member of the commission. − mr president, i very much welcome the successful conclusion of the negotiations on the 2014-2020 consumer programme. this might be one of the smaller mff programmes, amounting to around eur 189 million, but it will play an essential role as a catalyst for consumer policy at eu level by complementing and supporting national consumer policies. this will be achieved by financing a number of key actions under the consumer agenda – the eu strategy on consumer policy – and by laying the basis for meeting emerging challenges. the programme will focus on four specific objectives: consumer safety; consumer information and education, including support to consumer organisations; rights and redress; and last but not least, enforcement. i would like sincerely to thank parliament for its hard work and especially mr rochefort – the rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection – and the shadow rapporteurs for their personal commitment to this file. during the negotiations, parliament emphasised the special importance of the consumer programme, given the direct impact on citizens of consumer policy. i fully share your assessment. the actions supported by the programme will contribute towards strengthening the confidence of eu consumers in the single market and empowering them to play a key role in the economy. ultimately, a high level of consumer protection will contribute to our overarching priority of making markets work better and supporting growth. i am reassured to see that parliament, the council and the commission share to a very large extent the same view of the objectives of the programme, its beneficiaries, and the actions it should finance. all three institutions were largely in agreement as to the substance of the programme. the negotiations served to improve the text and led to a number of adjustments in order properly to integrate the political priorities identified by parliament.we have made sure that actions to be financed under this programme are targeting areas where intervention at eu level can truly make a difference and add value. these include actions to further promote cooperation in the field of product safety, better coordination in enforcement, co-financing of the european consumer centres and support for eu-level representation of consumer interests. the few sensitive issues identified during the negotiations related rather to management of the programme. here i think that the solution we have found together is a balanced one. it fully recognises the prerogative of parliament but also makes sure that the programme is manageable and that procedures remain suitable for its small size. the evaluation scheduled for 2017 will offer the opportunity to review the implementation of the programme, to discuss it together and to make adjustments if necessary. it is important to highlight the fact that, in these times of financial constraints and scarce resources, the commission sought to preserve as far as possible the programmeʼs budget as initially proposed. a cut amounted to only around 4 %, reflecting the importance that the commission, like parliament, attaches to this small but important programme. following these long but successful negotiations, our priority now is to implement the programme as rapidly and efficiently as possible. we have indeed already started the technical work for 2014, pending the formal adoption and publication of the legal base, which we hope will be completed by march. we very much look forward to working closely with parliament when implementing the programme over the next seven years, to the benefit of european consumers.
on behalf of the ppe group. this is the first report that i have had the pleasure of following on behalf of the european people's party, and which has now been concluded. i would therefore like to thank mr rochefort, the representatives of the other parliamentary groups and our assistants for all their work and cooperation on this dossier. i am very pleased with the work we have done and will therefore give my full support to this report to spend the allocation of eur 189 million for improving consumer protection through measures to safeguard safety, remedies, education and enforcement of consumer rights. in particular, i welcome the improvement that will occur in the consumer price comparison sites. the report also stresses that there should be an evaluation of this programme and a scrutinising of the way the funds are allocated and used. finally, this report sends an important message to our constituents that the european parliament puts consumer protection at the top of its agenda. i am proud to give my support to the adoption of this report and i urge everyone in this house to do the same.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe we should empower consumers. i am pleased that during the negotiations between the council and the commission, the european parliament insisted on the importance of initiatives to increase market transparency. in the future, consumers will be better placed to compare offers on products and services such as, for example, as we see in imco amendments nos 67 and 68. moreover, we should have the tools to identify shortcomings in order to address them in the interest of the consumer. it is essential that consumers are always in a position to exercise their rights under european laws as well as to have the right to defend their interests under the law. i am also pleased that, in carrying out this work, this parliament is aiming to help deliver the europe 2020 strategy.
we welcome the e-health action plan as we believe it is a useful tool for the health service both in the european union and in countries. the country, which for many years has been regarded as the mediterranean hospital for the important role it has always played in this sector, has a particular interest in this action plan. with the services the country offers, malta is becoming one of the popular choices for those seeking the highest quality healthcare. the health sector is developing at a very fast pace and needs all the support it can get to become more competitive. with technological investment, the new system should offer better standards for the health sector in the european context, providing best-in-class privacy and security. provisions should be made to ensure training and information so that everyone benefits from them in the most effective way. it is also necessary to take into account the fact that not every region in europe has the same level of technological advancement, and therefore we must ensure that there is an appropriate level everywhere in order to operate these systems effectively. to do this, we need to provide training in the regions that need it. the commission shall facilitate the european structural funds to help create a legal and administrative framework allowing the use of health-related data and information. i believe that this system can benefit everyone, including the elderly. this should help us to further combat the spread of disease in our society in the coming years, to the benefit of all, in particular the elderly. in my work in the european parliament i have always given due importance to the field of health, particularly as regards the needs of those suffering from the condition of dementia. we need to remember that access to a quality health system is a fundamental right of european citizens and therefore we believe that this e-health action programme should help our people to have a better life.
i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the important issue of social protection. the european welfare state, yes, the european way of life, is under severe pressure due to the economic crisis and the sharp cut in public spending on the one hand, and social challenges, such as an ageing population, on the other. this call to member states was therefore necessary to ensure that there is responsible and sustainable long-term funding of the social security system and that the european social model continues to be supported. this rule pays full attention to the special cases of self-employed persons. according to the 2012 data, the self-employed represent more than 15% of those who are self-employed in the european union. in the same year, there were 23 000 selfemployed persons in malta. we need to understand and recognise that the self-employed provide a form of work that helps to create jobs and reduce unemployment. especially for women, who in malta and the rest of europe are at a higher risk of becoming unemployed, the option of self-employment can help reduce poverty. on the other hand, we must also understand that in many cases of self-employed people, this option is not always their preferred one, but a necessity created by the lack of work opportunities or the lack of arrangements to make working hours more flexible and thus be able to cope with both employment and care work.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, today’s debate clearly underlines the strong symbolic meaning of the greek presidency. it is the presidency of the country which, according to various cassandras, was supposed to abandon the common currency or even to leave our union; the presidency of the country which came back, which demonstrated enormous courage, and whose people are working hard to return to economic prosperity. the greek presidency is symbolic proof of european resilience, political determination and strong european solidarity. most of us taking part in this debate clearly recognise that greece has covered a lot of ground, and today we see a clear comeback. however, we know there have been particularly difficult moments, and i want to thank prime minister samaras for recognising the fact that the commission was at all times on the greek side, always looking for the best possible solution, and that for the commission – as for this parliament, i know – a greek exit was never an option. why? because we believed in greece, in the greek people and in european cooperation and solidarity. i cannot agree with certain statements i have heard today to the effect that the euro is a primary cause of greek economic problems. just look around you. other countries outside the european union, such as iceland, and many eu member states not in the eurozone face the same strong need for consolidation. i believe the greek people know better: their support for the euro has been at a high level throughout the crisis and is even stronger today. concerning the other topics raised today, and especially the single resolution mechanism, i would like to reiterate the commission’s readiness to work closely with this house and with the council to find a workable, realistic solution in order to ensure that the intergovernmental dimension is kept to the absolute minimum that is politically necessary. we must work hard to get this done before the european elections, because we need to complete the banking union. if you will allow me a last remark, madam president, i will mention the need to restore the financing of the real economy. this topic was raised by several speakers, and i absolutely agree with them. we should make better use of the new instruments developed by the commission and the european investment bank and better use of the eu budget, which is a true investment budget for the entire union. we can do this by implementing the multiannual financial framework quickly. prime minister, the commission is prepared to cooperate with you and with the greek presidency and hopes to achieve much success during your semester. having heard the conviction with which you spoke about europe, and knowing your determination, i am convinced that your presidency will be a great success.
, president-in-office of the council. − madam president, first of all i want to thank everyone. i want to thank the european parliament and president schultz for all their help and for the dedication they have shown to my country, and i want to thank you for the remarks and comments you have all made today. everything will be taken into account. i was told that i have only five minutes to answer your questions, so allow me to be as precise and fast as possible. i need not comment on remarks which stem from an inflexible or isolationist view of europe. i am here to work for europe, not against it. i would like to thank mr farage for all the lessons about what democracy is and what democracy is not. i would have appreciated it even more if, besides all the lecturing, there could have been some hint of solidarity. i saw none. (applause) we know the intergovernmental approach. we know the community approach. now we are becoming aware of the humorist approach. i enjoy a good joke, but i do not take it seriously. some may not be happy that greece did not give in to the exit scenario – that greece indeed delivered. i am sorry about this, but i honestly did not want to damage anybody’s anti-european agenda. (applause)since i heard a mention of golden dawn – which only shows that there is indeed a very thin line between unmasked populism and disguised extremism – i want to say that the prolonged recession with the unprecedented unemployment level, the gradual failing of law and order and the presence of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants were the three sources of the problem. what we have been doing since this government took office, however, has been to address and correct all three of those sources simultaneously, and as soon as normality is restored in greece the golden dawn phenomenon will be marginalised. in the meantime we are doing everything to reveal who these people really are. we do not forget that the real target is to expose them, not to victimise them. i also heard specific mention of an investment in skouries in chalkidiki. the reference was to an investment which fully complies with all environmental regulations – national, local and european – and which is now inhibited because of illegal extremist activities. democracy and foreign direct investment are not going to be left to the mercy of extremists in greece. we want investments, and when they are in accordance with european environmental measures those investments will take place. they are absolutely necessary when a country has the unemployment level that we have in greece. about banking union and the single resolution mechanism: as i said at the beginning, we started work on this immediately. i too want a real banking union. i know that parliament is demanding radical changes in what has been agreed so far, and we have to listen sincerely to the concerns of the european parliament. the top priority for our presidency is the trialogue on the single resolution mechanism, where productive negotiation has already started. to be honest, however, these negotiations are going to be very challenging and difficult. i do not say ‘futile’, but i do say ‘difficult’. on growth, jobs and cohesion, everybody understands that the current level of unemployment in europe is politically unsustainable. we must explore ways to restore normal lending to the real economy: that is among the most ambitious priorities of our presidency. we have to remain focused on all the parameters that affect lending to business, and especially financing for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). as we see it, easing liquidity for europe’s smes, especially at the periphery and including young innovative companies, will help to boost employment for our youth and to create the conditions for sustainable and competitive growth. i appreciate what has been said about the initiative to reduce interest-rate differences, which joseph daul talked of, and about the need to avoid social dumping, as highlighted by mr swoboda. about the troika: i was very critical of some of the mistakes that were made at the beginning, during the first programme while i was in opposition, but even in opposition i was always trying to improve the programme and to push for reforms and deficit-cutting. i wish that i had that type of opposition in greece today. since then, we have corrected a series of mistakes and shortcomings, and now the programme has begun to yield results. as to how to deal with these problems in the future, we need to debate that seriously but, significantly, the fiscal problems we faced in greece are now in the past. we have already taken care of them. we are trying to conclude all these efforts in my country successfully but – please – there should be no ex-post political debate that makes our life more difficult. at the same time, i would say to some of the speakers today that each country has its own difficulties. sometimes they have to do with geography, so, on the question i was asked in relation to gdp about the 4 % defence spending which we still have, i would answer that the figure has indeed fallen – but please do not push me to suggest that you examine your own country’s geography versus my country’s geography. as far as cyprus is concerned, cyprus is in the middle of a negotiation to resolve 40 years of unlawful partition and foreign occupation. we want a just and viable solution as soon as possible, but i cannot make any public comments today regarding the on-going negotiations. irrespective of progress on the cyprus talks, however, all candidate countries should fully recognise and fully respect all the existing eu member states. this is not a political point and it is not about greece or cyprus: it is about our legal personality and our institutional integrity as a union. finally, i was asked about turkey. naturally, we follow the developments in that country very closely. despite many differences, both governments are trying to keep bilateral relations as calm as possible. we are trying to improve our cooperation on some neutral economic areas such as trade and tourism. we have improved our relationship in terms of combating terrorism. we also expect improvements in areas such as border control and the control of illegal immigration. we hope no internal problems in either country will be exported to the other country. this is what i wanted to say in the five minutes you gave me: i am sorry i went to ten. again, let me thank everybody for their presence here today. we greatly appreciate it, and we are doing what we can. as i said at the beginning, we are implementing what we have undertaken to implement and we are honouring our signature. we are delivering fruitful results, and we hope that greece, together with all the other european nations, will enter the next phase, which will be a phase not simply of recovery but of real growth, so that unemployment – our biggest concern – will fall in each one of our countries. thank you once again for allowing me to be here today. (applause)
in writing. greece is probably the most troubled country in the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the common fisheries policy, the common fisheries policy and the common fisheries policy. this also applies to millions of workers in other countries who are looking for work. it also counts for millions of citizens living in poverty or at risk of poverty. it is true that even in this parliament we have discussed these problems several times and have even taken steps and set targets, but this is not enough to win back the citizens' trust. to win back the trust of these one way there. we must work towards a social europe not just on paper, but a real social europe. a social europe means decent jobs for everyone who wants to work and can work. a social europe means a decent standard of living for all families. to achieve these goals, concrete steps need to be taken, as is being done in malta where we now have a government that is doing everything it can to create decent jobs and paying special attention to those at risk of poverty. i believe that greece has learned a lot from the experiences it has been going through, and i am therefore convinced that the greek presidency will work to move ever closer towards a truly social europe.
in writing. − it is obvious that we must always look beyond europe if we want europe to become economically stronger and help itself find a solution to the economic problems it is facing. therefore, any step taken to strengthen economic relations with third countries should have the support of all of us. but the citizens of these countries expect more from europe. they expect to enjoy the same rights as citizens in europe. they expect to start enjoying the same living standards as citizens in europe. it is therefore desirable that, in addition to the strengthening of economic relations, there should also be an improvement in political relations. we must not be satisfied with a paper agreement. we need to make sure that every agreement is followed up by the administrations of the countries involved, and this applies not only to economic relations, but also to political relations to make sure that all citizens benefit from these agreements.
in writing. − any step taken to spend tax money wisely is always a step in the right direction. to put it simply, when it comes to government-to-private contracts, it means not only value for money, but also consideration of the rights of workers and those who are expected to benefit from the contract. in malta this was a serious problem because we had contracts awarded to companies that had made the cheapest bid, but in reality they could do so because their plan was to get rich by exploiting their workers. this led to precarious work where workers of these same companies were not even paid the national minimum wage. in addition, they had no basic rights, such as leave and sick leave, or overtime pay for overworked hours. i would also like to mention the exploitation of immigrants not only in malta but also in other countries in europe. it is a well-known secret that companies that are given government contracts without any scruples are served by the misfortunes of these immigrants. it is worth noting that the maltese government, as it was entrusted with the running of the country last march, took immediate steps to put an end to these abuses and exploitation of workers once and for all. i hope that governments in other countries will take similar steps.
the maltese people have worked hard to get malta into the european union. we are proud of it. proud to be maltese and proud to be european. we are a people who have been chosen to work for our rights and know what our obligations and duties are. this subject has been controversial. the majority of maltese neither agreed nor wanted the sale of our citizenship. i and others who spoke out against this scheme were called traitors. we are one people, one calibre, and this scheme is not representative of us. we never got there! but as a representative of the maltese people, i cannot remain closed-minded. it is my duty to speak out and no political attack will stop me. we are talking about the sale of citizenship that is being done with almost no strings attached and no requirement for the person to stay in the country but with all the benefits that citizenship brings. this parliament is also our parliament, the maltese parliament. we are elected by the people to represent them. let's be clear: our rights are not all for sale! the sale of citizenship is reduced by its true value and it threatens and destroys the rights of each and every one of us. as vice-president reding said, being a citizen of a country means having a full and deep connection with that country. now, a person can become a maltese and european citizen without that link to the union. this goes against the values, trust and solidarity which are the foundation of the union and its future. we are not diminishing the concept of sovereignty; is because we believe in the european project that we want a europe built on strong rights. i would like to conclude by making another call for consensus: there is still time to reform this scheme. (the president agreed to answer the question referred for a preliminary ruling (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to blue paper. thank you very much, i thank mr melo for asking me this question. the title of this resolution is on the sale of citizenship: the sale of maltese citizenship and the scheme the socialist government is proposing is not limited or is not a genuine link to the investment. it is on this that i have made my intervention, it is on this that the resolution we are going to vote on tomorrow will focus.
among other things, this motion before us speaks of european values. yes, we are talking about core values that unite us as europeans, we are talking about mutual solidarity between member states, we are talking about respect for the sovereignty of all member states in areas of national competence. we need to concentrate on the true principle of citizenship and to do this we must avoid any prejudice towards any one member state. this is a moment that requires all of us to be mature and serious and therefore let us be prudent. it is not fair to concentrate on one member state. if that were to happen, the game would be dangerous and would no longer be in the common european interest. we are also setting a precedent on the sovereignty of the member states. as europeans we must make a choice between a european economy that opens up to the rest of the world or a european economy that shuts itself off. we must have the courage to open the doors to those who want to invest in europe; investment that grows economies and creates jobs. it is satisfying to see a country like malta, which is economically successful, while not burdening the less successful with more taxes. in malta as a country we believe in sincere solidarity. we have always shown this with facts in the case of irregular migration. we should always do so. let us open the discussion but not open the doors to opportunities that bring benefits, prosperity and economic growth, and this in the context of european values.
we have a debate before us which is not a debate against the maltese people, nor is it a debate against the maltese government, it is a debate which speaks of a scheme being introduced in countries. malta, now a member of the european union, has for a number of years been part of schengen, part of the euro area and is proud of the obligations we also have towards the european union and the duties that membership is supposed to bring with it. and so we don't want you to now because of this evil scheme start to suspect us. i want you to trust him when he comes to malta or gozo with a passport and not to have suspicions about the person carrying a maltese passport. and that is why i am saying today that we still have a chance to hear from the maltese government about this consensus. i was pleased to hear my colleague from the socialist party, the green party, the communist party, the people's party. you have consent here to the maltese government i say to listen and change the scheme and make it an investment one. because i agree with everything that was said here tonight, including by my socialist party colleague göncz, who said that european citizenship is not for sale. so let's put it all together, let's find common rules to ensure that neither today's nor tomorrow's governments sell european citizenship in this way. let's make guidelines, let's see what needs to be done to see together how best to defend european citizenship. and there has to be a real link, there has to be a real connection for you to get a passport. if you entrust me, and my country, malta and gozo, with the keys to your house, which is now our house, i cannot go and take that key and pass it on to everyone, without your permission, without the council's permission, without the commission's permission! i regret that countries have not communicated with the commission, the member states or this parliament, but this is a scheme and it is not against any government or the maltese people. (the president agreed to answer the question referred for a preliminary ruling (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question for the blue paper. i am sorry to ask a question to a colleague from the same country, but i cannot help but ask him since he has referred to the consensus on this scheme confirms, the honourable member, that the maltese socialist government, led by prime minister dr joseph muscat, has not only consulted widely with all the social groups in our country but also with the opposition led by the leader of the opposition who my colleague, or david casa, represents from the same party? so open is the maltese socialist government to the discussion on this scheme!
answer to blue paper. i, mr president, just heard commissioner viviane reding today making comments outside, quoted even in the newspapers, where she said she did not know of any consultation with the commission and, to her knowledge, no consultation had been made with the member states. i ask my colleague from the socialist party to check his facts because if he has a problem with this, i think he should take it up with commissioner reding and not with me.
mr president, i am going to speak in english, as madame reding, the commissioner, chose that language in which to address us. i followed her with very keen interest. why? because she made a legal argument. if you take away all the political rhetoric, you will realise that her main items of objection are legal. she accepted the fact that citizenship is subject to national jurisdiction, but she also said that according to the maastricht treaty – and she is right – there has to be a direct link. in other words, the objection is not whether money is paid or not. the objection is whether there is a direct link or not. let us crystallise the problem and not try and make a scapegoat of the smallest country in the european union.
i will not go into the merits of the case because i do not agree with the fact that a decision of the democratically elected maltese parliament is coming to the scrutiny and vote of another parliament on an internal matter. as dr simon busuttil himself said in this parliament, it is a dangerous precedent, the european parliament starts interfering in the internal affairs of the member states. i have no doubt that none of my colleagues in the house will accept that it be done to their country. the granting of citizenship has been and is carried out by other member states; is a fundamental right of each member state. the methodology, the reason for the grant, is not a matter for this parliament, and therefore i find that this parliament is going beyond its competence. i ask you: why was this debate not held when other member states entered similar schemes? it's all about money. why was there no question of european values at that time? why now with malta: the smallest member country? we remind you that malta is a small country but has the same rights as any other state and it is unacceptable to interfere with its sovereignty as well. i would remind those who are instigating this debate that malta is no longer a colony and those who are using this parliament to humiliate malta, for partisan political purposes, shame on them!
i have a point of order because at the beginning of this debate, when you spoke and explained what this debate is about, you said that this is a debate on malta. in fact this is a debate on citizenship, and so i want to clarify what you said and that is why i made this point of order; because although i too wanted to speak in this debate, i was not given the chance. i would also like to say, to clarify what you have said because this is a debate on citizenship, that there is no problem - indeed we want a healthy debate on citizenship in the european union, bearing in mind that there is national sovereignty - but we cannot capture a country and isolate it when there are other countries with similar schemes and initiatives, and therefore i invite this house, mr president, to, firstly, recognize that this is a debate on citizenship, and secondly i also urge this house to have a reasonable approach to the whole debate we have before us.
in writing. − promoting competitiveness through our industries is a crucial pillar to get back on track with the economy in the eu’s member states. at the same time, however, i voted against elements in the proposal that call for a harmonised company tax system across the eu, since it should be left to the member states to develop policies on taxation.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because i could never accept that reference to malta should remain in the citizenship motion in the european parliament. in fact i even voted to remove all reference to malta from this motion. with today's vote i voted in favour of malta. i acknowledge and appreciate the fact that the socialist and democratic group tabled amendments to remove malta from the joint motion for a resolution. i regret that the opposition in countries used this parliament to try to gain political advantage through this motion. the purpose of this parliament is to discuss matters of interest to citizens, not to be used by some members for partisan purposes. i would like to clarify that any objection to discussing citizenship at european level should be removed. what is worrying is that a debate suddenly arises because a country - in this case malta - has started an investment initiative whose proceeds will go to benefit citizens, with direct investment in education, research, health and the environment among others.
in writing. − i voted wholeheartedly against this joint motion for a resolution on citizenship for sale, because i am convinced that the european union, as an actor that promotes the values of european solidarity, cooperation and mutuality, should not restrict or focus on one member state’s proposal, when similar schemes already exist within the eu. why should the eu erect barriers to a member state that is striving to find ways to help its economy prosper without burdening its citizens? malta has done its duty towards the eu’s values and will continue to do so. when it came to issues such as immigration, malta showed solidarity and provided help. in return, this resolution is an act against giving malta the opportunity to become more prosperous and competitive. this case should not be considered or raised to serve as a precedent in the future as it might be dangerous and cause controversies. the eu is about co-operation and respect, and such a resolution is against these values among many others. thus, it is an unjust obstacle to malta’s economic development and will only serve to create an unfair and untrue bad image of malta that could have negative implications on its economy in the future.
in writing. − the fact that accession negotiations between the eu and serbia will soon start is a step in the right direction. at the same time efforts on combating child poverty and standing up to violent groups attacking lgbti people is essential. it needs to be clear that discrimination, on whatever grounds, is unacceptable.
in writing. − it is obvious that when a country has to take drastic measures to meet serious economic and financial problems, there are repercussions that affect the lives of millions of citizens. a number of european countries are currently in this situation and a significant number of families are ending up homeless because they have lost their jobs and therefore literally have no money to pay rent. it is unfortunate and a bit hurtful to see people sleeping outside in major european cities. but this problem is not limited to those who sleep outside. it is also about those who are given shelter in some home or other, and have to accept this shelter because they cannot do otherwise, lest they end up sleeping outdoors. the right to housing is not just a roof over your head. it means having a decent home to live in, where you can live without relying on the mercy of a landlord. it is therefore appropriate that this problem is being raised in the european parliament and it is also appropriate to call for a european strategy to address this problem. my appeal is to understand the problem and start addressing it today before tomorrow.
i note and welcome the agreement and understanding reached between the maltese government led by prime minister joseph muscat and the european commission on the citizenship by investment scheme which the maltese authorities have called for. there were no major differences between malta's position and that of the european commission and there was an immediate deadlock. this is a shocking achievement. this is a satisfactory agreement for all. over the last few weeks there has been a lot of misinformation about this scheme. this was the fault of certain members of this parliament who preferred to hinder their country for partisan political gain, rather than working for consensus. there were those who wanted to eliminate this scheme. malta is not the only country with such a scheme. other investment citizenship schemes exist in other eu member states. the main stakeholders in the country agree with this programme, the european commission agrees as well as the people of malta. this scheme will benefit the people of malta, as well as the european union. the agreement also shows that the attack on malta in last month's plenary session was extreme, and above all unnecessary.
this report sends a clear and important message to our societies that discrimination against lgbti people is unacceptable. in recent months, as the spokesperson for my group on this report along with ms lunacek and other colleagues, we have been engaged in useful discussions to present a balanced document that makes each of us proud of our contribution. the report is in line with the role and competence of the european union, respects the principle of subsidiarity and in no way infringes the right of each member state to legislate on matters which are within its national competence. a quick look at what does not make this report: no new laws, no country will be obliged to legislate on some new form of family, no new special privileges, no provisions on positive discrimination in favour of one sector or another, it will not turn the world upside down. however, what this report will do is to begin the road to full equality for all. there have been reports against reports that all say there is discrimination against lgbti people. our call to the commission is to create a roadmap, a strategy, an action plan to tackle discrimination. i will therefore give my support to the calls and appeals made in this report and encourage everyone to do the same. thank you.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report because it is important that greenland be included in the kimberly process certification scheme that works to stop the illicit trade of the diamonds used to fuel conflicts.
in writing. - the kimberley process is an important process that helps in combatting the spread of blood diamonds into commerce. this report asks for the inclusion of greenland in the scheme in order to curtail such abuse. i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - this report is about greenland and the kimberly process. it is important that greenland participates in the kimberly process certification scheme, which works to stop the illicit trade in diamonds used to fuel conflict.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report because it is important that greenland participate in the kimberly process certification scheme that works to stop the illicit trade of diamonds used to fuel conflict.
in writing. - although greenland has a mining industry, the fact that it is not a country in its own right renders it unattractive to investment in the said industry. in light of this, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the proposal extends the deadline for migration to the sepa area till this aguust. if this does not occur, there could be problems for consumer banking. to this end, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this dossier is a step in the right direction as it provides for an agreement that ensures a harmonised safety regime for fishing vessels and fair competition.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report because this agreement and its provisions will ensure a harmonised safety regime for fishing vessels and fair competition.
in writing. - this agreement will allow the torremolinos convention to enter into force and set up a harmonised regime for fishing vessels longer than 24 metres. to this end, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - climate change and human negligence also cause natural disasters. it is important that better prevention is ensured but also that citizens are well informed about the risks, and that member states are encouraged to create incentives for citizens to insure themselves. cooperation between member states in this regard can be improved. also, it is important that local authorities are involved in matters of city planning and urban development, to improve the management of natural disasters.
in writing. - i support this report. it is important that eu law be applied consistently among the member states and this improves both the credibility and transparency of the eu institutions.
in writing. - for obvious reasons, including the economic and financial problems in several countries, which have led to a severe shortage of decent work in these same countries, an increasing number of european citizens, especially young people, are seeking a better future in another eu country. there are also other reasons among them educational and cultural reasons. it is therefore important to do everything possible to make it easier for citizens who want to live in another country, whether for a short or long term, to do so and not to face excessive bureaucracy. i believe that by doing so, we are also sending a clear message to all citizens that the european union is doing its best to help every citizen. this message is needed today more than ever, because a large number of citizens do not look at the european union with a positive lens, and this is because of the austerity measures their governments have had to take because of the economic and financial problems they have found themselves in. these austerity measures have failed and caused great suffering to thousands of citizens and therefore steps to help them find a better future cannot but convey a positive message even if we are not always getting everything they want.
in writing. - this agreement will ensure that public documents throughout europe are simplified, allowing for greater access and also allowing for easier mobility. i have voted in favour as i believe these are good aims to achieve in order to have a better integration process.
in writing. - i have voted in favor of this report because it is important that the symbols and phrases on the packaging and information sheets of hazardous chemical substances and mixtures be brought up to date in order to provide citizens with a proper level of protection if these substances or mixtures are present in their work environment.
in writing. - this report concerns the regulation that requires companies to appropriately classify hazardous chemicals before placement in the market. i believe that such labelling is important for the consumer, therefore i have voted in favour.
in writing. - the fair, balanced agreement reached on collective management of rights is to be welcomed. this agreement promotes new requirements of transparency and governance for the management of copyright. this means a guarantee for fair remuneration to artists. it is imperative that artists are given due recognition for their work, hence the creation of a model for multi-territorial licensing for online rights for music works is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - i supported this report because there is a need for a legal framework that provides for rules that ensure better governance and greater transparency of all collecting societies and also facilitates the multi-territorial licensing of the rights of authors in their musical works by collecting societies representing authors.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report as it manages to achieve balanced agreements between transparency, governance and adequate compensation to musicians for their music.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report as i believe that all forms of illegality and unfair practices in the financial world need to be properly sanctioned.
in writing. - the instrument which is being presented by means of this dossier is not only necessary but also complementary to the connecting europe facility to identify the needs for investments in energy infrastructures, in view of achieving the internal energy market. this regulation intends to make more transparent projected demand and available supply.
in writing. - it is necessary that the commission be regularly informed of investment projects in eu energy infrastructure. the bi-annual cross-sector analysis that is requested will help identify potential future demand and supply gaps and other potential obstacles to investment. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - this is a good report that includes in it sound proposal for the creation of good investment in energy projects. to this end, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - it is not in the best interest of the member states to change the composition of the court of auditors and remove the concept of one auditor per member state. therefore i abstained.
in writing. - whilst the report is a very valid one, i abstained on the vote as i do not agree with the idea of having to change the composition of the court and subsequent removal of one auditor per member state.
in writing. - while there has been much progress in these areas and the reduction of regulatory and administrative burdens in the eu, a lot of work remains to be done. this report will take into account the new environment created by the lisbon treaty and will bring the agreement up-to-date. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - we believe that such a report is a good means of ensuring better lawmaking and will also manage to cut the regulatory burden and social costs of legislative proposals. to this end, i have voted in favour of the report.
i voted in favour with conviction, because i believe, and not out of convenience. nor by hypocrisy. what we believe in the european parliament, we believe in countries too. no country can be called democratic if it has citizens who are discriminated against. i take this opportunity to mention the historic decision taken by the maltese labour government led by prime minister joseph muscat in the case of joanne cassar, the woman who had to go to the european court of human rights to try to get what the previous government was depriving her of namely the procedures from the marriage register to be able to marry according to her choice. but the current government, as it was elected less than a year ago not only recognised what was rightfully its enemy, but even honoured it by awarding it the republic day medal for its courage and perseverance. i would like to appeal to governments to be brave to believe, to also be consistent with what they believe.
it is unacceptable that in the 21st century we are still debating whether people of different sexual orientations should be treated in the same way as so-called 'normal' people. during this week, extremist forces lobbied relentlessly to stop the granting of rights to homosexual persons. while respecting the views of all, we must ensure that, as the european union, everyone who suffers from any form of discrimination is afforded the necessary protection. a secular union such as the european union should set an example to the rest of the world of fairness and justice towards every sector of society. it is therefore gratifying to see that governments in europe, such as the maltese government, are moving along this line, that everyone can benefit from the same rights. in view of all this, i therefore voted in favour of this lunacek report with absolute conviction.
in writing. - i support this report because it is dedicated to protecting citizens from unfair commercial practices and helping them to become more confident with regard to internal market transactions.
in writing. - the unfair commercial practices directive is an important directive in light of the functioning of the internal market. this report serves well the aim of implementing this directive, therefore i have voted in favour of the directive.
in writing. - it is essential that all member states have efficient and independent justice systems that can apply eu law consistently, contribute to economic growth and boost competitiveness. this is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the zwiefka report provides an eu justice scoreboard that is quite valuable in ensuring better picture of the situation regarding justice in member states. to this end, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i come from the sphere of local politics, where in recent years a democratic system of regions has also been developed. i believe that if we want to have an efficient future with the best use of resources, the regions themselves can be a catalyst to be producers and not just consumers of energy. this is definitely beneficial for european goals including those aiming at quality jobs and environmental protection.
in writing. - smart grids are vital in ensuring a more efficient energy supply and security. the importance of such grids is therefore very big and to this end i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of small agricultural holdings report as i believe that small agricultural holdings should be given the adequate importance that they need.
in writing. - the development of the digital single market and e-commerce are a step in the right direction. it is to be noted that if the aim is to develop a sustainable and innovative eu-wide e-parcel delivery system to the benefit of consumers, workers and businesses, it is imperative for there to be consumer protection, responsible employment policies and quality services.
in writing. - the internet economy and e-commerce in particular are essential to the eu economy. i support this report and its call for the removal of all major obstacles towards the development of an integrated market for parcel delivery that would help the member states harness the full potential of e-commerce and its economic benefits.
in writing. - integrated parcel deliveries are becoming increasingly important in the context of an internal market. for this reason i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i have voted against this report as i believe that while the steel industry is an important part of the european industry, such focus should be done on all industry levels.
every step taken to combat discrimination is necessary and even necessary. i cannot fail to mention the abuses that have been perpetrated, not only against women, but also against children, infants and even newborns, in the case of illegal immigration from countries in africa to europe. every year, thousands of illegal immigrants fall victim to unscrupulous people who not only steal their money but also put their lives in danger by sending them packed onto small boats to europe. i have seen it many times, not only in the newspapers, but also in the news, even on television. it is not the first time that they have ended up drowning in the mediterranean, so much so that this sea, even in this parliament, is called a grave. given all that these immigrants have been through, it is appropriate to take care that they are not also abused and discriminated against. it is appropriate to take care that for whatever reason they end up victims of organised crime and even exploited. and so, mr president, the need for burden sharing is also mandatory vis-à-vis those countries which are not doing so.
in writing. - it is a well-known fact that undocumented women face bigger hardships than males. the plight of such women has to be adequately tackled. to this end, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - any step taken to reduce or eliminate exploitation of workers is always a step in the right direction. more and more we are living in a time where the exploitation of workers can be the target of those who are not afraid to take advantage of their difficult situations to become rich overnight. in a number of european union countries, many workers are facing serious problems, both because of a lack of work and because of conditions that are unacceptable in today's world. it is therefore obvious that we have thousands of workers, particularly young people, who, yes, take advantage of the opportunities offered by the european union to at least try to seek a better future in another member country of the european union, even if only temporarily. presently we have thousands, if not millions, of young people facing the problems you mentioned. it is therefore very important to ensure that as many as possible are not taking advantage to exploit those young workers, and even other workers, who, even if for a short period, try to help themselves and their families by taking up seasonal employment.
in writing. - this report ushers in an agreement on the first post-treaty of lisbon instrument on legal migration. this package is intended to reach agreement on a first legal migration instrument directed at low-skilled/low paid employment. such activities are vital in order to ensure that rights are safeguarded. to this end, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report concerns the repeal of regulation 827/2004 which prohibited the importation of this kind of tuna from bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone. the iccat has acknowledged the efforts made by these countries to improve their conservation levels. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - partnership agreements on fisheries are very important. the protocol between the eu and gabon is a step forward.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the renewal of the protocol between the eu and the gabonese republic on fisheries. the new protocol aims to give european vessels the opportunity to fish in the waters of the gabonese republic, within the limits of the available surplus, in accordance with the available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the two sides also aim to improve the periodic monitoring of catches in order to preserve the stock and protect tuna and sea health. the annual financial contribution paid by the european union to gabon for the fishing of tuna and other migratory species is eur 1 350 000.
in writing. - fishery partnership agreements are an important tool to encourage sustainable utilisation of maritime resources. for this reason, i support the european parliament in consenting to sign the protocol between the eu and gabon.
in writing. - i have voted for this report as it provides a good deal for the eu in its negotiations with gabon on the new fisheries protocol.
in writing. - as shadow rapporteur for the socialist and democrat group on the terho report, i am very satisfied with the outcome of this vote. i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the valuable work he has done on this report. the subject of this report is something that we as a union must take with a certain seriousness. climate change coupled with human negligence is creating more disasters than ever before. just look at england and see how parts of it are still submerged after the floods of more than a month ago! the issue of insurance against these types of disasters therefore takes on greater relevance. it is just not fair to move towards a 'one size fits all' solution. the geographical and even economic realities of the union do not allow for a single insurance system. this does not mean, however, that nothing can be done. this report recommends greater access to information between member states and even more enforcement of current laws to ensure that more people protect themselves through insurance. we also need to see that the moral hazard scenario is reduced as much as possible. in view of all this, i can say that i am very satisfied with the voting and the final report as it stands.
in writing. - the appointment of ms lautenschläger as vice chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank is definitely a step in the right direction. in line with parliament’s position for more women on boards and more women in higher positions of authority, this appointment provides for role models in such important positions.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the appointment of mrs sabine lautenschlager, as she has shown remarkable competence in order to be able to handle this appointment.
in writing. - switzerland is an important economic partner of the european union and international cooperation regarding anti-competitive practices is necessary for the regulation of trade and foreign investment. i therefore support this report for a cooperative agreement between switzerland and the european union.
in writing. - the agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation on cooperation of competition laws is a very important agreement that ensures the completion of the single market. to this end, i have voted in favour of this report
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this resolution because the consistent enforcement of competition policy is a critical part of addressing anti-competitive practices that hinder cross-border trade.
in writing. - this treaty aims to regulate the global arms trade and combat illicit trade in arms. this report aims at encouraging the member states to implement the un treaty on this issue in order to develop responsible corporate behaviour. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the arms trade treaty (att) is a major step forward. with around 740 000 men, women and children dying every year because of illegal and poorly regulated arms trade, we need to combat this on a global level. the eu should play a leading role in promoting the treaty and ensuring that no more weapons get through to unstable regions and fall in the hands of terrorists. member states should therefore ratify this as soon as possible. even though ammunition and certain types of weapons are not yet within the scope of the treaty, this is an important step, as it will clearly prohibit transfer of arms in cases where a un arms embargo is in place for instance, or when there are known risks of genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. global recognition of the illegality of arms trade in this case is crucial, and it is in the interest of all citizens around the world that the att will be internationally ratified.
in writing. - this document deals with how eu small enterprises will be able to make their case to stop unfair competition from third countries and shorten the time to investigate alleged dumping. it also dealt with the strengthening of the eu's tool for defending trade against dumped or subsidised imports. eu small enterprises are the backbone of eu economies. these companies therefore need not only support, but also aid, while also keeping in mind the need to protect the consumer.
in writing. - the commission's proposal to give a new impetus to the economy is to modernise the regulations against dumped and subsidised imports for non-eu countries. efficiency, reduction of the threat of retaliation, transparency and predictability are excellent and necessary objectives to address the new challenges of trade. the aim is therefore, in addition to improving the directives for international trade, to lay the foundations for a new and more efficient trade policy.
in writing. - there is a need to modernise both the anti-dumping and the anti-subsidy regulations currently in place in order to increase transparency and predictability as well as maintain public trust. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the eu’s trade defence is based on the wto ,which allows member states to address unfair practices and dumping and restore a level playing field. the report says that in the current economic conditions the eu should not grant any more unilaterally favourable conditions. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in view of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december 2009 and the redistribution of powers it introduces, a re-alignment of eu legislation is needed to establish a community control system that ensures all parties comply with the rules of the common fisheries policy. for this reason, i have voted in favor of the amendment of council regulation number 1224/2009.
in writing. - the common fisheries policy is an important instrument for the protection of our seas. this report is an important one that makes sure that the cfp is adequate in its protection of all stakeholders. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report is a step in the right direction. summing up the negotiations with the council, it is good that regulatory obligations for manufacturers are going to be simplified. it is important that legislation on the safety of products is harmonised and clarified, to ensure that products are in compliance before they are made available on the eu market. this is necessary in the framework of consumer protection.
in writing. - i support this report, which intends to modify a proposal of the european commission altering directive 94/9/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and protective systems intended for use in a potentially explosive atmosphere. this it is an important step towards the completion of the eu single market.
in writing. - this directive sets out essential requirements before entering the eu market. the new legislative framework was adopted to remedy shortcomings in existing harmonisations legislation in order to complete the single market. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i support this report, which calls for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility. this directive is part of a package, aligning nine product directives to the new legislative framework created in 2008, which improves consistency of application of european union law in line with the changes brought in by the lisbon treaty and increases the confidence of both producers and consumers.
today, the european parliament voted on one of the most important reports of this legislation. today's vote is a victory for all citizens and consumers of the european union, because it will have a direct impact on their lives. this is due to the hard work of this institution despite often being considered as far away from the everyday life of the people. the report on passenger rights will be seen as a tool to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century relating to air traffic and which can help to protect passenger rights vis-à-vis large airlines. in a liberalised european market, where both the number of flights and the number of passengers are increasing, we need to ensure that passengers' rights are guaranteed. with regard to the handling of complaints, it is important to introduce a complaints procedure with a clear time limit and precise identification of the new role of the entity to be established for the handling of complaints. in baggage allowances, passengers shall have the right to carry in the cabin at no cost essential personal items which also include airport purchases in addition to the maximum allowance for baggage. the improvements include more transparent information, more accessible contact points at the airport and an easier complaints procedure and strengthening in the enforcement system. the conditions on baggage rules have been better harmonised and it will no longer be possible to refuse a passenger to board a return journey because the passenger missed the initial journey. our duty as members of the european parliament was to ensure a coherent perspective by providing a clear understanding of citizens' rights. this is without allowing citizens in situations where the airline companies take advantage of their position.
in writing. - lack of information, lack of compensation, and lack of assistance to air passengers are amongst the main concerns of consumers in their (inter)national travels. it is important that these concerns have now finally been tackled by the proposed regulation. on the one hand, this provides legal certainty for both travellers and airlines, but more importantly, it strengthens the rights of passengers and protects them against unfair practices. people who face long delays, for instance, will enjoy the same right to compensation as when a flight is cancelled. also, there will be more clarity on what kind of hand luggage can be carried on board and, overall, passengers can expect more assistance in case of delays and cancellations. we need this kind of comprehensive approach when it comes to the rights of citizens when travelling in the eu, and therefore i gladly voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - disparities between national insolvency laws deter companies that engage in cross-border activities and can act as a barrier to trade. the report identifies areas where further harmonisation would be beneficial and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. - insolvency is an important aspect of commercial law. without proper insolvency proceedings, the internal market will not be able to function in an adequate way. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank you for putting female genital mutilation (fgm) on the agenda today. no girl should ever have to experience this traumatic breach of her rights. i would also like to thank the parliament and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for their commitment to combatting violence against women, and fgm in particular. every day in europe, women are raped or beaten, or die, just because they are women. this is not acceptable and nor is the fact that millions of young women are still subjected to genital mutilation every year. they risk death, and if they survive their injury they face the prospect of disability and very risky childbirth. the european union will continue to campaign for the rights and empowerment of women in all contexts by fighting gender-based violence and supporting relevant initiatives against this abhorrent crime. the commission will continue developing targeted and consistent initiatives to support member states in achieving tangible results in eradicating all forms of violence against women – making full use of european union competences. as far as non-member states are concerned, women’s and girls’ rights form an integral part of the commission’s deliberations when it comes to assessing what type of budget support is appropriate in a third country. but it does not end with this: it does not end simply with money. our efforts are about building global consensus. all recent european union trade agreements have been linked to the relevant political framework agreement governing the union’s overall relations with third countries, or incorporated into broader association agreements, and these framework or association agreements include a clause establishing respect for human rights as an essential element underpinning relations, as well as a comprehensive cooperation pillar establishing channels for dialogue on a broad range of issues. honourable members, let us continue our close cooperation on this matter and let us use every opportunity to make our case. i will consult my colleague commissioner reding concerning all useful suggestions, including the one made by ms hall earlier today.
in writing. – notwithstanding all the efforts to eliminate female genital mutilation, the practice is still going on. it is so ingrained in particular regions that its elimination is a real challenge. i do not think that this elimination can be effected through the passage of laws. what is involved is a mentality – a tradition, a belief – which has to be challenged through explanation and education.
in writing. - i voted against this report as i believe that the targets set out in it are too ambitious and unrealistic. any european framework for climate and energy should have flexible targets that allow member states to reach them as they deem fit.
in writing. - further harmonisation of these procedures and rules is essential for the completion of the internal market in financial services. i support this proposal which calls for the establishment of uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the single resolution mechanism (srm). i believe there is a clear need for an srm in order to achieve a stable and strong banking union.
in writing. - labelling is important and consumers have a right to know. the places of birth, rearing and slaughter should be indicated on food labels in order to provide consumers with accurate information on the origin of meat, and allow them to obtain a more comprehensive picture of the animal welfare standards and environmental impact associated with a given meat product. the commission should therefore revise its implementing regulation to improve the provision of information to consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i believe that correct labelling is important in terms of allowing consumers to make informed choices about frozen meat.
in writing. - applying such generalised tariff preferences would permit better internal market coordination. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution
in writing. - the problem of greenhouse gases emissions must be tackled very seriously in order to improve our environment. to that end, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - it is crucial to find a political solution that respects the will of the people in ukraine. the ukrainian people should be able to decide on their own future. the eu should develop a clear and credible perspective for its cooperation with ukraine.
in writing. - the situation in ukraine is one of great concern. the ukrainian government is not listening to the voices of its people. this resolution asks the ukrainian government to listen to its people and to act in a democratic manner. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - what has happened in syria over the past three years is having very serious effects on the thousands of syrian citizens who have been saved from death trying to flee their country. some of them are succeeding with the result that today we have almost two and a half million syrian refugees seeking refuge in another country. among them are more than a million children. surely what millions of syrian children have been through and are going through will condition them for the rest of their lives. in malta we are experiencing some of the consequences of these very children because not a small number of syrians ended up in our country when they were trying to cross to europe by sea, that is, on a boat. just yesterday, on 5 february 2014, maltese newspapers reported that a six-year-old boy who had ended up in malta after losing his parents and two brothers in the lampedusa tragedy last october, was leaving today to join his uncle's family in egypt. in malta, this boy was healed, but it is clear that the consequences of his trauma will be conditioning his life. it would be appropriate to look at what we can do to help these children throughout their lives.
in writing. - the current situation in syria is a human tragedy which must be stopped as soon as possible. we urge all parties involved to sit down and resolve this conflict without any further loss of life.
in writing. - what is happening not only in egypt, but also in libya and to some extent in tunisia, is not what we expected as a result of the arab spring. we cannot say that no progress has been made in these countries towards democracy, but i am afraid that the steps are now waiting rather than the march is being made. the majority of citizens in these countries many of whom were looking forward to a democracy similar to the one we enjoy in europe are seeing their hopes diminish day by day. this is particularly true of what is happening in egypt where a new constitution was recently approved, a constitution that is certainly not a typical example of true democracy. we must follow all that is happening and do our best to ensure that the march towards democracy in these countries does not stop, but we must make it clear that we are talking about real democracy and not some kind of dictatorship shrouded in the 'beautiful words' of democracy.
in writing. - i believe that the situation in egypt needs to be legitimised by democratic means. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - good neighbourly relations and peace and stability in common neighbouring countries are in the interests of both russia and the eu. an open, frank and results-oriented dialogue about the crises in these countries should be developed, addressing, in particular, frozen conflicts, the need to strengthen security and stability, support for the territorial integrity of the countries concerned and the establishment of joint crisis-management mechanisms.
in writing. - this resolution follows the intended summit, which was to have taken place in late january and which was reduced to a three-hour meeting. i believe that the eu and russia should find ways to collaborate effectively.
in writing. - it is important that the eu keep providing prospects for bosnia and herzegovina. however, the integration process needs to be accompanied by the appropriate reforms. the important sejdić-finci ruling by the echr, condemning discrimination of minorities at several levels of government, needs to be properly implemented. the message has to be that cooperation with and acknowledgement of the rights of minorities, is a condition for continuing the integration process. with a malfunctioning state and overall lack of vision for the future, bosnia and herzegovina’s citizens are in need of efficient and forward-looking reforms.
in writing. - real progress on justice, democracy and human-rights issues will be best served if the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is able to open negotiations – including specifically on these chapters – with the eu. to that end, i voted in favour of the resolution calling for negotiations to be opened.
in writing. - montenegro is well on its way to becoming an eu member state. this resolution highlights progress with montenegro’s accession programme, as well as the problems encountered thus far. i voted in favour of it.
zero tolerance for violence against women. this is the way forward and i hope that this parliament will not have to discuss violence against women again. i would mention that a private member's bill on female genital mutilation, forced marriages and even enforced sterilization was also introduced in the maltese parliament. this shows the commitment also in countries on this issue. every eleven seconds a case of female genital mutilation occurs worldwide, the who estimates that around 140 million girls or women worldwide undergo this procedure every year. of these, an estimated 110 million are from africa. it is therefore more relevant for european countries with an influx of immigrants to see that they have the laws in place. mr president, i take this opportunity to appeal to this parliament and also to the european commission for adequate studies. i also called for this resolution to be followed by a call for 2016 to be the european year to end violence against women. unfortunately not like this year. this year doesn't even have a theme.
in writing. - female genital mutilation is a brutal form of violence against women and girls that constitutes a violation of their fundamental rights and violates the principles set out in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i voted in full support of the resolution on the elimination of female genital mutilation.
in writing. - female genital mutilation (fgm) is a barbarian practice, which inflicts unbearable pain and humiliation on the women forced to undergo it. i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that fgm has no place in this day and age.
in writing. - this resolution invites member states to further develop national strategies to stimulate inland waterway transport, taking into account the european action programme, and to encourage regional, local and port authorities to do likewise. high quality infrastructure is important as a condition for developing inland waterway transport and inland ports, and integrating them into the trans-european transport network. the resolution also emphasises member states’ responsibility for providing adequate and reliable infrastructure and ensuring regular maintenance so as to preserve good navigation status, with a view to ensuring the role of inland waterway transport as a reliable and cost-effective mode of transport.
in writing. - the commission's initiative to update and renew the naiades programme by 2020 underlines the importance of high-quality infrastructure as a condition for developing and integrating transeuropean transport. waterborne transport is energy efficient and contributes to the achievement of the objectives of a low-carbon economy as set out in the white paper on eu transport policy. the sector could also be a key element in europe in solving the congestion and environmental problems generated by goods imported through seaports.
in writing. - i voted in support of an action programme for inland waterway transport. i agree that if the european union can harness the full potential of inland navigation transport, the inland waterway sector could be a key link in efforts to mitigate congestion and environmental problems throughout the eu.
in writing. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - all help to fishermen is timely. this aid must be granted in full respect of the environment so that the fishing industry is also looking to the future. there have been countries where the fishing industry has also been affected by the economic crisis and this report addresses the needs of these countries.
in writing. - i support this report because it is essential that eu member states currently obtaining financial assistance, as well as member states that might be assisted in the future, have the financial resources needed to carry out their fisheries policy projects and ensure investment in their fisheries sectors.
in writing. - i have voted against these reports as i believe that the current balance between implementing acts and delegated acts is adequate. i do not believe that there should be any change to this status quo and i think that the input of national experts is still very much needed in this area.
in writing. - i have voted against these reports as i believe that the current balance between implementing acts and delegated acts is adequate. i do not believe that there should be any change to this status quo. the input of national experts is still very much needed in this area.
in writing. - i have voted against these reports as i believe that the current balance between implementing acts and delegated acts is adequate. i do not believe that there should be any change to this status quo. the input of national experts is still very much needed in this area.
in writing. - this report ensures that it is recorded when members are excused from sittings owing to maternity/paternity leave, illness, serious family circumstances, missions or other reasons, and i fully support this.
in writing. - i support this report, which seeks to record expressly in the minutes those members who were not present in the sittings, but would have been excused by the president for reasons such as maternity or paternity leave, ill health, or serious family circumstances, which are recognised as legitimate reasons of absence from official meetings under article 31(4) of the implementing measures for the members’ statute.
in writing. - this report amends the rules of procedure regarding the absence of members from plenary during the sitting. i support the report in requiring that more detailed explanations be provided of reasons for missing sessions.
in writing. - it is important that the eu takes the initiative in setting clear emission reduction targets for new cars. the knowledge about the environmental impact of co2 emission needs to be translated into concrete targets, as this will benefit not only the environment, but also consumers who are enabled to make well-informed choices when purchasing a car. moreover, with the right set of incentives, eco-innovative production methods will give a boost to the competitiveness of the european automotive industry.
in writing. - the automotive sector has always been a sector that has been followed with some interest. in a question to the commission, i had stressed the fundamental importance of removing those obstacles linked to the payment of a vehicle registration tax. i insisted that we should do everything possible to simplify the procedures and conditions for registering cars in another member state. in the meantime, at least from an environmental point of view, i welcome today's vote on the ' modalities to meet the 2020 targets for reductions in co2 emissions from new traffic. ' the this legislation is at the heart of the eu's strategy to improve fuel economy from cars sold on the european market. those building and maintaining new cars should be encouraged to certify and to use technologies and technological innovations that help to further reduce fuel consumption and related co2 emissions. reducing co2 emissions from cars is beneficial for both consumers and the environment. by reducing consumption, it would be giving a competitive advantage to the european car industry on the world market.
in writing. - emissions from road transport are the second biggest source of emissions in the eu. the topic of this report is particularly relevant, as it seeks to bring about further significant reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles by using modern propulsion models that will reduce degradation of the environment. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - reducing co2 from cars is a win for both industry and consumers. it also makes a sustainable contribution to the improvement of our environment. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report is a key legal framework in the fight against counterfeit goods, which affect the health, safety and jobs of eu citizens. the report manages to adequately focus on issues of fundamental rights and consumer protection and therefore i am in favour of it.
in writing. - we need to continue to use all the tools at our disposal to fight organised crime. i support this report that suggests the adoption of minimum rules that will harmonise the member states’ freezing and confiscation regimes and facilitate mutual trust and effective cross-border cooperation. the consistency of these rules is essential to combating cross-border organised crime in the european union.
in writing. - this directive lays down minimum rules for the freezing of assets in relation to criminal matters. i support the report of the rapporteur and her work on the issue.
in writing. - this report is a key legal framework in the fight against counterfeit goods which affect the health safety and jobs of eu citizens. the report manages to adequately focus on issues of fundamental rights and consumer protection and therefore i am in favour of it.
in writing. - the eu serious and organised crime threat assessment 2013 (socta 2013) produced by europol found that, ‘serious and organised crime is an increasingly dynamic and complex phenomenon, and remains a significant threat to the safety and prosperity of the eu.’ because of this, i support this report, which calls for an increase in the provision of information to europol by member states and establishing a data processing environment that allows europol to fully assist member states in preventing and combating serious crime and terrorism.
in writing. - the aim of this regulation is to establish the eu agency for law enforcement cooperation, europol and to bring it in line with the lisbon treaty. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i fully support this initiative that seeks to express the union’s humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need through the promotion of an effective and visible european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. the union must guarantee sufficient humanitarian aid in the face of an increase of humanitarian crises, and this report establishes a corps that would help the union achieve just this.
in writing. - this report strives to establish for the first time the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, with the aim of expressing the eu’s humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need through the eu aid corps. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by the year 2020. the economic and financial crisis, however, is spreading poverty and social exclusion across the union. some 120 million european citizens, an increase of six million in two years and today almost a quarter of the population, were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2011. more than 40 million suffer from some form of material deprivation. more than 25 million children in the union were at risk of poverty and social exclusion by 2011. at the same time, the economic and financial crisis has hampered the ability of member states to offer support to those at risk of poverty and social exclusion. for this reason, i am proud today that the socialists and democrats in the european parliament have taken the initiative to create a new fund to provide aid to those most in need. the fund of €2. the 5 billion proposed for the period 2014-2020 will serve as a larger instrument through which to reach out to needy people or families in member states whose need for assistance is established by national authorities or partner organisations, or indirectly through the provision of food and other needs to homeless people or children. i believe that the fund for european aid to the most deprived is a sign of european solidarity with those most affected by the crisis, even if the budget increase is still far from sufficient. the support expected from this proposed fund should not be considered as a substitute for a comprehensive policy that is necessary to reduce and end poverty. this is the challenge that the union and the member states still have to face in the future.
in writing. - one quarter of europeans – 120 million people –were at risk of poverty and social exclusion in 2010. european solidarity is essential. the fund for aid to the most deprived (fead) is a sign of such solidarity with those hit hardest by the crises. the budget of about eur 3.5 billion is still far from being enough. whilst a budget to help those most deprived is a step in the right direction, it is to be noted that it is a shame that the european union has a quarter of europeans at the risk of poverty and social exclusion. member states should be leaders in eradicating poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. - there is a need for continued eu support in order to continue to contribute towards alleviating some of the worst forms of poverty and social exclusion in europe, which is why i support this report, which proposes a fund that would focus on the people most at risk of material deprivation and food deprivation, particularly the homeless, children and households with children. this fund is critical to the achievement of the eu’s target of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020.
in writing. - the fead is a vital instrument that has been created after much spearheading by the s&d. i wholeheartedly agree with the aims of this fund and thus voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to make necessary corrections and clarifications to regulation no[nbsp ]528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. it is important that these technical errors be corrected as soon as possible in order to provide member states, industry and the general public with the highest degree of legal clarity and certainty.
in writing. - the report on biocidal products is a good report that combines high levels of health and environmental protection with some clear rules to promote innovation and competitiveness. the compromise reached by the rapporteur is satisfying and to this end, i am voting in favour of this report.
almost 45 per cent of women in europe have suffered some form of violence and up to 15 per cent have been victims of domestic violence. seven women in the european union die every day from domestic violence. serious action is needed to address this situation. many member states say they are unable to allocate more resources to combat this type of violence. but i believe it makes more sense to invest in preventive measures. today in the european union there is no law establishing measures to promote action in the member states in the field of preventing violence against women. a number of resolutions have been passed calling for action against this type of violence. i regret to note that the commission responded by saying that there is no legal basis for a directive. we therefore have neither a law nor a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. for this reason, i welcome this report which we are approving. this is a report with a resolution that also includes a legislative request whereby we are recommending not only that violence be identified in the minimum standards directive on victims' rights but also to create a forum for civil society and authorities concerned.
in writing. - violence against women, as a form of gender-based discrimination, should be condemned under all circumstances. at a time when one in four women has experienced physical violence at least once during their adult lives and 12 to 15 percent of women in europe are victims of domestic violence, we need to stop this once and for all. violence against women makes them vulnerable, and enhances gender inequality by hindering women’s full participation in economic, social, political, and cultural life; let alone the impact it has on their physical and psychological well-being. it is crucial that the european union takes the lead in the fight against violence against women and provides a legal framework to support member states in this.
in writing. - the fight against violence should be at the forefront of the ep’s work. violence against women is particularly heinous due to it social implications. to this end, i have voted in favour of this report that aims to combat these crimes.
in writing. - while this is a valid report, i find myself in opposition due to the idea of having the eu come up with mechanisms to gather own resources. i believe that the current system is adequate in order to provide the eu with the resources that it needs without putting any additional burdens on our citizens. to this end, i have voted against this report.
on behalf of the s&d group. report approved today on the european semester for economic policy coordination employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2014 is being conducted at a time when unemployment in the european union has reached 26. 6 million people while youth unemployment reached 23 per cent in the european union. at the same time, almost a quarter of the european population is at risk of poverty. i am proud as a european socialist to say that we have achieved a satisfactory result with this report. for the first time, the joint employment report includes a table identifying social problems linked to work. i believe that this table should also include other indicators, in particular on child poverty, access to health care, as well as employment indices allowing an analysis of the social situation in the member states. the best way to create jobs is by increasing productive investment. we are therefore urging member states to create an investment package that will allow for improvements in the labour market especially in the interest of young people. the competitiveness of the european union is strengthened by investing more in education, research and development and the digital domain. i am concerned to see that some 20 member states are reducing education expenditure in relative terms. i therefore call on the commission to create a plan to help these member states improve their education spending. unused structural funds should go to a youth employment programme as well as to help small enterprises. member states should present a plan on how they will create jobs in those areas which have potential such as health, social care, industry and telecommunications. i stress the importance of giving priority to the youth guarantee. according to the ilo, eur[nbsp ]21[nbsp ] billion is needed to implement a programme to combat youth unemployment in the euro area. the european union and the member states shall give priority to allocating the funds necessary to carry out this programme.
in writing. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - no economic progress should be considered 'progress' if the wealth created is not distributed in a fair way that reaches everyone. the creation of new jobs should therefore be considered as the basis of all economic progress because it is work that provides a decent living for all families. but when we talk about new jobs, we must not just talk about numbers. jobs are required to be quality jobs with decent wages and working conditions. jobs without adequate wages and working conditions are more exploitation than jobs. precarious work must never be tolerated. it is not easy to create decent jobs for everyone overnight. we need to plan for the long term in the hope of avoiding the crises we have had in recent years and the basis of all planning should be education and training. only then can we also succeed in the fight against poverty, especially child poverty.
in writing. - this report on the european semester promotes quality employment, and strengthening social consolidation should be the eu’s priority, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. to this end i have voted in favour of this report
in writing. - the plant-breeding industry is very important in regard to the productivity, diversity, health and quality of agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production, and the environment, which is why i support this report.
in writing. - the aim of this report was that of ensuring that the eu’s agricultural sector would be able to respond to future challenges such as more extreme weather conditions and higher demand. particularly it focuses on the needs of small operators who may otherwise be left behind. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the youth guarantee has the noble purpose of helping young people find decent work. by decent work i do not mean only jobs with a good salary, but also jobs with appropriate working conditions. we exploit young people by leaving them no choice but to accept precarious employment simply because they cannot do otherwise. hence the importance of this guarantee to offer young people who finish their education, and those who lose their jobs, the opportunity of alternative employment, or further education and training to eventually help them find decent employment. this guarantee is very much needed when we know that youth unemployment is enormous, so much so that in some countries it even exceeds 50%, but it will not work miracles, especially in the difficult times we are still going through. we must recognize that these difficult times are having their effects not only on young people. the millions of unemployed european citizens are not all young, and it would be a great failure on our part if we did not offer our support to other unemployed citizens. it would be a failure on our part not to show solidarity with these citizens, many of whom are likely to be heads of households, and then the consequences of being unemployed could be even more dire. it is good to give priority to the problem of young people because young people are the future, but the present also exists.
in writing. - i support this report which seeks to maintain the necessary attention on how the single market is functioning in the european union. it is important that the eu continues to strengthen the power of the single market so as to improve its functioning and contribute to economic growth and job creation in europe.
in writing. - for a successful european semester cycle, concrete focus on real economy is a key priority. a coordinated and efficient single market governance cycle putting at its heart key economic sectors, consumers and workers will inevitably boost growth and jobs and ensure convergence between euro and non-euro areas. to this end i voted in favour of this report
in writing. i support this report, which calls for ecall to be a mandatory service in all new vehicles. ecall offers the 112 emergency service with further safety benefits for citizens that, if fully embraced, will save lives and reduce the severity of injuries. this system will lead to faster intervention by the emergency services and every minute saved is critical to saving the lives of those involved in car-related accidents.
in writing. - this report renews the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the eu and countries in central america (costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama). it is important that such dialogue and cooperation take place in order to tackle issues such as regional security and stability, conflict prevention, poverty reduction and social cohesion, human rights, migration and the fight against corruption.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a european union political dialogue and cooperation agreement with the countries of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua, and panama. this agreement would strengthen the programme of cooperation already established with these countries and would prepare the way for new initiatives for pursuing common goals in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration, counter-terrorism, and drugs.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report calling for an eu-central america political dialogue and cooperation agreement with costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua, and panama. this agreement will strengthen the economic and political cooperation of these countries with the eu while also safeguarding the rights of irregular migrants to safely reenter their home countries.
in writing. - this report, calling for a council decision on guidelines for member states’ employment policies, is necessary since, according to the treaty, member states are to regard their economic policies and promoting employment as matters of common concern and coordinate them within the council.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. - i support this report which seeks to introduce a standard, more efficient value added tax return. this will reduce administrative costs related to value added tax collection by billions of euros per year, prevent a fraud, and remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - i support this report for an amendment to decision 2009/831/ec that will the renew the authorisation of portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the autonomous region of madeira on locally produced and consumed rum and liqueurs and in autonomous region of the azores on locally produced and consumed liqueurs and eaux-de-vie until 31[nbsp ]december 2020.
in writing. - as the status of mayotte recently changed to become an outermost region of the eu, the entire treaty as well as all union tax legislation will be applicable to mayotte from the date of this status change. this report will allow france to apply, among other things, tax reductions for 59 products that are produced locally in mayotte, because of its particular circumstances and its dependence on air and sea transport.
in writing. - due to mayotte’s status change to an outermost region of the european union, i support this report for an amendment to decision 2004/162/ec that would authorise france to apply exemptions or reductions to the tax for a limited number of identified products. this authorisation is important because it would help to support an outermost region that, due to remoteness, small size of the market, and insularity, is disadvantaged when competing with products produced elsewhere.
in writing. - this report asks the council to take several recommendations into consideration for the agreement between the eu and indonesia. in this way, the agreement will help to enhance cooperation in tackling today’s challenges and encourage mutual benefits.
in writing. - i support this report for a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states and the republic of indonesia because it will strengthen eu- indonesia relations and will further enhance bilateral and regional cooperation in responding to global challenges.
in writing. - i support this report for a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states and the republic of indonesia because it will strengthen eu- indonesia relations and will further enhance bilateral and regional cooperation in responding to global challenges.
in writing. - i support this report for a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states and the republic of indonesia including the readmission clause. in particular i welcome the clause to effectively manage migration flows and tackle irregular migration.
in writing. - this report is about an agreement between the eu and turkey about illegal immigrants in the european union. this is important, since it will help curb illegal immigration. having said this, it is a must that the european union start taking a leading role in curbing the issue of trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report regarding an eu-turkey agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation because, as the one of the main transit countries for irregular immigration into the european union, turkey must have these agreements set in place to effectively cope with migration flows, combat cross-border crime including human trafficking.
in writing. - an agreement between turkey and the eu is very important in order to continue establishing better relations between both sides. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i have voted against this recommendation, which unfairly and incorrectly singles out maltese as one of the languages that is not expected to allow a full interpretation service in those languages from the beginning of the eighth parliamentary term. maltese language interpreters and translators in the european parliament do a fantastic job with limited resources. pursuant to rule 146 of procedure, all parliament’s documents are to be drawn up in the official languages, and all members have the right to speak in parliament in the official language of their choice, with interpretation being provided into the other official languages. the maltese public are amongst the most engaged in the european union, with close to 80% of the voting population having voted in the last european parliament elections. the maltese public has as much a right to be informed of decisions in their own language and should not be placed at a disadvantage. my constituents deserve nothing less.
in writing. - i support this report for amendments to the rules of procedure on voting in committee because i believe that they will improve the overall efficiency and transparency of the voting system and procedure within the european parliament.
in writing. - for years, the main criticism to the ep was that it is not transparent enough. this report will allow for more transparency with regards to the mep's work. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - with the new legislation on railways, railway companies will have to respect collective agreements in force in the member states they wish to operate in as a condition of obtaining and keeping their operating licences. another important goal achieved with this report is the protection of workers’ rights. the clause on minimum services in case of strikes has been voted out. the right to strike should be protected in the eu.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which deals with the creation of a single european railway area. in the last decade, steps have been taken to help open up national markets and make railways more competitive and interoperable. however, many technical barriers still exist and this fourth package is designed to target the obstacles that hinder sector competitiveness in order to make the railways a reliable and attractive means of transport within the e.u.
in writing. - the railway package is a very important step towards completion of the internal railway market and also in revitalising the railway sector in europe while upholding citizens’ rights. to this end i have voted in favour of this package.
in writing. - the railway package is a very important step towards completion of the internal railway market and also in revitalising the railway sector in europe while upholding citizens’ rights. to this end i have voted in favour of this package.
in writing. - the railway package is a very important step towards completion of the internal railway market and also in revitalizing the railway sector in europe while upholding citizens’ rights. to this end i have voted in favour of this package.
in writing. - the railway package is a very important step towards completion of the internal railway market and also in revitalizing the railway sector in europe while upholding citizens’ rights. to this end i have voted in favour of this package.
in writing. - the railway package is a very important step towards completion of the internal railway market and also in revitalising the railway sector in europe while upholding citizens’ rights. to this end i have voted in favour of this package.
in writing. - the introduction of the ecall system has a very important significance for me because of my own personal experience. eight years ago i almost lost my life in a traffic accident and therefore i fully understand the need for the introduction of this system which is beneficial for everyone. it is a step that will certainly be much appreciated by european citizens even if we consider that the introduction of the ecall system is calculated to save the lives of 2,500 citizens every year. in addition, with this system, the necessary medical interventions will be able to be provided more quickly and so thousands of citizens involved in traffic accidents will avoid more serious consequences. it is a case where we are really exploiting technological progress for the good of our citizens.
in writing. - i support this report, which calls for the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system. ecall offers a new, free-of-charge 112 emergency service with further safety benefits for citizens that, if fully embraced, will save european lives and will reduce the severity of injuries of those involved in road accidents. an automatic call will lead to faster intervention by the emergency services and each minute saved is critical to saving the lives of those injured.
in writing. - the e-call system is a system which could potentially save thousands of lives. to this end i have voted in favour of this.
on behalf of the s&d group. the health for growth programme which came at a time of many challenges linked to globalisation and the weak economic situation which is having a strong negative effect on the european union. in this context, i welcome this third multiannual eu health programme for 2014-2020, as it means that the health and well-being of the european citizen is therefore seen as a sound investment in its future. with this important programme we will be strengthening, supporting and adding value to member states' policies to improve the health of eu citizens and reduce inequalities in the health sector by fostering innovation, improving quality of care and protecting the public from cross-border diseases and other health threats. it should be argued that the intention is that in this time of economic crisis in europe, health should be something more than simply and synonymously linked to a financial deficit. reform of the healthcare system is needed to bring expenditure under control, to bring about more innovation and to achieve greater profitability. only in this way can the european union meet the demand for more care brought by an ageing population and continue to provide the highest quality care for future generations. by improving the health of europe's older people, we will reduce the suffering of old age and lighten the burden on society in terms of the costs of care, protection and medical assistance. in my view, the programme should focus more on neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer's and other forms of dementia. this disease affects a large number of people - more than 7 million in europe suffer from some form of the disease - and has serious consequences for healthcare, the economy and society as a whole. the programme should therefore pay more attention to old age and its associated diseases. some governments have been more active than others in meeting these challenges. the government of malta, for example, is leading the way in how to have a structure through which those most in need can find the support they need. finally, i would argue that improving the health of people in the eu is essential. we must keep in mind the definition of the world health organisation: health is a complete state of physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. other
in writing. - every health initiative is an initiative that deserves all the support. this is a programme with specific targets and it is important that these targets are met in all member countries. i believe that in order to achieve these goals, prevention must be given the highest priority, because as the saying goes, prevention is better than cure. it is therefore important to stress the need for every citizen to stay away from harmful things such as alcohol and smoking. it is also important to stress the need for good nutrition and physical exercise. in this sense, the contribution that ngos can make is very valuable and it is therefore wise that the programme pledges all support to these organisations.
in writing. - smoking remains the leading cause of preventable death in the eu and kills around 700,000 people per year. in particular, prevalence rates among young people ages 15-25 are higher than for the population as whole. i have, therefore, voted in favour of this report that seeks to update the tobacco products directive to include measures to particularly target young people and discourage them using tobacco products. i am very pleased that after months of tough negotiations, we have approved an effective piece of legislation. health commissioner tonio borg deserves a lot of credit for his tireless work on the dossier. this is very good news for public health.
in writing. - improving the health of people in the eu is an important target that has to be achieved. this report will help the commission and ep to better reach such targets. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this regulation aims at defining the guidelines for the deployment of digital service infrastructure and broadband networks. i believe that such initiatives are vital for the future of europe and have voted in favour.
in writing. - over 167 million eu citizens have difficulty in accessing public websites to use online public services. i believe in a truly social europe, therefore i believe that every single person has an equal right to access information for the general public. i believe that the eu should embrace a social model approach, rather than a medical model approach with respect to persons with a disability.
in writing. - i support this report, which seeks to harmonise and improve the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites because these bodies and any entities providing basic services to the public need to adopt the inclusive practice of web-accessibility in order to fulfil their responsibility towards all citizens, including those with disabilities. this directive is very important for blind and partially sighted people, who are disproportionately affected by the inaccessibility of websites
in writing. - this report strengthens the accessibility of websites for all users regardless of functional limitations, thus putting in place the requirements laid out in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this is a report on the commissionʼs green paper on the subject. i believe it is important to maintain public investment as the main source of long-term financing in the eu and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this is a non-binding resolution. european commission data shows that 62% of the victims of trafficking are trafficked for purposes of sexual exploitation and that 96% of the identified and presumed victims are women and girls. eu countries should strengthen their policies to fight trafficking and better protect victims. i encourage the european parliament that when on the 5 march 2014, it will be celebrating the international women’s day, it addresses also these issues along with the fight against violence against women.
in writing. - protecting women who are forced into prostitution is an important task for us. to this end i have voted in favour of this report in order to ensure that no abuse is allowed of women who are forced to sell themselves for money.
in writing. – armed drones are used by countries which have advised capabilities. on the other hand terrorists use a similar weapon which is the unmanned bomb car or truck bomb. there is one difference: drones target – militants; car bombs target – civilians. it makes no sense to ban armed drones when we know that terrorists will not ban car and truck bombs.
it was a collective effort of cooperation that led to the document we have before us today. as a shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group, the socialists and democrats, i would like to stress that if the solvit service we are talking about in this document works well, it can be one of the best tools to bring confidence among citizens and even businesses in the internal market. we need to ensure that european citizens and businesses have insurance, assistance and the right to tools to make their lives easier. this solvit service document before us for a vote today, ensures this. in the context of this report, i also mention the need for a social europe so that everyone has a right to a service as if he or she were solvit. that is why, throughout the work that has been done from the very beginning, i have expressed the need for accessibility including people with disabilities and even the elderly.
in writing. - the current report negotiated by the rapporteur is a good step forward with regard to creating a common european sales law. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - one of the main aims of this directive is to discourage young people from starting drinking. smoking is one of the most harmful health habits and certainly costs us millions of euros for the care that sufferers receive. it is good to take steps to, among other things, have bigger warnings on every cigarette pack, to have regulations even on e-cigarettes, and other steps, but it is also wise to emphasise the harm of smoking even in schools and this from a young age. the reason is that once you get hooked, you can't stop smoking.
in writing. - the revised tobacco directive will play an important part in the fight against smoking, particularly amongst younger people. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on improving solvit, the online network for informal settling of cross-border disputes over discrepancies in application of the single market rules between citizens or businesses and national administrations across the eu. this system has successfully produced tangible results and in order to ensure that the single market grows and delivers for the benefit of citizens and businesses in years to come, it is vital that we work to increase the availability and quality of information on eu rights in the single market so that citizens and businesses – in particular smes – are better aware of their rights.
in writing. - this report, which gives the green light to the european investigation order, will help to improve police and judicial cooperation across borders within the eu.
in writing. - i support this report, which is another important tool in the process of strengthening the eu’s work against criminal activities. the investigation order will ensure the free movement of persons while guaranteeing their safety.
in writing. - granting moldovan citizens the right to travel freely in the 26 eu countries of the schengen area is a very important step, and will be of great support to the development of economic, cultural, scientific and other ties throughout europe. as the first of the eastern partnership countries receiving the privilege of benefiting from visa liberalisation, for periods of up to 90 days, moldova can be a front-runner for other countries as well.
in writing. - i support this report, which seeks to amend the annexes to regulation 539/2001 establishing a list of countries whose citizens must have a visa when crossing the external borders and a list of countries whose citizens are exempt from the requirement, particularly with regard to the transfer of the republic of moldova from the negative list to the positive list. i can accept the waiving of visa obligations for citizens of moldova considering the progress the country has made in meeting all the requirements of the visa liberalisation action plan.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which seeks a voluntary partnership agreement between the republic of indonesia and the european union in order to establish a legal framework on forest law enforcement, governance, and trade in timber products in the eu. these partnerships are important to the eu’s efforts in improving the sustainable management of forests on a global scale, stopping deforestation and forest degradation.
in writing. - i have voted in support of this report, which calls for a decision of the european parliament and of the council introducing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by croatia and cyprus of certain documents as equivalent to their national visas for transit through or intended stays on their territories not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. this report also calls for the repeal of decision no 895/2006/ec and decision no 582/2008/ec of the european parliament and the council.
in writing. - i believe that this report is a good report in that it will allow the union to exercise better control of its borders. to this end, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i support this report, which proposes regularly updating the lists of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of member states and those who nationals are exempt from that requirement. i support the proposed changes being made to the lists
in writing. - it is true that thanks to the agreement reached, the violence and even the killing of protesters, who had the courage to take to the streets to listen to the voice of the majority of the people of ukraine, stopped. the formation of a coalition government has raised new hopes for the entire people of ukraine. they are also ambitious expectations given that the people are rightly hoping for significant changes in the short term to reduce abuses, corruption and discrimination. the challenges facing the government are therefore very great. more so when one considers the economic situation of the country. for our part, we must assure the people of ukraine that we will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with them so that eventually all the goals of the same people become a reality.
in writing. - the situation in ukraine is a very dramatic one. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to support a peaceful resolution of the conflict.
in writing. - according to casualty figures released by the united nations assistance mission for iraq on 1 february 2014, a total of 733 iraqis were killed and another 1[nbsp ]229 were wounded in acts of terrorism and violence in january 2014, and these figures do not include casualties resulting from the ongoing fighting in anbar province. i support this resolution on the current situation in iraq because i believe that these statistics and the deteriorating state of security in iraq are deeply concerning and that the eu and the un must play an important role in helping iraqi citizens reduce violence by promoting democracy, human rights, good governance and the rule of law.
in writing. - i support this resolution on the use of armed drones. i believe that there needs to be an in-depth discussion at the european level regarding a common eu policy and position on the use of these systems.
in writing. - the michel report on fundamental rights in the european union is a very good and valid report. it is a broad report which manages to touch upon all those issues regarding what rights we expect for our citizens in 2014. from lgbti rights to issues of sexual violence on women to the banning of female genital mutilation, this report is a strong step forward. however, this report finds me perplexed with regard to other issues, particularly the issue of sexual and reproductive health rights. it is my idea that such ideas should not be included in such a report as i am against abortion. to this end, i have decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which seeks to improve the european arrest warrant framework decision of 2002 that made it much quicker and easier to bring suspects and accused persons to justice by transforming the old extradition procedure into a faster system through communication between judicial authorities. this decision has ensured that open borders are not exploited by those seeking to escape justice. however, there is still a lot of room for improvement in terms of this policy, which is why i support this report to address problems that have arisen with regard to the european arrest warrant framework decision.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant is an important tool for the creation of a safer europe. to this end i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - it is important for the eu to condemn all violence from all sides in venezuela and to urge the authorities to respect fundamental rights, constructive and respectful dialogue and tolerance in that country. only this can help overcome the serious crisis and put an end to social inequalities.
in writing. - women play an important role in the fisheries sector, not least those married to fishermen, because even if they are not officially considered as employees, directly or indirectly, they make a great and valuable contribution. it is therefore appropriate to give legal and social recognition to their work. i also believe that more women should be encouraged to enter this field and to this end we should work to improve working conditions so that employment in this field is decent with a decent income for everyone.
in writing. - i support this report which discusses private copying levies and their role in helping right holders achieve compensation for the use of their works. these levies are critical in ensuring that artists’ rights are protected and that they are fairly compensated.
in writing. – the report on equality between women and men is a laudable one. it treats the aspect of gender equality from all facets. it is unbelievable that even in the western world there is still the need to emphasise those areas were gender equality does not exist. of course in many other regions of the world the situation is worse and needs to be addressed in a balanced way. unfortunately the report includes references to reproduction issues and in particular to abortion. as is known throughout the european union, malta is adverse to these issues. the two political parties which dominate the political scene, the church and non-governmental organisations are against abortion under any circumstances. in view of this i will have to vote against the articles referring to this subject. against my will, i will also have to vote against the report as a whole. the reason is because, when the s&d malta delegation votes against specific clauses on abortion but then votes in favour of the report, it is unbelievable how we are criticised.
we are meeting today exactly two days after women's day. i would like to take this opportunity to remember not only maltese and gozitan women and european women, but also women around the world. i speak of this day with a certain sadness. because while i recognize that there have been women who have made a success of their lives, i also recognize that there are others who have not had the same opportunities. because that girl who lives in that remote corner on that island in the middle of the mediterranean, what opportunities could she have if she doesn't have access to education for so long? at the same time, how can that child, now a man, not be abused by his wife or partner if he is not taught that domestic violence does not make you a man? i also want to acknowledge and honour all those women who, because it was their choice and not by force, decided to make a career of caring for their families. they too need all the help and respect. how much help and respect do all these women need who, despite their careers, and even their disabilities, have decided to take care of their elderly parents instead of sending them to institutions. we therefore need policies and structures that really help women. we need to look at all of this holistically and so it requires a collective effort in one work to see that our goal is to develop a just society.
the maltese government has recently decided to place a gas storage tanker anchored in the heart of marsaxlokk bay. i coordinated a petition signed by thousands of maltese and gozitan citizens who are concerned. we want the european commission to protect the residents of the south of malta and investigate the dangers of the government's decision. we believe that the way the storage will be done is against the seveso directive. we want to know what the government, with its project, is doing to the residents, the environment, businesses, aquaculture and fishermen and their vessels. what the government wants to do is the complete opposite of what other european union governments have done, where they have taken the necessary precautions and kept the stockpile off the ground. an expert in this field said that if there is a gas leak, the consequences would be disastrous, and 91% of residents agree with him. we all want cleaner air and cheaper bills, but we believe that this can be done without the government putting residents at risk.
on behalf of the s&d group. other the events of recent days have further confirmed the importance of the european union, frightened and perhaps even depressed by the serious economic difficulties it is experiencing, not turning its back on those countries and peoples which are neighbours. i have said and i will continue to say that it would be a grave mistake for the european union to reduce its involvement, including financial involvement, in the mediterranean region. we all know what this region means in the history of mankind; we all know how sensitive the mediterranean is: large parts of it are still going through periods of instability and even adjustment. this parliament is called upon to give a signal. we must show that we have understood and that we have understood that internal prosperity also depends on external stability. it is therefore essential that the european union engages fully and strongly in the development of its surrounding regions. if the european union really wants to be relevant, it cannot abandon these peoples by reducing the level of its active participation. if we do, i believe history will judge us and even condemn us.
in writing. - this report calls for common rules on community statistics concerning inland waterways transport. it is also set to improve reporting obligations.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report which seeks to align the existing comitology provisions to delegated and implementing acts, further to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i agree with this report in view of the importance of inland waterways.
in writing. - to assess correctly the economic health of member states, it is crucial that data collection is performed in the right way. this report, in addition, calls on member states not to misinterpret data intentionally.
in writing. - i support this report which aims to ensure the quality and timeliness of the production and provision of the monitoring of statistical data that is compiled and transmitted in order to detect macroeconomic imbalances and prevent or correct excessive imbalances within the union. i recognise that there is a need to develop clear procedures in order to ensure high quality statistics so that macroeconomic imbalances can be quickly resolved.
in writing. - i agree with this report as we also voted in favour in the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report which consents to the extension of the ec-usa scientific and technological cooperation agreement because i believe that the eu should continue its strong tradition of cooperation with the united states in the areas of science and technology.
in writing. - it is important that this ec-usa scientific and technological cooperation agreement is extended, therefore i voted in favour
in writing. - the objective of this report is the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilisation of genetic resources. it will create an incentive to biodiversity conservation, foster development, and will contribute to equity and social justice.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for the european parliament to consent to the ratification of the nagoya protocol by the european union, a treaty focused on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilisation. i see the ratification of this protocol as crucial to combating the loss of biodiversity on an international level.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that access to genetic resources must be viewed in its entirety
in writing. - this report gives green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in spain. the application relates to 300 redundancies in 198 small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the textile sector in the region of comunidad valenciana. this is the first mobilisation of the egaf in 2014
in writing. - this european globalisation adjustment fund is essential; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against because of the lack of the information on long term effects.
in writing. - i voted in favour on this report because it is in line with the general provisions and policies.
in writing. - the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and serbia follows that of several other countries in the western balkans. it will help to efficiently implement trade aspects of the agreement, and in the longer term, to improve trade benefits on both sides.
in writing. - the vote against is to reject the association agreement with the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which proposes a directive that would amend current directives in respect of the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority because the financial crisis in the late 2000s exposed critical shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination, consistent application of european union law, and trust between national authorities. changes need to be made to current legislation in order for the eu economy to grow and continue to flourish.
in writing. - this positive vote is important because of the importance of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. - despite several positive elements in this report, i also have strong objections. not only would parliamentʼs position add to the administrative burdens of both financial intelligence units and service providers, but it would also extend the scope to cover all products under the payment services directive. this would make it effectively unworkable.
in writing. - i voted in support of this report which aims to enhance the transparency of both domestic and cross-border fund transfers by helping law enforcement officials track more easily funds transferred by criminals. this change is critical to combating money laundering and terrorist financing.
in writing. - i have voted against this legislative resolution because it is not in malta's interest.
in writing. - as it stands, i am against the legislative resolution on prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the granting of an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations that support investment projects outside the union. this will help the eu achieve its external policy objectives.
in writing. - this is an important report as the eu provides guarantees to the eib against losses under financing operations supporting investment projects outside the european union. i voted in favour.
in writing. - according to the international union for the conservation of nature, it has been calculated that one in four species of mammals, one in eight birds, and more than one in three amphibians are threatened with extinction worldwide. this report, which proposes a regulation on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilisation in the union, is a key step in european efforts to conserve biodiversity. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this legislative resolution because of its contents on the importance of genetic resources.
in writing. - the proposal is based on setting common eu-wide minimum standards for vehicle checks, with member states free to go further and introduce higher standards, if appropriate. the text adopted in the report at first reading in plenary changes the frequency of testing and endorses the commission’s proposal to make roadworthiness tests mandatory for motorcycles. therefore, new rules will apply on roadworthiness testing with the aim of further enhancing road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
in writing. - i support this report, which calls for a regulation on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers and the repeal of directive 2009/40/ec, because these regulations will further enhance road safety in the eu while ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
in writing. - roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles including trailers are essential for safety. i voted in favour.
i supported and voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to enforce car tests in order to increase road safety and strengthen environmental protection. before a vehicle is placed on the market it must be ascertained that it meets the appropriate levels of safety and environmental protection in the interest of every european citizen. each member state of the european union shall register each new car on the basis of a certificate of conformity issued by the manufacturer. this is to serve as insurance for cars on the road. this proposal talks about a clearer definition of the place of registration of cars while introducing the abolition of registration certificates. this allows cars that pose a road hazard to be decertified until they are subjected to another test. i believe that this directive is positive and that it is helpful for european citizens. this directive will also be able to cancel the registration of cars that are re-registered in another country. this is to remove the double registration of cars. scrapped cars are also deregistered. as i have said many times, the problems associated with taxes on the registration of cars manufactured in the member states represent an obstacle for citizens when exercising the right to the single market and go against this spirit. as i mentioned in my question to the european commission, the car registration tax is still creating obstacles for businesses and citizens despite the single market rules. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
in writing. - this report, as part of the roadworthiness package, defines the place of registration of vehicles and introduces the withdrawal and the cancellation of registration certificates.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which is part of the overall ‘roadworthiness package’ that aims to improve road safety and environmental protection. this specific report seeks to amend council directive 1999/37/ec on the registration documents for vehicles. the changes made would improve the enforcement of the roadworthiness testing and roadside inspection regime by allowing authorities to temporarily withdraw or permanently cancel a vehicle’s registration if the technical condition of a vehicle creates a great risk to road safety.
in writing. - it is important that registration documents for vehicles are as indicated in the legislative resolution. i voted in favour.
in writing. - road safety is a major societal issue. the european parliament should once again give a clear signal of its commitment to road safety. the effectiveness of road safety policy depends ultimately on the users’ behaviour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which seeks a regulation on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles circulating in the union and repealing directive 2000/30/ec. i support this report, because the harmonisation and strengthening of eu legislation on roadworthiness tests and technical roadside inspections will make clear parliament’s commitment to road safety and will help the eu reach its goal of reducing the number of road fatalities by 50[nbsp ]% between 2010 and 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles will lead to greater safety.
in writing. - data collection is essential to assess european transport networks, and the regulation that is to be amended by means of this report covers goods and passenger transport, as well as data collected on traffic flows on the rail network and on accidents. this report will simplify the rules for the generation of these transport statistics, which is important to give information on cross-border connections in particular.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which proposes a regulation to amend regulation ec/91/2003 on rail transport statistics, in regard to the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. the establishing of common rules for the production of eu rail transport statistics will improve the quality of data on these topics and will shorten the time it takes to disseminate rail passenger data.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that keeping rail transport statistics will bring better coordination.
in writing. - a shift towards electronic procurement and hence e-invoices will allow for more efficient use of public funds and resources.
in writing. - electronic invoicing in public procurement will lead to better efficiency. i voted in favour
in writing. - collection of data is important for good decision-making, and this report aims to fix the financial envelope and to support the farm structure survey of 2016.
in writing. - the surveys on farm structure and agricultural production methods will serve for better planning. i have voted in favour.
in writing. - the legislative resolution on goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products is positive. i have voted in favour.
in writing. - the report calls amongst other issues on the european investment bank (eib) to update its climate change strategy before the end of 2015. it focuses also on the eib’s governance, compliance and control framework, on strengthening the support for smes and on the eib’s contribution to the eu’s external policies. it also calls for transparency.
in writing. - i agree with the european investment bank annual report. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls for a motion for resolution with recommendations to the commission on the european system of financial supervision review.
in writing. - this reinforces the esa’s role concerning guidelines relating to the european system of financial supervision review.
in writing. - this is an own-initiative report, calling amongst other issues for the commission to bring forward a proposal laying down clear rules and criteria for classification of documents at eu level. it also highlights the problems of gaining access to documents relating to international negotiations and opinions of legal services.
in writing. - public access to documents for the years 2011-2013 will lead to more transparency. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - this is an own-initiative report. amongst other issues, its content emphasises the important role of the committee on petitions with regard to the development of democratic principles, such as the increased participation of citizens in the eu decision-making process and the enhancement of transparency and accountability in order to ensure that eu law is fully respected in both letter and spirit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a motion for resolution on activities of the committee on petitions in 2013, because it serves to increase transparency and is a useful oversight tool for the activities of this particular committee.
in writing. - the resolution is important as the activities of the committee on petitions are a part of parliament’s work which is essential. i have voted in favour.
in writing. - i recognise horticulture as a diverse and important part of the eu agriculture sector that is in need of legislative support in order to unlock the sector’s full potential. i have therefore supported this report that calls for an increased eu role in supporting this growing sector.
in writing. - i voted against the report in line with the s&d policy.
in writing. - torture is not acceptable under any circumstances. the eu needs to take a clear stance in condemning for instance capital punishment, but also gender-based violence, capital punishment or torture that affects children.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls for a motion for resolution on the eradication of torture in the world. despite the international condemnation of torture, it persists worldwide and there is a need for an international framework and national preventive mechanisms to defend human rights and finally move towards the elimination of torture.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this resolution because eradication of torture is sine qua non.
in writing. - it is important that we recognise first of all the interdependence between the eu and the kingdom of saudi arabia in terms of regional stability or the outcome of transitions in the arab spring countries, for instance. however, we also need to be critical of developments concerning human rights.
in writing. - i agree with report and therefore i have voted in favour.
in writing. the european council's agenda for this month includes climate and energy. i take this opportunity to recall what the ec said to me when, in a parliamentary question, i asked about energy poverty. the reply stated that at eu level there are no statistics on the number of people considered to be in poverty or on a concept to protect them. it was stated that there is no obligation on member states to collect and report harmonised statistics on energy vulnerability and poverty among consumers. it was stated that the commission is conducting a study to identify vulnerability patterns in key consumer markets, including energy and that it should be published in 2015. i urge the european council to take account of energy poverty, at least at a generic level. women are particularly affected as the austerity measures in recent years have continued to weigh on them and their families. in a traditional society, which still exists in many european union member countries, many women work at home without financial compensation. we cannot forget that. it is not because women in employment cannot also end up energy poor, because after all i want to remember that many women are in precarious employment, and therefore, the strength of [their] money is limited. in the light of all this, i would therefore urge the european council to include gender in its strategies and policies. only then can we have a just society and a social europe.
in writing. - this resolution turns the spotlight on the social and economic situation in pakistan. pakistan has one of the highest out-of-school populations in the world, with an estimated 12 million children not attending school and about two thirds of pakistani women and half of pakistani men being illiterate. the country is still ranked 134th out of 135 countries in the world economic forum’s ‘gender gap’ report. according to the global climate risk index, pakistan is among the twelve countries most affected by climate change in the last twenty years, has suffered severe flooding and water shortages and is directly affected by the glacial retreat on the himalayas and karakorum ranges. pakistan is a semi-industrialised, lower- to middle-income country, with around one third of its population living below the poverty line. pakistan is ranked in 146th place among the 187 countries listed in the 2012 human development index (hdi), down from 145th place in the listing for 2011. the economic situation of pakistan has been harmed by successive natural disasters. pakistan has a high level of insecurity, instability and widespread corruption, which weaken its economic growth and limit the government’s ability to develop the state.
in writing. - strengthening pakistanʼs parliamentary institutions in their core functions of legislation, oversight and representation is a priority for eu-pakistan relations. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a resolution on an anti-missile shield for europe and its political and strategic implications, because i feel that an anti-missile shield is an appropriate european response to the current proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. it is critical that a sense of security be maintained for european citizens and i believe that this shield would be a productive means of protecting european citizens from such threats.
in writing. - i agree with the intention to promote the idea of linking natoʼs ballistic missile defence to the eu’s common security and defence policy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i supported this report, which discusses the situation and future prospects of the european fishing sector in the context of the free trade agreement between the eu and thailand. i agree that specific measures need to be taken in order to revitalise and ensure the future success of the currently-fragile european fisheries sector. a free trade agreement with thailand, one of the world’s leading fish-producing countries, will generate substantial benefits for the eu economy as a whole.
in writing. - the european fishing and fish-processing industry is essential for supplying food to european citizens and supporting the livelihood of coastal areas. since thailand is one of the world’s leading fish-producing countries it is an important policy objective for the european union. i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - gastronomy and cooking have become an increasingly important form of artistic and cultural expression. if nutritional food and gastronomic food are to fulfil their role in modern society, it is vital to create an appropriate education and culture. developments in recent years have highlighted that diet, in its broadest sense, is extraordinarily important in modern society. inappropriate diet is the main cause of conditions including obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and gastric problems. poor diet is, of course, not the only problem. lack of exercise, consumption of harmful products such as drugs, excessive alcohol or tobacco, and a lack of emotional control are also major contributing factors in all these pathologies. the main objective of 21st century food culture and education must be to show and convince everyone, young and old, that it is not only possible, but also necessary, to combine healthy eating with gastronomy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which discusses in depth both the cultural and educational aspects of european gastronomic heritage. i agree that the european community must recognise the importance of diet in modern society and incorporate learning about diet and nutrition, as well as the knowledge and culture of food and gastronomy, into the various national education systems. making these changes will allow eu citizens to improve their health and reduce the amount of money pouring into public and private health systems for illnesses and conditions that could be prevented with proper education regarding food and nutrition.
in writing. - it is essential that learning about diet and nutrition, taste workshops and a knowledge and culture of food and gastronomy be incorporated into the various national education systems. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - whilst acknowledging that data protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data is essential, a number of elements in this dossier, such as those concerning the consistency mechanism and one-stop-shop mechanism, may prove too prescriptive.
in writing. - i have voted in support of this report, which proposes a regulation of the european parliament and council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, in order to protect the right of eu citizens under article 8 of the eu charter to personal data protection. in the light of rapid technological advancements within the past decade and the increased collection of personal data, i agree that there is a need for a congruous and forceful framework with a high level of protection for all data processing activities within the eu to be established.
in writing. - i abstained so as not to take a position on this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation, which seeks to extend to those member states which have not adopted the euro as their single currency, the application of the pericles 2020 programme, which establishes an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the programme has achieved past success and i believe that in order to improve in the future, the eu should extend the programme further in order to increase its effectiveness.
in writing. - i am agree with the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report consents to the council decision on the issuance of visas to citizens of azerbaijan. in tandem with a readmission agreement, this was agreed as part of the cooperation between the two, within the eastern partnership. it is important to keep monitoring these agreements, as azerbaijan is of great strategic interest to the eu.
in writing. - i believe that improving mobility is an essential element for the development of economic, social, cultural and other issues. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - freedom, security and justice are the essential elements of this agreement. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the number of children involved in armed conflicts varies from 250 000 to 800 000. it is estimated that since 1996, 6 million children have been displaced by armed conflict, and some 2 million have been killed. some 20 million suffered human rights violations. every year, between 8 000 and 10 000 children are killed or disappear. the united nations declared 12 february as the international day against the use of child soldiers to raise awareness and to rally support for the zero under 18 campaign and to seek universal ratification of the optional protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict. children are the present and the future. they therefore need protection and it would be a mistake for the eu to turn a blind eye to these shocking figures from around the world. i am calling for us to look around the eu and take action on children. i commend the maltese government for strengthening the country's laws. just over 12 months after the united nations committee on the rights of the child called for malta to ban the spanking of children altogether, a draft law amending the children and young persons act is being debated in the maltese parliament and 'for the avoidance of doubt, body-beating of any kind shall always be considered to be out of the question. 'by virtue of this amendment malta will comply with the european court of human rights. i call on the european parliament to also be a promoter of such causes.
in writing. - protecting children in armed conflict in accordance with international humanitarian law in order to avoid a lifelong devastating impact on their physical and mental development is a very important issue. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this dossier deals with a proposal for a decision on the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and to multilateral parliamentary assemblies. it aims to to strengthen parliamentary democracy by pursuing continuous interparliamentary dialogue.
in writing. - i am in agreement with parliamentary cooperation between the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint interparliamentary committees, and multilateral parliamentary assemblies. i voted in favour.
in writing. - providing consumers with food information regarding the definition of ‘engineered nanomaterialsʼ is essential. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this dossier is about the processing of personal data for the purposes of crime prevention. the data protection regulation replaces the old data protection directive 95/46/ec, the main reason being that the implementation and enforcement gaps between member states were too substantive and confusing to individuals, businesses and enforcers alike. it protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons.
in writing. - personal data protection is essential. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the implementation of the single european sky report because it is not in maltaʼs interest.
in writing. - the key aim of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and establish the structure (governance) of the european union agency for aviation. there are four priority areas amongst which one finds the competences and functioning of a new agency governance body, named the executive board, the introduction of the notion of national aviation agencies in place of member states and the suppression of delegated acts for certain conditions to manage certificates issued by the agency.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which seeks to amend (ec) no[nbsp ]216/2008 concerning aerodromes, air traffic management, and air navigation services because i support its objective of establishing and maintaining a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and establishing the structure of the european union agency for aviation.
in writing. - establishing and maintaining a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and establishing the structure of the european union agency for aviation is essential. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this dossier is about the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on package travel and assisted travel arrangements. however, a ‘one-size-fits-all’ solution is not always a step in the right direction. the report includes a number of negative elements and implications. these concern elements addressing airlines which will impact on our local airline, as well as inflation effects with regards to hotels when it comes to bookings.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i disagree with the proposed package travel and assisted travel arrangements.
in writing. - this report will gradually push to replace harmful air conditioning and refrigeration with eco-friendly options. the new legislation will reduce environmental damage and will encourage the use of alternative eco-friendly equipment, much of which has been developed through research and innovation from european companies. f-gases are currently used in air-conditioning systems, fridges, insulation foams, electrical equipment, aerosol sprays (as solvents) and in fire-protection systems. they are up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more damaging than co2 and can remain in the atmosphere for thousands of years. european producers and citizens will benefit, since the demand for their sustainable products will increase and the new air-conditioning systems and refrigerators with natural gases usually consume less energy than the old ones.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a european parliament and council regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases. these gases in particular pose a great risk to our environment and have large global warming potentials. if the european union is to meet its goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to levels in 1990, this regulation must be adopted to prevent emissions from increasing for several decades to come.
in writing. - reducing fluorinated gases emissions is essential for the environment. i voted in favour.
the free movement of workers is a fundamental right of citizens of the european union as well as an important element of the labour market. this right gives workers the opportunity to seek and obtain work in places where work is needed while making the best use of their skills. with this legislation, we will be removing barriers to workers' mobility and strengthening their right to information and legal support when they encounter discrimination. i believe, as a democratic socialist, that the aim of this directive is good because it creates fair and transparent conditions for those workers seeking work in other countries, including maltese and gozitan workers and young people. working conditions are improving, for example in relation to employee wages, health at work, access to training and education. we have attached importance to civil society, including voluntary associations and trade unions, in areas concerning the protection of workers. it is helping to increase equal treatment between workers, even in cases involving court actions. at the same time, this directive creates a balance between individual and collective rights, while article 3 of the directive deals with collective agreements. this directive will also require member states to designate a structure in the country responsible for disseminating information and providing free assistance to workers where labour law is concerned. this structure will also be informing young people about their rights when working abroad. i believe that this directive will help to create a more equitable circulation of workers in europe, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - this dossier addresses the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures facilitating the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of freedom of movement for workers. this directive has elements addressing workers’ mobility, the enforcement of workers’ rights, and ultimately the equal treatment of the worker wherever he or she decides to work in the eu. a fair and just society is called for.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes a directive of the european parliament and council on measures facilitating the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of freedom of movement for workers. the free movement of workers is a fundamental freedom established in the eu charter and therefore, needs defended through legislation.
in writing. - i agree that free movement of workers is a fundamental right or freedom for eu citizens. i voted in favour.
today in this parliament we have approved an important directive dealing with the effects of public and private projects on the environment. as a member of the committee on transport and tourism i served as rapporteur for an opinion on the directive and many consider it an important stepping stone for european union environmental policy. some 200 types of project fall under the umbrella of this directive, from the construction of bridges and ports to the livestock industry. this directive helps to bring it further into line with the reflection of the european union's policy priorities. as regards the screening procedure, this proposal will lead to only those projects having a strong impact on the environment being subject to an environmental impact assessment. as regards administrative simplification, this directive proposes minimum and maximum periods for public consultation while 'one stop shops' will be set up in the member states to coordinate the environmental assessment procedure. as rapporteur for the committee on transport and tourism i supported the changes to the directive proposed by the commission because i believe that action at european level is necessary to establish fairness and to increase the value of work at national level. this is because the impact of environmental work transcends national borders. in fact, i am of the opinion that projects aiming at protecting the historical heritage should be excluded from this environmental assessment process. i also stressed the need to take account of the tourism dimension. the implementation of certain projects may have a negative impact on tourism and this would be detrimental to the economy; this is particularly the case if tourism is an important part of the economy of the country concerned. finally, i believe that this directive, as revised, better focuses on the environmental need for climate change and biodiversity while increasing administrative coherence and transparency as well as increasing public participation in this process.
in writing. - this report is about the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. this dossier calls for new elements to be taken into account in the revised eia directive. these include climate change and biodiversity. important elements such as public participation and transparency in decision-making are also new.
in writing. - a green economy is essential with impact resource efficiency, climate change and loss of biodiversity, in particular with regard to large infrastructure projects. i am in favour.
in writing. - the decision to set up european business centres in asia derives from the eu’s ‘global europe’ strategy and small business act. amongst other elements one finds measures relating to the codes to be used for statistical data and measures relating to linking the data on imports and exports with the data on business.
in writing. - statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries will lead to a better structure. i voted in favour.
in writing. - copernicus is proposed to be the successor of the european earth observation programme gmes (global monitoring for environment and security) providing an earth observation system through use of satellites and other in situ monitoring to provide information on the environment, and also monitoring of natural or man-made disasters such as forest fires, or aiding emergency work in the wake of a typhoon (as was recently the case in the philippines). its main purpose is to provide data and information stemming from space-borne and in situ observations which contribute to the protection of the environment, to civil protection and to security – and ultimately to economic growth. the effects are expected to be in the region of eur[nbsp ]30 billion financial benefits and some 50[nbsp ]000 new jobs over the period 2015-2030.
in writing. - the copernicus programme will provide data and information stemming from space-borne and in-situ observations which contribute to the protection of the environment, to civil protection and to security, all of which is essential for economic growth. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report.
in writing. - i support this report, which calls for the european union to assess and set priorities for eu relations with the eastern partnership countries. i believe that this is of utmost importance because the parliament needs to demonstrate its openness and commitment to the development of the european project as well as the eastern partnership.
in writing. - it is essential to assess and set priorities for the euʼs relations with the eastern partnership, focusing on policies that will have tangible results, such as the visa-free regime and promotion of youth and young leaders, ensuring their future is anchored in the eu, and focusing on the euʼs energy security. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the european commission should be taking all necessary steps to restore trust in data flows between the eu and the usa. the eu and the usa are currently negotiating a framework agreement on data protection in the field of police and judicial cooperation and the eu is also strengthening its own rules on data protection. whilst awaiting the outcome of the commission’s extensive review of all data flows between the eu and the usa, it is important to point out that citizens have a right to stand up for their rights, for democracy and for the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the united states’ national security agencyʼs surveillance programme as well as surveillance bodies in various member states and their impact on eu citizens’ fundamental rights and on transatlantic cooperation in justice and home affairs. at a time when more and more personal data is being collected and stored, it is necessary that we engage in an in-depth discussion at eu level about what is at stake when it comes to cyber-security and mass surveillance and take the steps necessary to monitor the implementation of the mandate put forward, in order to advocate for eu citizens’ rights.
in writing. - it is a good report about related to inquiry into the alleged mass surveillance of citizens by us nsa and various member states and its impact on citizens' fundamental rights. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this dossier is about evaluation of justice in relation to criminal justice and the rule of law. the establishment of a justice scoreboard in criminal matters will make a fundamental contribution to creating a common understanding of eu legislation in the field of criminal law among judges and prosecutors, thus strengthening mutual trust. amongst other elements, it calls for increased cooperation between the ep and the venice commission, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and calls for the a role for the fundamental rights agency in the assessment.
in writing. - evaluation of justice in relation to criminal justice and the rule of law will make a fundamental contribution to creating a common understanding of the eu and strengthening a mutual trust among judges and prosecutors. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i worked in the media (radio and tv) for seventeen years. i believe in diversity of opinion and freedom of information and expression. all media forms, whether linear or non-linear, must respect the rules protecting children and human dignity, promoting cultural diversity, ensuring transparency, media quality, equality of opportunities, fair competition, and safeguarding media pluralism.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a resolution on preparation for a fully converged audiovisual world. i support this because i believe that it is extremely important that the eu engage in a broad public debate on the topic and create a plan of action for addressing the needs of this media environment.
in writing. - this resolution on preparing for a fully converged audiovisual world can ensure the diversity of opinion as well as freedom of information, will respect the rules protecting children and human dignity and promoting cultural diversity. i voted in favour.
in writing. - 2013 was the year of citizens, and this year european citizens will have the opportunity to vote for the europe they want to see. citizens need to be at the heart of european policies, and it is important that they are made aware of their rights and opportunities that the cooperation in our european family gives them. the eu’s social and economic policies have been designed for them, and should ensure that all citizens are treated equally, without discrimination on any ground.
in writing. - i support this report and welcome the commission’s eu citizenship report 2013, which announces twelve new actions in six areas aimed at strengthening and defending eu citizens’ rights.
in writing. - i agree with the report on eu citizenship 2013. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office. i view the establishment of this office as a major step forward in the process of judicial cooperation between member states in criminal matters.
in writing. - the resolution on the european public prosecutor’s office will ensure a high level of security within the european union through legal norms preventing and combating crime, which is essential for the member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. - a constructive message is necessary towards turkey, which is a key partner for the eu and of strategic importance regarding energy, migration and many other issues. however, welcoming the annual progress report by the commission, we need to be very critical regarding developments in the rule of law and the judiciary. recent cycles of mass protests reflect that democracy needs to be strengthened. it is important that minorities are protected and that the freedom of the media is guaranteed, to meet standards that will allow for deeper cooperation between turkey and the eu.
in writing. - the report on progress in turkey 2013 states the internal political evaluation in turkey and expresses its concerns over the backsliding in areas of judicial and fundamental freedoms, criticising turkey for its shortcomings and giving it a fair chance to overcome them. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the eu strategy for the arctic.
in writing. - i support the outcome of the long negotiations, increasing the funding for malta related to irregular immigration. but it must be clear and be repeated that funding is not enough; we need an integrated and holistic approach with effective action by member states showing tangible results. we need a mechanism that obliges member states to help countries that receive an unequal share of immigrants. malta cannot be left alone.
in writing. - the european policy on the area of freedom, security and justice has developed at a steady rate in recent years. for this reason , i welcome the vote we took today on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the asylum and immigration fund the full budget for this asylum and immigration fund amounts to about 3. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new financial framework and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new financial framework. in accordance with the migration and asylum policy, this fund will contribute to support the common european asylum system as well as to facilitate legal emigration to the european union. it will also help to strengthen fair return strategies and increase solidarity and the sharing of responsibilities between member states. at the heart of these objectives, this fund will have an external dimension with a number of actions to be carried out in or concerning countries outside europe. with this report, the european union is showing that europe is capable of strengthening fair and effective return strategies and also capable of strengthening solidarity and responsibility-sharing among member states.
in writing. - this is a recommendation on the draft council decision concerning the ratification of, or the accession to, the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships, 2009, by the member states in the interests of the european union. there is a need for a step at global level to move towards safer and more environmentally sound recycling of non-eu ships. global action is required in order to achieve these goals, and the eu must lead by example ensuring a swift ratification of the hong kong convention.
in writing. - ratification of the hong kong international convention at the national levels will take a step at global level to move towards safer and more environmentally sound ship recycling. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report criticises the role of the trojka in the countries that needed financial aid of the eu in the past years (greece, cyprus, portugal, ireland). the report gives suggestions to tackle future problems.
in writing. - austerity only is not the solution to the crisis; we need assess country-specific circumstances and take into account the employment and social consequences of the programme. europe is more than economics. there cannot be economic development without social development at the same time.
in writing. - the european union needs a genuine european monetary fund to support counties in difficulties, based on eu law, that involves the european parliament in the decision-making process. i am in agreement with the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, because it reiterates that it is necessary to adopt an integrated approach to questions arising from the pressure of migration and asylum applications and regarding the management of eu external borders. the eu needs to make binding commitments to help countries that receive an unequal share of immigrants.
in writing. - it is important to establish the asylum, migration and internal security fund. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i supported this report, dealing with financial support for external borders and visas. we need a much more coherent approach to migration management and the fight against illegal immigration, including mandatory burden sharing.
in writing. - the internal security fund will help to ensure a high level of security within the union through measures to prevent and combat crime and measures for coordination and cooperation between law enforcement authorities and other national authorities of member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i supported this report, dealing with financial support for external borders and visas. we need a much more coherent approach to migration management and the fight against illegal immigration, including mandatory burden sharing.
in writing. - the internal security fund will ensure an integrated approach to issues arising from migration pressures and security of the external borders of the european union. i voted in favour on this report.
in writing. - a high common level of network and information security will result in the privacy and integrity of citizens being safeguarded. i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - i agree with the report on the european union programme in the field of financial reporting and auditing 2014-2020 as we also voted in favour in committee.
in writing. - new phone, different charger? mobile phone chargers have been a problem for years. with this agreement there will now be an obligation for manufacturers to produce compatible, common chargers for mobile phones, smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, music players and similar devices. this is the first time that eu legislation obliging manufacturers to produce compatible chargers is adopted. so far there has only been a voluntary agreement of the manufacturers, which phased-out end of 2013. this will bring significant benefits for the consumers and reduce electronic waste.
in writing. - it is an interesting report, which could simplify our everyday life by introducing a common charger for mobile phones; reduce waste and costs as well, which will consequently be highly beneficial to consumers. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report calls for the creation of employment - in particular youth employment as key priority for the budget 2015, besides the investment in education and mobility, research and innovation, smes and entrepreneurship, renewable energy and infrastrutures. similar to the approach in 2014 budget, a frontloading of the youth employment initiative, erasmus+ and cosme shall be included in the 2015 budget.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on general guidelines for the preparation of the 2015 budget, section iii – commission.
in writing. - the eu needs a united voice in condemning all violence and finding diplomatic ways out of this crisis.
in writing. - i support this joint motion for a resolution on the invasion of ukraine by russia.
in writing. - this report is on the implementation of the treaty of lisbon with respect to the european parliament. the draft report concentrates on the relationship between the european parliament and the commission, it calls on governments to clarify how they will "honour" the eu citizens' vote when they put forward a commission president candidate.
in writing. - the report on implementation of the treaty of lisbon with respect to the european parliament concentrates on the relationship between the european parliament and the european commission, it calls on governments to clarify how they will ‘honour’ the eu citizens’ vote when they put forward a candidate for commission president. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report focuses on the role of property rights, property ownership and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and fostering sustainable development in developing countries. article 17 of the universal declaration of human rights states that ‘everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others‘ and that ‘no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property‘. nevertheless, 1.2 billion people worldwide occupy properties for which they don’t hold formal rights, live without permanent homes or access to land altogether. moreover, although the mdgs recognised the need to address the security of slum inhabitants and urban squatters in developing countries and committed to account for at least 100 million slum inhabitants by 2020, the target is far from being on track; 90% of new urban settlements in sub-saharan africa are taking the form of slums and 3 billion people are estimated to reside in slums by 2050. dispute mechanisms are an essential aspect of security, while decentralisation in land management and administration is needed.
in writing. this report is about on the eu 2013 report on policy coherence for development. the concept of policy coherence for development (pcd) appeared for the first time in eu development policy in 2006 and it has been included in the lisbon treaty through article 208. pcd has become a comprehensive policy-making tool. its purpose is to prevent inconsistencies from arising from the policies pursued by the eu and so avoid adverse repercussions for developing countries. the report deplores the fact that, in the absence of a communication, which was initially planned, the commission has submitted a mere working document. -
in writing. - policy coherence for development is a comprehensive policy-making tool. its purpose is to prevent inconsistencies from arising from the policies pursued by the eu and so avoid adverse repercussions for developing countries. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the resolution.
in recent years, under the leadership of the barroso commission, the european union has faced unprecedented challenges that it has not been able to meet. it was a time that plunged the european union into an economic crisis where governments pressured their citizens to cut costs. it was a time of diminishing business growth opportunities and a time of rising unemployment. however, although the european socialists and democrats, as well as the workers' unions, complained from the outset that cost cuts were not the solution, the commission and most european governments realised this somewhat too late. the results were and are devastating: the european union is committed to the development of a european social area, which will be a key element in the future development of the union. precarious employment across europe remains a reality we are still facing. throughout this crisis, when europe suffered substantial austerity, the political bulwark that defended the interests of wage-earners was the socialists and the european democrats. in this respect, i believe that europe needs an ideological intervention in favour of its citizens who work for a salary, a socialist and democratic intervention with a fresh new commission led by martin schulz.
my promise to the maltese electorate five years ago was that, from this parliament, i would work towards a more social europe, a europe that works more for equal rights for all. that is why, in this parliament over the last year, i have taken every opportunity to speak and work for women's rights, for workers' rights and also for those millions who live in poverty and poverty exclusion. in recent days, i had the satisfaction of hearing the maltese prime minister, joseph muscat, announce that children of irregular immigrants will no longer be held in detention centres. it was a great satisfaction to me to see this parliament insist on the empowerment of women, the fight against poverty, and more rights and conditions for workers. nevertheless, we are still far from reaching our goal. my regret is to hear that the targets we have set will not be met. i therefore hope and assure you that, during the next legislature, you will continue and strengthen all the work to make europe truly more social, so that every citizen of this european union can live in a more just society.
in writing. - if we really believe in a social europe, if we really want to have a fair society, we cannot exclude people who are still able to work and who believe they can continue to contribute to our society, not even in the labour market. we must be clear. if he reaches retirement age and wishes to retire from work, we should not be the ones to force him to continue working. in 2012, the employment rate of people aged 55-64 was below 50% in the european union. 54 . 4% were male and 41. 8% women. in some member states this rate has fallen to around 30%. this could be due to outdated skills and qualifications, employers' attitudes towards older workers, difficulties in reconciling work and family, and even the health of the workers themselves. it is timely, mr president, that member states recognise the need for information to analyse the socioeconomic situation of older workers and to have measures and actions that make it possible to take good decisions for the future. i also believe that the european commission should put more emphasis on combating age discrimination against older workers. we should do this because we truly believe in who should continue to make their contribution, and not because we want to exploit older workers because of the economic situation of a member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which emphasises the need for effective tools to track expenditure from the european social fund in regard to older workers who choose to remain active in the labour force past retirement age for various reasons. i believe that it is necessary to support older workers who choose to remain in the workforce, because they are invaluable in terms of experience in their respective fields and they contribute to the eu’s economic recovery and future prosperity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which proposes that the european social fund can make a valuable contribution to the training of older workers across all eu member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls for the immunity of mario borghezio in connection with proceedings before an italian court not to be defended. according to the notice served by the prosecutorʼs office of the italian republic, mep mario borghezio, during his radio interview of april 2013, used offensive expressions for the purpose of ethnic and racial discrimination targeting the roma community.
in writing. - the eu should deny visas to, and freeze the eu assets of, 32 russian officials involved in the death of russian lawyer sergei magnitsky, its judicial cover-up and the continuing harassment of his family. the resolution also names the officials.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a number of russian officials responsible for the death of russian lawyer sergei magnitsky to be included in the eu-wide visa ban and freezing of assets in order to send a clear signal that the european union prioritises human rights and fundamental freedoms in its relations with russia.
in writing. - this dossier reaffirms parliamentʼs commitment on different issues, including women and children. it is to be noted that the commitment to the implementation of un security council resolutions on women, peace and security which recognise the disproportionate impact of war on women, but also their cardinal role in conflict management, conflict resolution and sustainable peace, is a step in the right direction. fighting impunity in conflict-related sexual violence, ensuring the consolidation of further accountability and preventive measures, and preventive measures regarding sexual crimes and abuses, and support to victims, and prioritising ending child marriage are also commendable. it is to be noted that climate change and active participation in the debate on the term ‘climate refugee’, including its possible legal definition in international law or in any legally binding international agreement, is also a step in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which calls for european parliament recommendations to the council on the 69th session of the united nations general assembly. i voted this way because i recognise the united nations as a core element of the european union’s external policy, aligned with the same common beliefs and working towards the same global goals.
in writing. - i supported this report, which discusses parliamentʼs yearly recommendations for the 69th session of the united nations general assembly starting in september 2014. i agree that specific measures have to be taken in order to improve the situation of human rights in all un member countries.
in writing. - i have worked for almost 17 years in journalism. as a veteran, i believe that the eu should devise a robust media broadcasting strategy aimed at promoting freedom of expression, media pluralism and strengthening democracy and human rights within its foreign policy.
in writing. - i support this report which discusses the role of broadcasting media in projecting the european union and its values, because broadcast media is an effective, powerful, and inexpensive way to reach european citizens across the continent and far beyond, and send messages regarding european union values including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i am in agreement with this recommendation regarding the role of broadcasting media in projecting the eu and its values.
in writing. - noise limits for cars will be tightened to protect public health, under new rules informally agreed with eu ministers and endorsed now by parliament. the new law requires the introduction of labels to inform buyers of the noise levels of new cars, as well as the addition of sound to hybrid and electric vehicles to alert pedestrians.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report which seeks to reduce the sound level of motor vehicles through noise limit values for vehicles, clearer labelling and consumer information, the implementation of acoustic vehicle alerting systems, and the addressing of road service issues because these standards will help to protect both the health of european citizens and the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to upgrade the current legislation to reduce the sound level of motor vehicles. i agree that specific measures need to be taken in order to protect eu citizens from a serious risk to health caused by traffic noise – one of the most widespread environmental problems in the eu.
in writing. - i support this report for a directive of the european parliament and of the council to amend council directive 64/432/eec in regard to computer databases which are part of the surveillance networks in the member states. in order to maintain consistency with the commission’s proposal to recognise eid as a means of bovine identification, it is vital to harmonise these laws.
in writing. - i am not in agreement with the report on computer databases which are part of the surveillance networks in the member states.
in writing. - this is a highly important piece of legislation which will streamline the eu’s ability to act quickly and more efficiently with measures to enforce its trading rights coming from dispute settlement decisions. not only will this protect eu industry more effectively, it will also encourage greater compliance from trading partners. the vote was on the outcome of a trilogue, and the ep team had to fight hard to protect parliament’s right of scrutiny and for a review of the legislation in three years’ time.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report which calls for a proposal of the european parliament and of the council concerning the exercise of the union’s rights for the application and enforcement of international trade rules. i support this because the european union does not currently have a horizontal legislative framework that serves to enforce its rights under the world trade organisation and other international trade agreements. implementing the proposed instrument would strengthen the enforcement of the european union’s trade rights, and would convince european union trading partners to respect the rules laid out in trade agreements.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes a horizontal legislative framework in order to enforce rights under the world trade organization and other international trade agreements.
in writing. - the legislation establishes a new regime for imports of rice into the eu following the lisbon treaty. in trilogues parliament, and in particular our group, defended the right to core labour standards for farmers and rural workers producing such rice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on imports of rice originating in bangladesh because i believe that the alignment of current objectives with legislation from the past in this area will strengthen eu-bangladesh trading relations.
in writing. - i supported this report, which discusses the preferential agreements for import of rice from bangladesh.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices as well as amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) no 178/2002 and regulation (ec) no 1223/2009. i support this report because it aims to address inconsistencies in the interpretation of current rules, which will, in turn, increase the protection of public health and safety of european citizens, remove obstacles to the internal market, and enhance transparency with regard to information for patients.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which calls for improved patient safety and better protection of patients from defective medical devices through a more effective and efficient system for granting market access. patient safety is essential and therefore the existing framework for medical devices needs to be updated substantially.
in writing. - in-vitro medical devices (ivds) are devices intended for diagnostic purposes, i.e. tests which are carried out outside the human body (in vitro). this product group covers a huge variety of tests, ranging from self-tests to measure blood sugar values, to hiv and dna tests. the quality of such tests is crucial, as proper treatment is not possible without precise diagnosis. in the past there have been cases of low quality in-vitro devices. this poses a serious threat to patient safety.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on in-vitro diagnostic medical devices. i support this report because in-vitro medical devices are useful tools for tests such as self-tests for blood sugar measuring, hiv tests, and dna tests. this regulation will help ensure only high quality equipment is available on the market to reduce risks of life-threatening false negative results in order to ensure the safety of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which calls for improved patient safety and better protection of patients from defective medical devices through a more effective and efficient system for granting market access. patient safety is essential and therefore it is important to increase the quality of in-vitro devices.
in writing. - the new accounts will contribute to further developing more comprehensive indicators for better public debate and policy making.
in writing. - i support this report which calls for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 691/2011 on european environmental economic accounts, because environmental accounting is a complementary and sustainable tool to gdp for measuring the progress and wellbeing of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of regulation on the european environmental economic accounts, which proposes to introduce new accounts on environmental protection expenditure, environmental goods and services and energy flow. the new accounts will contribute to further developing more comprehensive indicators for better public debate and policy making. this regulation is mainly a task for the statistical services of the member states.
in writing. - the legislative proposal which is the subject of this report is the result of an awareness-raising campaign that concluded with the inclusion of a parliament amendment on the report on an agenda for change, calling on the commission to declare 2015 european year for development. the european year is designed to raise public awareness of the european union’s work in developing countries. the motto will be ‘our world, our dignity, our future’. 2015 will be a test of the degree to which the european union’s development policy is accepted. both its achievements and its new objectives will need to be highlighted. although the budget is modest, it will offer the eu and the organisations active in the development field an opportunity to present their work, to familiarise the public with the basic principles of international cooperation and to introduce the eu to our partners in the south.
in writing. - i support this report which calls for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european year of development (2015). i support this initiative to raise public awareness of the european union’s work in developing countries and promote the idea of ‘dignity for all’ outside of the european union in the year 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the european year for development (2015),which calls for the raising of public awareness on the european union’s work in developing countries. the slogan of the awareness-raising campaign will be ‘our world, our dignity, our future’.
in writing. - the proposal for a decision concerns the establishment of a european service which will seek to prevent collisions between spacecraft or between spacecraft and debris, and monitor the uncontrolled re-entry of complete spacecraft or parts thereof. following the approach envisaged in the commission communication entitled ‘towards a space strategy for the european union that benefits its citizens’ of 2012, this decision allows for the definition of a partnership, whereby member states will contribute with their existing and future assets to the sst capability at european level, and the union will provide a legal framework and a financial contribution to the implementation of the actions defined. the framework defines the governance scheme and the data policy in accordance with the relevant council conclusions. the proposed european sst services accommodate an essential objective of the eu’s space industry policy, namely to achieve european technological non-dependence in critical domains, and to maintain independent access to space.
in writing. - i have voted in support of this report on a decision to establish a space surveillance and tracking support programme. i support this because the proposed programme seeks to contribute to building up an independent european space surveillance and tracking capability aimed at preventing and monitoring the growing risk of collision between space infrastructures and other spacecraft or space debris.
in writing. - this report on the space surveillance and tracking support framework concerns the establishment of european services which will seek to prevent collisions between spacecraft or between spacecraft and debris, and monitor uncontrolled re-entry of complete spacecraft or parts thereof. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the expenditure management regulation is a horizontal regulation which consists of a set of financial provisions and fits in the ‘smarter rules for safer food’ legislative package. this regulation aims to simplify the legislative framework and repeal and amend 11 existing acts. the regulation rationalises the funding rates by laying down 3 maximum rates of 50%, 75% (for cross-border activities and for member states with a gross per capita gni below 90% of the eu average) and 100% (for activities to control serious health risks). the regulation also proposes specific indicators to improve impact assessment.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down provisions for the management of expenditure relating to the food chain, animal health and animal welfare, and relating to plant health and plant reproductive material through the amendment and repeal of a number of directives, regulations, and council decisions. i support this regulation, which is a part of the ‘smarter rules for safer food’ legislative package, because it aims to simplify the legislative framework for the safety of the food supply chain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation which consists of a set of financial provisions and fits in the ‘smarter rules for safer foodʼ legislative package. this regulation aims to simplify the existing legislative framework.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 on the establishment of a flegt licensing scheme for imports of timber into the european community because i believe that this scheme is crucial to addressing and combating the issue of illegal logging and associated trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which is an file aligning the forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) licensing scheme for legal imports of timber and timber products into the european community with new rules under the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - pharmaceutical companies and academic researchers will have to post the results of all their european clinical trials in a publicly-accessible database, under a draft law already informally agreed with eu ministers and now passed by parliament. the law also facilitates cross-border cooperation to make clinical trials larger, more viable and more reliable, which should in turn boost efforts to develop special treatments, e.g. for rare diseases.
in writing. - i support this report, which calls for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use because i agree that the current legislation on clinical trials urgently needs to be revised. europe should be a world leader in both patient safety and transparency, in the interest of public trust and good science, and i believe that this regulation will help the european union in achieving those goals.
in writing. - i supported this report which proposes upgrading existing legislation on clinical trials. simplifying the euʼs rules on running clinical trials will improve patient safety and constitute a huge step forward for transparency in clinical trials. the upgrading of the existing legislation will be beneficial for attracting clinical research and boosting europeʼs competitiveness and innovation capacity.
in writing. - in the aftermath of the fukushima accident, the commission, together with the european nuclear safety regulators’ group (ensreg), carried out stress tests, which resulted in a number of recommendations and a suggestion to change the nuclear safety directive. this proposal thus aims at amending, strengthening and supplementing the nuclear safety directive, by combining technical improvements with wider safety issues such as governance, transparency and on-site preparedness and response.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a council directive amending directive 2009/71/euratom establishing a community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations. i support this because i believe that there is a need for a common eu framework on nuclear safety as well as a need to frequently update this framework to maintain the highest level of protection possible for european citizens.
in writing. - i supported this report, which calls for the nuclear safety directive to be strengthened and supplemented by combining technical improvements with wider safety issues such as governance, transparency and on-site preparedness and response. in the aftermath of the fukushima accident these recommendations are essential for the nuclear safety directive.
in writing. - i voted against this report. first of all, many of the amendments are not considered appropriate in a legal text. in some cases the proposed language reduces the clarity of the text. furthermore, it is not clear what the wording used in amendments 13 and 14 on ‘effective tax rate’ will mean in practice. this may be used against malta’s tax regime, and is therefore not in the national interest.
in writing. - this report on a common system of taxation contains positive elements, but there are a number of proposed amendments, which not only add to the administrative burdens of both financial intelligence units and service providers but extend the scope to cover all products under the payment services directive, making it effectively unworkable. therefore i have voted against.
in writing. - the stockholm programme is a multi-annual (2009-2014) strategic document, which aims to create the area of freedom, security and justice in europe. although i voted in favour, there were elements in the text where i voted against, such as those calling for an extension of tasks of the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo), or the establishment of a european border guards system.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on mid-term review of the stockholm programme, which is a multiannual (2009-2014) strategic document and aims to create the area of freedom, security and justice in europe.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 428/2009 setting up a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual use items because the european union’s current export control system is extremely outdated and reflects 2010 decisions. there is a need for harmonisation within the eu on this basis in order to ensure european union credibility with other countries that use the european union lists as a scale for their controls
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which discusses amendment of the current regulation for export controls for dual-use items. the proposed amendments relate to stronger control mechanisms and the need to control information and communication technology exports that can be used for human rights violations, such as mass surveillance.
in writing. - i support this report because it will help the european union meet its goals of reducing emissions from international aviation and will ensure the competitiveness of european air transport.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a new proposal that would work essentially with an airspace approach, under which only a specific proportion of emissions from flights to and from third countries are covered under the european emission trading system scheme.
in writing. - the use of payments by card should benefit retailers and consumers, and thereby facilitate the creation of a unified, transparent and competitive eu market. regulations should avoid the use of different approaches throughout the member states, which tend to be to the detriment of consumers. the mere harmonisation of costs between member states will save customers in the eu eur[nbsp ]731 million a year. a single practice will open up a variety of innovative payment options.
in writing. - this proposal is a review of the first payment services directive, which entered into force in 2007, to reflect new market developments. it is closely linked to the regulation on multilateral interchange fees (mif). it strengthens the provisions on consumer protection, notably by an unconditional right to reimbursement if an article paid for with a debit card does not arrive, an obligation to refund an unauthorised payment within a maximum of 24 hours, and a limitation of the amount of money that can be blocked by a merchant on a consumer’s account for transactions where the final sum is not known in advance.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report which seeks to lay down measures concerning the european single market for electronic communications and to achieve a connected continent. this will mean that as of december 2015, people will be able to use their mobile phones to make calls, send emails or upload photos to a social network without having to pay extra, exorbitant roaming rates simply because they are in a different eu member state. this is a huge step towards finally seeing a proper functioning single market for telecommunications become a reality.
in writing. - i support this report, which calls to end the roaming costs for all in the eu from december 2015 and for an open and accessible internet for everyone.
in writing. - the purpose of this regulation is to guarantee the mutual recognition of notified electronic identification and authentication schemes but without imposing any obligation for eu member states to introduce national electronic identity cards, or to introduce a european id system. the purpose is to establish a clear legal framework, to eliminate fragmentation and the lack of interoperability, to enhance digital citizenship and to prevent cybercrime. the parliament managed to have clear articles on data protection in the compromise text.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes a common framework for secure, trustworthy and easy-to-use electronic transactions and encompasses electronic identifications, authentication and trust services.
in writing. - this reform will not reinforce the reliability of audit reports and will not prevent the next crisis. today’s reporting is cost intensive, but does not provide sufficient insight into the annual accounts of listed companies. we want independent auditors to provide independent reports.
in writing. - i have voted in support of this package on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities because it contains amendments to the provisions on the approval and registration of auditors and audit firms, on the existing principles in directive 2006/43/ec regarding professional ethics, professional secrecy, independence and reporting as well as the associated supervision rules.
in writing. - i have voted against this report on statutory audit of public-interest entities, in line with the s&d policy.
in writing. - this reform will not reinforce the reliability of audit reports and will not prevent the next crisis. today’s reporting is cost intensive, but does not provide sufficient insight into the annual accounts of listed companies. we want independent auditors to provide independent reports.
in writing. - i have voted in support of this package on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities because it contains amendments to the provisions on the approval and registration of auditors and audit firms, on the existing principles in directive 2006/43/ec regarding professional ethics, professional secrecy, independence and reporting as well as the associated supervision rules.
in writing. - i have voted against this report on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, in line with the s&d policy.
in writing. - about 98% of the customs duties that ukrainian iron, steel, farm produce and machinery exporters pay at eu borders will be removed by a proposal backed by european parliament on thursday. this unilateral measure will boost ukraine’s struggling economy by saving its manufacturers and exporters eur 487 million a year.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement between the european union and ukraine.
in writing. - a comprehensive approach to eu foreign policy must become a reality. the eu’s external policy needs a fresh approach, with effective coordination among eu institutions and member states and coherent use of their foreign policy tools becoming reality. the lack of coherent eu action in many recent conflicts has damaged its credibility as a global actor and security provider.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the eu comprehensive approach and its implications for the coherence of eu external action because i believe that it is essential to have a harmonised external approach continuing into the future.
in writing. - it is essential to have a fresh approach to the eu’s external policy with its effective coordination among the eu institutions and member states. i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - national governments manage 80% of the money involved in european programmes and projects, and it is hard to identify any which are entirely problem free. they need to shoulder their full responsibilities in programme delivery. the report calls for the council to report back to parliament on progress before the next discharge procedure begins at the end of this year. simplification and real performance must be at the heart of the new programmes, so that from january 2014 we will have used the lessons the past – 2012 included – to make european funding work harder for people and businesses in our regions and to help develop the innovation and competitiveness europe needs more than ever.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which discusses a new form of budget discharge and will help develop innovation and competitiveness for europe.
in writing. - overall, the special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. this complements the horizontal approach of the annual report of the court on the implementation of the eu budget which forms the basis for parliament’s work on discharge for the various institutions.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the court of auditors’ special reports in the context of the 2012 commission discharge, which give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas.
in writing. - the european development fund is the main eu aid instrument for development cooperation in africa, the caribbean, and pacific countries and the overseas countries and territories aiming at reducing and eventually eradicating poverty, one of the core political priorities.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge: eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds. the european development fund is the main eu aid instrument for development cooperation in africa, the caribbean, and pacific countries and the overseas countries and territories, aiming at reducing and eventually eradicating poverty.
in writing. - with the discharge decision parliament fulfils its role of controlling, monitoring and scrutinising how the eu budget is spent. via the discharge, parliament closes the accounts of the individual institutions, thus making sure that each euro paid by eu citizens and taxpayers into the union budget is accounted for. a different legal view persists between parliament and the council as regards the discharge to the latter. parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge: european council and council. it is important that the european parliament with its discharge decision fulfils its role of controlling and monitoring how the eu budget is spent. the european parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge: european external action service. it is important that the european parliament with its discharge decision fulfils its role of controlling and monitoring how the eu budget is spent. the european parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue.
in writing. - i support this report which seeks to ensure that legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine animals is clear and enforceable. addressing current challenges in this area, including simplification of the rules governing the labelling of beef, updates to regulations on electronic identification, and the updating of the commission’s powers, will help optimise food safety within the european union.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which promotes the latest technological developments, such as electronic identification of bovine animals, and deletes the provisions on voluntary beef labelling.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge: court of justice. it is important that the european parliament with its discharge decision fulfils its role of controlling and monitoring how the eu budget is spent. the european parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue.
in writing. - i support the report on the 2012 discharge: court of auditors. it is important that the european parliament with its discharge decision fulfils its role of controlling and monitoring how the eu budget is spent. the european parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge: economic and social committee. it is important that the european parliament with its discharge decision fulfils its role of controlling and monitoring how the eu budget is spent. the european parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge: committee of the regions. it is important that the european parliament with its discharge decision fulfils its role of controlling and monitoring how the eu budget is spent. the european parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge: european ombudsman. it is important that the european parliament with its discharge decision fulfils its role of controlling and monitoring how the eu budget is spent. the european parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue.
in writing. - i support this report on the 2012 discharge: european data protection supervisor. it is important that the european parliament with its discharge decision fulfils its role of controlling and monitoring how the eu budget is spent. the european parliament is determined to further explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this interinstitutional issue.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. we believe the level of scrutiny and the amount of resources and staff time which the agencies have to devote to providing public information must not be disproportionate.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge: performance, financial management and control of eu agencies, which discusses the agencies of the european union and their importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the network of the agencies is strong and they are working together with the european commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators works to further progress on the completion of the internal energy market both for electricity and for natural gas.
in writing. - i support this report on the 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators with the aim of exercising at community level the tasks performed by the member states’ regulatory authorities.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the european agency for electronic communications in terms of delivering the goals and results of the eu policies.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1% of eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the translation centre for the bodies of the european union supports numerous agencies and offices in the accurate translation of important communications.
in writing. - i am in agreement with this report on 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in terms of its support to numerous agencies and offices in the accurate translation of important communications.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european centre for the development of vocational training supports development of european vocational education and training (vet) policies and contributes to their implementation.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the european centre for the development of vocational training. this european agency supports development of european vocational education and training policies and contributes to their implementation.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european police college brings together senior police officers from police forces in europe – essentially to support the development of a network – and encourages cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, public security and law and order by organising training activities and research findings.
in writing. - i support this report on the 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the european police college for the safety and security of eu citizens.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european aviation safety agency works to keep air transport safe and sustainable, allowing for growth and improved safety.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of european aviation safety agency with its regulatory and executive tasks in the field of civilian aviation safety.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european asylum support office plays a key role in the concrete development of the common european asylum system. it was established with the aim of enhancing practical cooperation on asylum matters and helping member states fulfil their european and international obligations to give protection to people in need.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the european asylum support office with its aim of enhancing practical cooperation on asylum matters, and helping member states fulfil their european and international obligations to give protection to people in need.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european banking authority works to ensure effective and consistent prudential regulation and supervision across the european banking sector. its overall objectives are to maintain financial stability in the eu and to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of the banking sector.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the european banking authority which works to ensure effective and consistent prudential regulation and supervision across the european banking sector.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european centre for disease prevention and control has as its aim strengthening europeʼs defences against infectious diseases.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the european centre for disease prevention and control with its aim to strengthen europe’s defences against infectious diseases.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european chemicals agency is a regulatory authority in implementing the euʼs groundbreaking chemicals legislation for the benefit of human health and the environment, as well as for innovation and competitiveness.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european chemical agency that helps companies to comply with the legislation, advances the safe use of chemicals, provides information on chemicals and addresses chemicals of concern.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european environment agency has the task of providing sound, independent information on the environment.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european environmental agency in providing a major information source for those involved in developing, adopting, implementing and evaluating environmental policy as well as for the general public.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european fisheries control agency was set up to promote the highest common standards for control, inspection and surveillance under the common fisheries policy (cfp).
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european fisheries control agency, with main goals to coordinate the operational activities of member states in the area of fisheries, and provide assistance to the member states in their application of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european food safety authority is the keystone of eu risk assessment regarding food and food safety. in close collaboration with national authorities and in open consultation with its stakeholders, efsa provides independent scientific advice and clear communication on existing and emerging risks.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european food safety authority that provides independent scientific advice and communication on existing and emerging risks associated with the food chain.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european institute for gender equality supports the eu and its member states in their efforts to promote gender equality, to fight discrimination based on sex and to raise awareness about gender equality issues.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european institute for gender equality that gathers, analyses and disseminates reliable and comparable research data and information needed by policy-makers.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is part of the european system of financial supervision consisting of three european supervisory authorities and the european systemic risk board. it works to support the stability of the financial system, transparency of markets and financial products as well as the protection of insurance policyholders, pension scheme members and beneficiaries.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european insurance and occupational pension authority and its responsibilities to support the stability of the financial system, transparency of markets and financial products as well as the protection of insurance policyholders, pension scheme members and beneficiaries.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european institute of innovation and technology works to enhance europe’s ability to innovate, which translates into adapting quickly to the fast pace of development, providing solutions to rapidly emerging societal problems and developing products that meet the demands and desires of consumers.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the important role of the european institute of innovation and technology, which is designed to assist innovation, research and growth in the european union.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european medicines agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by pharmaceutical companies for use in the european union.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european medicines agency with its main responsibility is the protection and promotion of public and animal health, through the evaluation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction exists to provide the eu and its member states with a factual overview of european drug problems and a solid evidence base to support the drugs debate.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction with its role to gather, analyse and disseminate ‘factual, objective, reliable and comparable information’ on drugs and drug addiction and to provide its audiences with a sound and evidence-based picture of the drug phenomenon at european level.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european maritime safety agency provides technical assistance and support to the commission and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution by ships and maritime security.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european maritime safety agency with its responsibility to reduce the risk of maritime accidents, marine pollution from ships and the loss of human lives at sea by helping to enforce the pertinent eu legislation.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european network and information security agency works to enhance the capability of the eu, the eu member states and the business community to prevent, address and respond to network and information security problems.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the important role of the european network and information security agency, which has to contribute to the development of a culture of network and information security for the benefit of the citizens, consumers, enterprises and public sector organisations of the european union, and consequently will contribute to the smooth functioning of the eu internal market.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european railway agency works to provide the eu member states and the commission with technical assistance in the fields of railway safety and interoperability.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the important role of the european railway agency, which was established to create a competitive european railway area, by increasing cross-border compatibility of national systems, and in parallel ensuring the required level of safety.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european securities and markets authority works to enhance the protection of investors and reinforce stable and well functioning financial markets in the european union.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the important role of the european securities and market authority, which works in the field of securities legislation and regulation to improve the functioning of financial markets in europe, strengthening investor protection and cooperation between national competent authorities.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european training foundation helps transition and developing countries to harness the potential of their human capital through the reform of education, training and labour market systems in the context of the euʼs external relations policy.
in writing. - i support this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the important role of the european training foundation, which helps improve vocational training systems in non-eu countries, mostly in neighbouring regions such as the countries preparing for eu accession, north africa, the middle east, the balkans and the former soviet union.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european agency for safety and health at work works to make europe a safer, healthier and more productive place to work by promoting a culture of risk prevention to improve working conditions in europe.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the european agency for safety and health at work with its task of collecting, analysing and disseminating relevant information that can serve the needs of people involved in safety and health at work.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the euratom supply agency works to ensure a regular and equitable supply of nuclear fuels to eu users.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the euratom supply agency with its purpose of creating a specialist market for nuclear power in europe, developing nuclear energy and distributing it to its member states.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is a tripartite european union agency, whose role is to provide knowledge in the area of social and work-related policies.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the importance of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. eurojust stimulates and improves the coordination of investigations and prosecutions between the competent authorities in the member states and improves the cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states, in particular by facilitating the execution of international mutual legal assistance and the implementation of extradition requests.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of the eurojust agency dealing with judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. europol is the eu’s law enforcement agency whose main goal is to help achieve a safer europe for the benefit of all eu citizens.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the important role of europol, the european union's law enforcement agency that handles criminal intelligence.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european union agency for fundamental rights helps to ensure that the fundamental rights of people living in the eu are protected.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the important role of the european union agency for fundamental rights, which is collecting and analysing data on fundamental rights in the european union.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex) promotes, coordinates and develops eu border management in line with the eu charter of fundamental rights, applying the concept of integrated border management.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the important role of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders which is responsible for coordinating the activities of the national border guards in ensuring the security of the eu’s borders with non-member states.
in writing. - the agencies of the european union have vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu budget. there is now good progress being made in terms of the agencies sharing best practice and, where feasible, support services. their network is strong and they are working with the commission to implement the roadmap on decentralised agencies. our group supports the agencies in their many areas of work, e.g. to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is of clear benefit to eu citizens and their performance is improving year on year. as an official european union regulatory authority, the european gnss agency (gsa) manages public interests related to european gnss programmes.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the important role of the european gnss agency, which is created to ensure that essential public interests are properly defended and represented in connection with european union’s satellite navigation programmes.
in writing. - the joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public private partnerships to support research, technological development and demonstration activities and to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies. domains covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnologies, computing technologies, cleaner aviation technologies, and nuclear fusion. however, complex the organisations, the need for the budget to be discharged remains the same. effective implementation of expenditure, good management of human resources, conflicts of interest, and procurement are all examined in parliamentʼs reports on the joint undertakings.
in writing. - i support this report on the 2012 discharge which discusses the artemis joint undertaking (for the artemis industry association group) and its important role in implementing the research agenda for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded computing systems, by creating a sustainable public-private partnership and leveraging and increasing private and public investment in the sector of embedded systems in europe. the joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, technological development and demonstration activities in order to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies.
in writing. - i support this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the clean sky joint undertaking, which takes a significant step towards changes to the environmental impact of aviation. the joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, technological development and demonstration activities in order to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the essential role of eniac joint undertaking, focusing on nanoelectronics, which brings together the eniac member states, the european union, and an association representing european r&d actors in this field. the joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, technological development and demonstration activities in order to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge that discusses the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking with its essential role to accelerate the market by introducing the new technologies, realising their potential as an instrument in achieving a carbon-lean energy system. the joint undertakings bring together industry and research bodies in public-private partnerships to support research, technological development and demonstration activities in order to accelerate the market introduction of specific technologies.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on 2012 discharge, which discusses the joint undertaking for innovative medicines initiative and its important role in increasing the development of better and safer medicines for patients.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on the 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy with its aim of demonstrating the scientific and technical feasibility of fusion as an energy source.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on 2012 discharge, which discusses the important role of the sesar joint undertaking that gives europe a high-performance air traffic management infrastructure which will enable the safe and environmentally friendly development of air transport.
in writing. - this report welcomes the incremental improvements where they exist, and also calls on member states to work more closely with the commission and olaf to increase deterrence, detection and legal action in cases of fraud. new legislative initiatives are welcomed as well as the first eu anti-corruption report. the variety of ways in which member states address the problem of fraud at every stage is one of the biggest obstacles to progress, hence the emphasis – as in previous years – on the need for a more uniform approach from them.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report which seeks to protect the european union’s financial interests and fight against fraud. this report analyses the progress that has been made in this area as well as the remaining efforts that need to be taken to achieve our goals. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the annual report for 2012 on protection of the eu’s financial interests, which discusses tax fairness, the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance in the eu member states.
in writing. - the eu should exploit the current window of opportunity of nuclear talks and internal developments in iran, which favour both domestic reform and better eu-iran relations. the resolution also calls on the eu to be more active in addressing the human rights situation and in supporting civil society in iran. the resolution strikes the right balance between criticisms of iran, especially on human rights, and constructive engagement. the eu should seize on the opportunities created by the election of a moderate president in iran and an interim agreement on the nuclear issue. a critical, but constructive engagement with iran is the only way to solve bilateral problems and help set iran on the path to greater democracy and respect for human rights.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes new opportunities for political dialogue with iran. it is essential to support a new strategy towards iran in order to solve bilateral problems and to promote greater democracy and respect for human rights.
in writing. - this report is about measures to ensure that banks shoulder the risks of failure rather than relying on taxpayers to bail them out. amongst other issues it ensures that banks, not taxpayers, guarantee deposits under eur[nbsp ]100[nbsp ]000 in the event of a run on a bank. these measures complement the single bank supervision system, already in place, and take the eu far down the road towards banking union.
in writing. - this proposal aims to effectively deal with bank failures in such a way as to minimise the cost for the taxpayer and preserve the integrity of the member states’ banking markets participating in the single supervisory mechanism to deal with failing banks. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes a single resolution mechanism and would break the link between banks and sovereigns by applying credible rules.
in writing. - this is an important report which i support. enhancing consumer protection measures in the fields of energy, telecommunications, postal services and public transport are crucial for europe’s citizens.
in writing. - i support this report, which calls on protection of consumers in utilities services, which are essential for a good quality of life.
in writing. - a well-structured policy with achievable short- and mid-term goals would be an asset to a sector with high potential such as the inland waterway vessels sector. the revision of directive 2006/87 is part of the second naiades programme presented by the european commission to promote inland waterway transport. the revision of the directive ensures the harmonisation and standardisation of inland navigation certificates to guarantee an equivalent level of safety and mutual recognition of the certificates. the report introduces additional environmental benefits by including a new chapter on specific requirements applicable to vessels powered by liquefied natural gas (lng) to be adopted by the commission on 31 december 2017.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report that will provide more legal certainty and will ensure that high safety standards on all eu waterways are maintained and that innovation and safety in the sector are not diluted.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for harmonisation and standardisation of inland navigation certificates to guarantee an equivalent level of safety and mutual recognition of certificates.
in writing. - customs fraud resulting from false declaration of origin of goods and misuse of the transit system amounts to eur 107.7 million. this causes a huge loss of revenue, there is an urgent need to act in order to combat fraud and preserve the eu’s own resources.
in writing. - the investigation and prevention of customs-related fraud must be strengthened. this report aims to do just that by increasing the exchange of information. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes creating conditions for an improved application of the law to fight customs fraud and preserve the eu own resources.
in writing. - labour force sample surveys including ad hoc modules are an important instrument to monitor european labour markets. in order to receive the most accurate data the surveys in the member states have to be organised in an effective and uniform manner with the possibility of reacting swiftly to short-term developments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in order to ensure that the eu laws concerned are made more accessible and transparent to europe’s citizens.
in writing. - i support the report on information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services.
in writing. - i support the report on information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services.
in writing. - the commission recommendation for a council decision concerns the accession of croatia to the convention 90/436/eec of 23 july 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises (‘the arbitration convention’), as amended by the convention of 21 december 1995 on the accession of austria, finland and sweden to the arbitration convention, the protocol of 25 may 1999 amending the arbitration convention, the convention signed on 8 december 2004 by the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia on their accession to the arbitration convention and the council decision of 23 june 2008 concerning the accession of bulgaria and romania to the arbitration convention. the arbitration convention establishes a legal framework for the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises by setting out an arbitration procedure that allows companies to ask for a review of the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises and dispute resolution mechanisms where double taxation occurs between enterprises of different member states. the convention thus enhances the conditions for cross-border activities in the internal market.
in writing. - i support croatia acceding to the convention of 23 july 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the report, which discusses the accession of croatia to the arbitration convention on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises.
in writing. - better governance is the way forward. europe’s fragmented rail systems have struggled to offset the gains made by aviation or to challenge the dominance of the road sector. the rail sector will also need major and coordinated investments in research and innovation that respond to business and user needs, and that contribute to completing the single european railway area (sera). the shift2rail joint undertaking (s2r ju) should contribute to completing the sera and to a faster and cheaper transition to a more attractive, competitive, efficient, integrated and sustainable european rail system, thereby supporting the competitiveness of the rail sector
in writing. - this report underlines the need for a public-private partnership in the rail sector and aims to provide a platform for the rail sector to work together with a view to driving innovation in the years to come. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i support this report, which discusses the important role of the joint undertaking for shift2rail that should contribute to completing the single european railway area and to a faster and cheaper transition to a more attractive, competitive, efficient, integrated and sustainable european rail system.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls for defence of the parliamentary immunity of alexander mirsky.
in writing. - green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in spain. the application relates to 1[nbsp ]146 redundancies in vdc technologies spa and one supplier operating in the electrical equipment manufacturing sector in italy, during the reference period from 26 february 2012 to 25 june 2012. the egaf funding of eur 3[nbsp ]010[nbsp ]985 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance with a view to re-integrating the 1[nbsp ]146 affected workers into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in trade patterns.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in connection with its application concerning technologies.
in writing. - green light for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in spain. the application relates to 285 redundancies in grupo santana and 15 suppliers and downstream users operating in the automotive sector in spain, during the reference period from 15 november 2011 to 15 march 2012. the egaf funding of eur 1[nbsp ]964[nbsp ]407 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance with a view to re-integrating the 285 redundant workers into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in trade patterns.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in connection with the application for grupo santana.
in writing. - the deposit guarantee schemes framework is one the three pillar of the banking union with the single supervisory mechanism and the resolution framework. the goal of this legislative proposal is to safeguard deposits under eur[nbsp ]100[nbsp ]000 in eu member states by a solid ex[nbsp ]ante funding for national funds financed by banks and not by taxpayers. the directive should be applied within 12 months after its entry into force (may 2015).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report so as to protect bank customers’ existing deposits, to maintain the future confidence of depositors and to help guarantee financial stability.
in writing. - i support this report on the framework of deposit guarantee schemes.
in writing. - there is a need to contribute to market development that will enhance sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs. let us give confidence to consumers and industry to invest in sustainable vehicles and alternative fuels infrastructures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a necessary instrument to help ease europe’s dependence on oil and will help improve the diversification and security of our energy supply.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which aims to help reducing the oil dependency and cutting greenhouse emissions from transport through the deployment of a eu network of clean energy recharging stations from 2020 to 2030.
high energy, electricity and water bills, among others, have continued to weigh on european consumers and households, not least in malta. the report mentions and recognises energy poverty. this was also acknowledged by the european commission, which in a parliamentary question i put to it replied that the phenomenon of vulnerability had led it to go ahead and carry out a study to identify what was happening. but consumers, families and people want immediate action. immediate action as the maltese government, led by prime minister joseph muscat, has done in the last few days, when it has implemented an electoral promise and introduced, as promised, cheap electricity and water bills for all families. from next year there will also be lower prices for electricity, energy and water for businesses. i call on all other member states to look after families and to follow the example of the maltese government if we really want a fair europe and a social europe.
in writing. - let us encourage the use of less polluting motors, many of which are heavier and hence less commercially attractive than traditional ones. trucks and buses with low-carbon alternatives would be allowed to exceed the current maximum weight by up to one tonne, depending on the weight of the alternative system. the report allows longer truck cabins if designed to cut emissions by improving aerodynamics or to prevent accidents, reduce blind spots or make the cab more rounded to push people clear, so that they are not run over. aerodynamic flaps up to 50 cm would be allowed at the rear of vehicles to reduce drag and emissions.
in writing. - we need to continue to work on road safety rules and help further reduce the emission of greenhouse gases across europe. i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. - i support this report, which proposes to allow longer truck cabins if designed to cut emissions by improving aerodynamics or to prevent accidents.
in writing. - the financial crisis that started in 2007 has shown that there is a significant lack of adequate tools at union level to effectively deal with unsound or failing credit institutions. such tools are, in particular, needed to prevent insolvency or, when insolvency occurs, to minimise negative repercussions by preserving the systemically important functions of the institution concerned. during the crisis, those challenges were a major factor that forced member states to save credit institutions using taxpayers’ money. while the possibility of public intervention always remains, the objective of a credible recovery and resolution framework is to obviate the need for such action to the greatest extent possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in order to establish an effective policy framework to better equip authorities with common and effective tools and powers to pre-emptively tackle bank crises, safeguard financial stability and minimise taxpayer exposure to losses during any possible insolvency.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the report on the framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms.
in writing. - ucits (undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities) are investment funds that have been established in accordance with the ucits directive (adopted in 1985). once registered in one eu country, a ucits fund can be freely marketed across the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favor of this proposal which aims to clarify and make clearer the rules regarding depository functions, remuneration policies and sanctions.
in writing. - i support this report, which discusses the important role of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. ucits are investment funds and can be freely marketed across the eu once they have been registered in one eu country.
in writing. - europe’s citizens want more transparency and comparability of fee information relating to bank accounts. we need to make it easier for people to switch between payment accounts, and end discrimination based on residency with respect to payment accounts. i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. - i am in agreement with this report, which aims to remedy the difficulties for many consumers in having access to a payment account, regardless of factors such as financial situation, employment status, credit history or place of residence in the eu.
in writing. - this is the first piece of legislation aimed at protecting small depositors since the protection of bank deposits up to eur[nbsp ]100 000 in 2010. it will protect small investors from risky and opaque investment products and ensure that they are fully informed when they invest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it tries to ensure that retail investors are able to understand the key features and risks of retail investment products.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls on protection for small investors from risky and opaque investment products and ensures that they are fully informed when they invest.
in writing. - i believe in a consistent position to support a system of rotation based on full equality, with all member states being equally entitled to provide a second judge. malta has always highlighted the principle of geographical balance. to this extent, the proposed selection system put forward in this report a priori cannot be accepted as it is against equality between member states. hence i voted against this report.
in writing. - increasing the number of judges at the general court in this manner does not take into consideration the need for full equality among member states to appoint a second judge to the country. i could not support the proposed system and have therefore voted against.
in writing. - i am not in agreement with the report, which calls to increase the number of judges at the general court.
in writing. - the deployment of a public and interoperable eu-wide emergency call system represents a very important achievement for the safety of european road users. the deployment of an eu-wide emergency call system in all cars will be a lifesaver. the ecall will allow the rescue services to respond more quickly, and it could save around 2[nbsp ]500 lives every year in the eu. the severity of injuries could also be considerably reduced in tens of thousands of cases.
in writing. - i support the ecall system and have voted in favour. this report ensures that ecalls are accessible to all citizens in europe as an eu-wide service, to hasten their deployment and to realise the full potential of ecall to save lives and diminish the severity of injuries.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which discusses the deployment of the interoperable eu-wide emergency call system 112 for the safety of european road users.
in writing. - these expected cost-savings and synergies should contribute to deploying high-speed internet for all everywhere in the eu, even in rural areas. the aim of this regulation is to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks by providing tools for more cost-effective deployment of new physical infrastructures, reduced administrative burdens, joint use of existing infrastructures, harmonised civil engineering works and by allowing more synergies between electronic communications network providers and companies tasked with managing public-service networks which are suitable to host electronic communications networks.
in writing. - broadband connectivity in europe is vital for european growth and innovation. i voted in favour of this report to render the deployment of high-speed networks less expensive and to increase their efficiency.
in writing. - i am in agreement with the report on introducing measures to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed internet for all and everywhere in the eu, even in rural areas.
in writing. - support for sustainable modes of transport on inland waterways through measures to encourage innovation and environmentally friendly vessels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it aims to enable progress towards a single uniform set of technical standards, providing more legal certainty and ensuring that proper adaptations to technical progress can be timely introduced, so as to ensure that high safety standards on all eu waterways are maintained.
in writing. - i am in agreement with this report, which calls for support for sustainable modes of transport through measures to encourage innovation and environmentally-friendly vessels
in writing. - this report comes at a time when the common agricultural policy (cap) is being transformed and eu producers are facing ever stiffer competition from third countries. current economic circumstances being what they are, eu produce needs a higher profile in order to be more effective in confronting globalisation of trade. market quotas should be raised both within and outside the european union and critical situations reacted to.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report, which calls on informational provision and promotion measures for agricultural products. this is a very important tool for helping our farmers to promote both in the internal market and in third countries eu agricultural product of quality.
in writing. - the future role, design and functioning of private-private partnerships (ppp) and public-public partnerships (p2p) were the subject of intense discussion during the negotiation of the horizon 2020 package. in october, the european commission (ec) presented a ppp and p2p package proposal as an implementing tool of horizon 2020 in order to deliver on innovation and growth in europe.
in writing. - this report aims to enhance the quality of life of older people and strengthen the industrial base in europe ,through the use of information and communication technologies (ict). i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the report on the active and assisted living research and development programme, which is an essential package proposal as an implementing tool of horizon 2020, in order to deliver innovation and growth in europe
in writing. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of europe's economy and provide jobs for millions of workers. we must therefore help them in the best possible way and when we help them in the areas of research and innovation we are helping them a lot because research and innovation are the key to success in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i fully support the programme’s goal to promote research activities of research-performing smes, which are the engine of malta’s and europe’s economy.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report because support of medium-sized enterprises especially in research and development is essential.
in writing. - metrology, the science of measurement, is a crucial element of our high-tech world. the overarching objectives are to provide metrology solutions supporting innovation and industrial competitiveness and measurement technologies to tackle societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, including support to policy development and implementation. an important objective is the creation of a european metrology research system with critical mass and active engagement at regional, national, european and international level.
in writing. - i support this programme which enhances the collaboration and integration of national metrology research programmes in all technological and industrial spheres. this programme will now continue until 2020 with a budget of eur[nbsp ]300 million.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report since a european metrology programme is important for industrial progress.
in writing. - there is a need to work in partnership with developing countries, such as in sub-saharan africa, to tackle the negative impacts of poverty-related diseases, which affect 1 billion people and tragically cause such huge loss of life. the spread of poverty-related diseases has a wider impact on the world and europe in particular, where many of these illnesses have been eradicated.
in writing. - the edctp2 programme helps to reduce the social and economic burden of poverty-related diseases in developing countries, in particular in sub-saharan africa, by accelerating the clinical development of effective, safe and affordable medical interventions for poverty-related diseases. i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. - this report which emerges from the committee on industry, research and energy is a positive step forward for partnerships programmes between europe and developing countries. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. - at present, a creditor seeking to recover his debt in another member state faces significant difficulties and debtors can easily escape enforcement measures by swiftly moving their monies from a bank account in one member state to another. therefore this regulation seeks to facilitate the recovery of cross-border claims by establishing a new and self-standing european procedure for the preservation of bank accounts which will enable a creditor to prevent the transfer or withdrawal of his debtor’s assets in any bank account located in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it provides for the regulation of the freezing of accounts across borders on the basis of the same conditions, irrespective of the country where the competent court is located, and therefore reduces costs and delays for creditors seeking to obtain and enforce an account preservation order in cross-border situations.
in writing. - this report from the committee on legal affairs has all my endorsement.
in writing. - although the step we are taking is not a big one, it is an important one. it is an important step because we are calling for large companies to take on more responsibility, especially in vital areas such as social and environmental issues. moreover, investors and shareholders have a right to know what a company is doing and not simply to be given financial details.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it ensures a level playing field across the eu, with the report proposing a flexible approach to the disclosure of information.
in writing. - this report, which i have voted in favour of, adds to transparency issues.
in writing. - after more than three years of negotiations, the compromise that has been reached on this proposal will contribute to competitiveness and economic growth by helping to make the eu more attractive for intra-corporate transferees. one of the outstanding issues of major concern in relation to national interest is the right to equal treatment; however, the compromise is an important step.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aims to increase flexibility amongst international companies and helps facilitate many multinationals wishing to transfer their personnel. it also tries to ensure clearer specific schemes, an increased understanding of requirements, combats delays in granting visas or work permits and aims to clarify the uncertainty about the rules and procedures.
in writing. - i voted positively since it is becoming more important to have structures to coordinate intra-corporate transfers when this includes entry and residence of third country nationals.
in writing. - clean sky 2 is the most ambitious aeronautical programme that europe has ever undertaken, with a wider view of aviation accommodating not just large aircraft, but also small aircraft. this needs to include a different regulatory approach to ‘small aviation’ where one size does not fit all.
in writing. - this will help bring significant step changes regarding the environmental impact of aviation. clean sky has been a successful programme and i therefore supported this report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour as i am very preoccupied with environment issues.
in writing. - bio-based industries ju is one of the proposals and is about a new joint technology initiative (jti) to support bio-based industries under the eu’s new research programme, horizon 2020. it will focus on three main streams of activities: feedstock, by fostering sustainable biomass supply with increased productivity and new supply chains; bio-refineries, by optimising efficient processing through r&d and demonstrating their efficiency and economic viability at large-scale demonstration bio-refineries; and markets, products and policies, by developing markets for bio-based products and improving policy frameworks.
in writing. - this report aims to contribute to a more resource efficient and sustainable low-carbon economy and to increasing economic growth and employment, in particular in rural areas, by developing sustainable and competitive bio-based industries in europe. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - an important report, which i voted in favour of, in view of this sectorial industry.
in writing. - this report is about the proposal on the extension of the sesar joint undertaking until 2024 as an important part of the innovation investment package under horizon 2020. this joint undertaking will continue the coordinated approach in air traffic management (atm) research and innovation in the context of the single european sky (ses).
in writing. - the modernisation of the european air traffic management system in the european union is crucial and i have therefore supported the extension of the joint undertaking.
in writing. - an important report which merits approval. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the innovative medicines initiative 2 (imi2) will be the successor of imi1, a joint technology initiative set up under the 7th framework programme but with a different scope: from pre-competitive biomedical research the focus will shift to public health. by doing so, imi2 will widen its agenda to encompass the whole cycle of innovation, bringing on board other life science industries, and covering not only research, but also the commercialisation of innovative medicines.
in writing. - we need to be able to continue to deliver better and safer medicines for patients. i voted in favour of this report as it improves the drug development process by supporting more efficient research and development cooperation among academia, small and medium enterprises and the biopharmaceutical industry.
in writing. - it is a positive sign that we are producing innovative medicines to address health issues. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - since ict is a key enabling technology that facilitates innovation in other industrial sectors, the ecsel joint undertaking will have a crucial role to play in achieving the targets identified in the leadership in enabling and industrial technologies pillar of horizon 2020. its aims will be to strengthen industrial competitiveness in key technologies such as micro- and nanoelectronics, and smart embedded components and systems, all of which are priority fields identified within the ict theme in horizon 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it aims to provide access for all stakeholders to a world-class infrastructure for the design and manufacture of electronic components and embedded and smart systems and to foster the development of ecosystems involving innovative smes, the strengthening of existing clusters and the nurturing of the creation of new clusters in promising new areas.
in writing. - a specialised issue which deserves support. i voted in favour.
in writing. - hydrogen is an energy carrier, which can be used as a clean fuel, and it is virtually limitless. hydrogen and its various applications have the potential to bring core solutions to major societal challenges for the eu, from energy security and climate change to industrial competiveness, innovation and smart growth. fuel cells can serve as an efficient conversion technology with many benefits for both the transport and energy sector. the successful development and deployment of fuel cells and hydrogen (fch) technologies can further provide alternatives to fossil fuels and enhance eu energy security by reducing dependence on imports of energy in the long run. hydrogen produced from renewable energy sources, and water electrolysis coupled with fuel cell systems can play an important part in europeʼs future energy mix and can offer competitive solutions, both local and regional, for achieving smart and inclusive growth.
in writing. - this report aims to strengthen european industry through actions supporting research and innovation across a range of sectors. in particular, it provides for the creation of public-private partnerships that will contribute to tackling some of the key challenges europe faces. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. - coming from the committee on industry, research and energy this report deserves every endorsement. i voted in favour.
in writing. - parliament has taken an important step forward on the transparency of the eu institutions, in the interests of eu citizens. a stronger and more binding register is a fundamental tool to provide citizens with all relevant information on decision-makers taking part in the eu legislative process. the incentives will include improved access to parliament’s premises, help in contacting meps, easier authorisation for organising or co-hosting events on its premises, facilitated transmission of information, and participation as speakers in committee hearings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report due to the important incentives it creates in increasing acceptance of the transparency register and to further motivate a large number of organisations to register.
in writing. - this report which deals with transparency is needed today more than ever. i voted in favour.
in writing. - it is a pleasure for me to close this legislature with an important report such as the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs. i am pleased that as a speaker on behalf of the s&d group i have put forward amendments which give greater importance to the role of this parliament. it gives me even more satisfaction to say that, in the face of the disillusionment of many european citizens caused by the austerity measures that have failed to satisfy them, the way forward can inspire confidence. i take this opportunity to thank the people of malta and gozo for the trust they have placed in me to represent them in this parliament. i believed and still believe that the european peoples deserve a better europe than we have today. a europe of opportunities and not one of despair. a social europe where there is truly no one to throw away. this report inspires confidence. i assure you that in the next legislature this parliament will be instrumental in achieving a fairer society.
in writing. - it is important that the tasks of the social summit are extended to now include coordinating the parties’ strategies for growth, a high level of employment, social integration, education, training and protection of health. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - growth and employment have become key issues and the tripartite approach is definitely a positive effort to address this difficult issue. i voted in favour.
in writing. - a large number of citizens have a wrong idea of the european union. citizens in large and strong countries look to the european union as a union that is pouring itself into helping other countries. on the other hand, citizens in other countries are more interested in what they will get from the european union. this idea can only be defeated by serious discussions on the function and budget of the european union, discussions that must take place not only in strasbourg and brussels, but in the member countries. we should encourage the respective governments to hold debates on the eu budget in their own parliaments so that citizens are better informed about how the eu spends their tax money.
in writing. - a very important report from the committee of budgets which deserves ep support. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. other we are recalling the dramatic events connected with the outbreak of the first world war, but we are under the impression that we have not yet learned the lesson of history. the first world war brought great suffering, introduced chemical weapons and unprecedented weapons of mass destruction, and was followed just 20 years later by a larger and more terrifying war. as a result, millions of people lost their lives unjustly. millions more have experienced unprecedented persecution and suffering. we would be deluding ourselves if we thought that the causes of these wars were a thing of the past. what we see happening not only around us and within our own societies has reason to concern us. the fragility in our economy, the lack of opportunity for solid and rewarding jobs, the exploitation of the minority in society, poverty, the growing popularity of extreme political forces: all factors which would be an error to ignore. the situation of geopolitical instability is worrying. from ukraine to syria; from palestine to egypt; from libya to sub-saharan african countries. the situation is a worrying one that requires a more firm and direct eu response. if we as europeans are to have a better future built on stability and peace, we need to work towards finding solutions to the big problems that are arising. we need to give our people hope again because without this hope for a better future, we risk being condemned.
in writing. - there is concern in relation to the definition of ‘outgoing worker’, namely owing to the legal uncertainty that it has introduced and which may lead to practical difficulties in implementing the restricted scope of the directive without having to extend the same rules applicable pursuant to the directive to scheme members who change employment within a single member state. were this to happen, this could be considered to be tantamount to the directive having indirectly harmonising effects which go beyond the intentions of the legislator and the legal remit of the agreed legal base. to this extent i abstained on this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it clarifies the rules relating to supplementary pension rights brought about by cross-border labour mobility.
in writing. - i abstained as i have not made a meaningful decision on the subject.
in writing. - it is true that a robust system of official controls that are carried out by independent and competent staff is needed to guarantee the right of consumers to safe and wholesome food and to prevent food fraud. however, i voted against a number of elements and against the report because it provides for mandatory cost recovery in particular because there are prescriptive requirements that will increase the burden on those subject to the charge and those tasked with collecting it without improving consumer safety. it should be for member states to determine where, when and how to introduce charging, including how to minimise the burden on smaller businesses.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the proposals are not sufficient to regulate the various issues in a meaningful way.
in writing. - in order to ensure that animals’ health is safeguarded and they are protected from disease, a thorough set of rules is required. this report seeks to establish these rules and is robust in laying out the measures to be taken in order to safeguard an animal’s health. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i am in agreement with this report as i am totally in favour of any regulations relating to animal health.
in writing. - we are becoming increasingly aware of the need to protect the environment and so more and more citizens are expecting us to do more than just talk. the same can be said for the production of vegetables that do not harm the citizen. it is therefore wise not only to do everything possible to encourage farming, but also to ensure that the product is as genuine as possible.
in writing. - the protection of the health of the european union’s plants is a key tool in ensuring the future prosperity of europe’s agricultural and forestry sectors. this report aims to take all the preventive measures necessary in protecting plant health. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i am in agreement with this report as i am totally in favour of any measures to protect against pets of plants
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as part of the consumer product safety package, as it further clarifies rules on product safety and promotes the enhanced use of european standards. it is a positive development both for businesses and consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour since consumer product safety is an essential element of the wider discussion on health and safety.
in writing. - market surveillance as established in this regulation should safeguard health and safety but also, more generally, enforcement of union legislation which seeks to uphold other public interests, such as the environment or energy efficiency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as part of the consumer product safety package, as it clarifies the measures to be taken in order to guarantee that the products circulating around europe’s markets are safe, whilst simultaneously defining those products that are harmful and precarious for european consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as market surveillance of products is a mandatory aspect in order to have criteria in favour of consumer information.
in writing. - in recent years more investors have become active in the financial markets and are offered an even more complex, wide-ranging set of services and instruments. in view of these developments, the legal framework of the european union should encompass the full range of investor-oriented activities. mifid ii introduces a market structure framework which closes loopholes (notably the broker dealer crossing networks used by investment banks to trade equities outside the regulated space) and ensures that trading, where appropriate, takes place on regulated platforms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it aims to ensure that trading within the financial markets is secure and procedures are clear and robust, whilst simultaneously creating an environment that strengthens the protection of investors.
in writing. - i voted in favour as this is an essential step on this important subject.
in writing. - mifid ii provides for a harmonised position-limits regime for commodity derivatives to improve transparency, prevent market abuse, support orderly pricing and prevent market distortions. this requirement did not exist in mifid i and it is a new, important, tool to tackling ‘gambling’ on food prices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it aims to ensure that trading within the financial markets is secure and procedures are clear and robust, whilst simultaneously creating an environment that strengthens the protection of investors.
in writing. - an important step on this technical issue. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report is about the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 638/2004 on community statistics relating to trading of goods between member states as regards conferring of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures, the communication of information by the customs administration, the exchange of confidential data between member states and the definition of statistical value. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it defines how the eu’s statistics are calculated, permitting the effective communication of data between institutions. moreover, it also explicitly states the rules to be followed when exchanging confidential data.
in writing. - my vote in favour reflects my opinion on statistics in trade.
in writing. - central securities depositories (csds) are private financial institutions instrumental in contributing to maintaining the efficiency of the post-trade infrastructure. their efficiency gives market participants the certainty that securities transactions are executed properly and in a timely manner.
in writing. - in order for central securities depositaries (csds) – a vital part of the eu’s financial markets – to be traded effectively and transparently, the right monitoring and supervisory tools are needed. the aim of the report is to provide these tools, and this is the reason why i voted in favour.
in writing. - an important measure. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the report highlights the need to ensure the safety of ships and their crew and also prevent maritime accidents and pollution to the marine environment through harmonising the way member states apply design, construction and performance standards of marine equipment. the importance of reducing administrative burdens was underlined and the need for notified bodies to request certified copies of patents or licenses of marine equipment was removed. the option of electronic tagging to supplement or replace the wheel mark was adopted, which should make it more difficult to forge the relevant certificates in the future.
in writing. - in order for central securities depositaries (csds), a vital part of eu’s financial markets, to be traded effectively and transparently, the right monitoring and supervisory tools are needed. the aim of the report is to provide these tools and this is the reason why i voted in favour. (debate)
in writing. - an important report which i support completely.
in writing. - this report is about the proposal which is linked to the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf). the report includes the alignment of the existing directive on the standard set by the nlf, which strengthens and modernises the conditions for placing certain industrial products on the eu internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, as it endeavours to provide a harmonisation of the diverse rules of the eu’s member states in the trading of pressure equipment in the continent’s different markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour because of this important aspect on the subject.
in writing. - this report dealing with european patents follows the adaptation of the brussels[nbsp ]i regulation to the agreement concerning the unified patent court. it is important to clarify that the unified patent court and the benelux court of justice are to be treated in the same way as ‘courts of the member states’ for the application of the brussels[nbsp ]i regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it distinctly ensures that member states are treated on an egalitarian basis when judges are appointed and recruited.
in writing. - my vote in favour reflects my opinion on judgments in civil and commercial matters.
in writing. - compared with what was happening a few months ago, we are getting news that i believe should encourage us because it seems that we are overcoming the crises that have hit us in recent years. but we must be sure that the figures and statistics really reflect what is going on, otherwise we are laughing at ourselves and, worse, at those who are most affected. it is easy to boast of how many new jobs are being created. it is easy to see how the number of those who are gainfully employed is increasing. but such boasting means nothing to the young man seeking to enter the world of work. this boasting means nothing to the father who lost his job and has been looking for another for months. statistics are important if we know how to use them to see where we are going and then help us to have a better future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report due the vitality of the labour force survey in researching and providing data on jobs and europe’s labour market.
in writing. - this report from the committee on employment and social affairs addresses the important issue of sample survey. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - it would be a mistake not to learn from our own experiences or those of others, even if we were not directly affected. we would be foolish to forget what happened, for example, in the gulf of mexico a few months ago where we saw what we might call a complete environmental disaster. it is therefore important to take preventive measures in advance and not to expect to be struck by a disaster, then ask ourselves why we did not take certain steps.
in writing. - the european maritime safety agency is a crucial tool in combating marine pollution. this report explicitly lays out what actions are to be taken to enhance the agency’s resources and to ensure that it responds in an effective and timely manner. this is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - my favourable vote is indicative of my strong opinion of the european maritime safety agency and response to pollution.
unemployment is one of europe's greatest challenges. in july 2013, the unemployment rate in the european union was 11%, and for some of the member states it was above 20%. europe 2020 aims to achieve 75% of active employment and can only do so if it manages to create the right environment for job creation. we must remember in principle that it is businesses, small enterprises and innovators who create jobs and put into effect the plans and documents that the european union publishes on economic growth. businesses can create jobs if the market allows it and if there are enough skilled workers. there is also a need to link labour costs to production costs and to ensure that market rules are proportionate. i believe that we should always do our utmost to create the right environment that enables businesses and small enterprises to create jobs. we must work to emphasise a sense of enterprise in our young people. in particular, i welcome innovative initiatives to help young entrepreneurs such as the create programme; the commission will also be supporting the implementation of the erasmus+ programme for young entrepreneurs, as well as the 2020 strategy for entrepreneurship.
in writing. - we cannot afford to hold back from providing any help in the area of job creation. it is our duty to look and see where we can give this help when we know that the problem of unemployment is a problem that has been with us for a number of years now. nevertheless, it would be a grave mistake on our part to be satisfied simply because the number of people working is increasing. we must work to create quality jobs where workers have not only a decent income, but also decent conditions. it is important to distinguish between employment and exploitation of workers.
in writing. - creating innovative programmes and new initiatives, informing europe’s smes of ways to access eu support and fomenting entrepreneurial spirit are all key factors in combating the high levels of unemployment that plague many of the union’s member states. this is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - my vote in favour illustrates my deep belief in a positive environment for enterprises, businesses and the creation of start-ups which are so important in the creation of jobs
in writing. - many of the problems we face are the result of a lack of education. i believe that any investment in education is a long-term investment. it is therefore important to see, and i say make sure, that each member state of the european union gives top priority to the field of education by investing in everything that is needed today, not even in ict. there is also a need to encourage more girls to enter the world of ict. it is true that times are changing, but on the other hand it would be a big mistake to abandon the traditional ways of teaching altogether. and here i would like to make a reference to the printed book. for the book in our hands. the book that in my opinion, no matter how much progress is made, nothing can.
in writing. - educating europe’s youth is of fundamental importance for the future prosperity of the continent. in order to do this, a balanced approach between the introduction of new educational methods and the use of existing traditional modes of teaching is required. the report aims to provide such a balance, and this is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - this report from the culture and education committee is an important step forward in developing new technologies and educational resources and that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. - this report deals with the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), signed in 1973, aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. however there were elements in the report made by the ep that supersede with a presidency compromise text and other elements that would change from an implementing act to a delegated act. to this extent i voted against the report.
in writing. - there is a need to update the proposal under the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) to replace the old obsolete provisions with new ones (including the update of the legal basis). i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against, as this report has aspects which i disagree with.
in writing. - any agreement with third countries should be welcomed, but we must ensure that the countries with which an agreement is concluded strictly follow what has been agreed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the fisheries agreement with malta.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which helps promote viable and sustainable fishing practices in the waters of the seychelles and provides for a sound financial contribution.
in writing. - providing fishing opportunities for our fishermen is a positive move. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report deals with the proposal which seeks the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the comoros setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the two parties currently in force. the total financial envelope allocated to this protocol would be eur 2.132 million from 2014 to 2016, including administrative costs for the management of the protocol and human resources expenditure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which helps promote viable and sustainable fishing practices in the waters of the comoros and provides for a sound financial contribution.
in writing. - fishing should be given importance. i have voted in favour.
in writing. - this report is about the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of madagascar. the financial allocation for this fishing protocol shall be eur 3.152 million from 2013 to 2014 (operational costs), including payments of an administrative nature funded from allocations to certain specific programmes in the order of eur 102 000 over the two years. to this sum should be added administrative costs of the protocol's management and human resource costs in the region of eur 184 000 for the duration of the protocol.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which helps promote viable and sustainable fishing practices in the waters of the madagascar and provides for a sound financial contribution.
in writing. - i have voted in favour since this is important for both the eu and madagascar.
in writing. - the republic of korea is amongst the most important partners of the european union in asia. both partners, the european union and its member states, on the one part, and the republic of korea, on the other part, do have such close relations not only because of economic reasons, but also because of the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law they commonly share. the readmission clause, as stated in article 33 (2), is a central part of the new framework agreement. by agreeing to readmit their respective nationals who stay illegally in the territory of the other party and by agreeing to provide their nationals with appropriate identity documents in such cases, it will strengthen and intensify the mutual cooperation of both parties in order to prevent and control irregular migration.
in writing. - this new framework agreement addresses a wide range of international concerns, including non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, human rights, cooperation in the fight against terrorism, climate change, energy security and development assistance.
in writing. - this agreement between the eu and the republic of korea is an important one. that is why my vote is in favour.
in writing. - the new framework agreement is based on shared principles such as equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, as well as the respect for democracy, rule of law and human rights. the agreement is the over-arching agreement enhancing political, economic and sectoral cooperation in peace and security, conflict prevention, and crisis management, trade, environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration, counter-terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime. it will further enhance cooperation on responding to global challenges, where both korea and the eu are playing an increasingly important role, such as in the g20.
in writing. - this new framework agreement addresses a wide range of international concerns, including non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, human rights, cooperation in the fight against terrorism, climate change, energy security and development assistance. the ratification procedure in eu national parliaments was concluded in february 2014 and i now gave my consent to the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this agreement is important for reciprocal purposes.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the conclusion of a protocol to the eu-montenegro stabilisation and association agreement that takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement in order to make the necessary changes to the eu-montenegro stabilisation and association agreement brought about by the republic of croatia’s accession to the eu.
in writing. - this protocol to the ec-montenegro stabilisation and association agreement on account of croatiaʼs accession is important. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the eu-georgia framework agreement. the conclusion of the protocol will permit the gradual opening of or reinforced participation in certain union programmes for georgia, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, enhancing people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, in addition to the strengthening of the political and relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. - as the agreement further fosters the ties between the eu and georgia by enabling the country to take part in shared, common programmes, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - this framework agreement is important as it deals with general principles for georgia to participate in european union programmes. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the request of portugal to renew the authorisation to continue to apply a rate of excise duty lower than the full rate on alcohol laid down in article 3 of council directive 92/84/ec, and lower than the minimum rate of excise duty on alcohol set by this directive but not more than 75% lower than the standard national excise duty on alcohol. portugal has requested the renewal of this authorisation until 31 december 2020, and the commission has found the renewal to be justified in order to avoid endangering the development of those outermost regions, while not distorting competition in the internal market, considering the tax advantage to be limited to what is necessary to offset additional costs.
in writing. - the report aims to protect those regions within portugal that are at a disadvantage and, as it has no effect on the eu’s internal market, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour since i believe that it is important to help the outermost regions.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias (‘aiem’) to a number of products produced locally in the canary islands, in order to enhance competiveness and to compensate for the additional costs of production due to isolation, raw material and energy dependence, the obligation to build up stocks, the small size of the local market and the low level of export activity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report that aims to protect the special characteristics of the canary islands.
in writing. - this is important to aid outermost regions. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax for a number of products produced in the french outermost regions (excluding saint martin), in order to enhance competiveness and to compensate for the additional costs of production due to isolation, raw material and energy dependence, the obligation to build up stocks, the small size of the local market and the low level of export activity. france has requested that a system of differentiated taxation similar to the current system be maintained until 31 december 2020. however the commission asks for an extended additional period of six months in order to allow the commission to complete its analysis and present a balanced proposal taking account of the various interests at stake.
in writing. - as the report aims to protect those regions within french territory that face disadvantages and as it has no effect on the eu’s internal market, i voted in favour.
in writing. - this is an important report for french overseas departments. i voted in favour.
in writing. - any change in parliament's procedures must always have one objective. that members of parliament find it easy to do their job properly and also that the members themselves have the facility to inform their constituents of the work they are doing. parliamentary questions are certainly a key means by which members can put before this parliament and also before the commission what their constituents want.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to enhance the parliament’s procedural arrangements when asking parliamentary questions, making procedures more effective and operative.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this amendment has been required for some time.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the rules of procedure which currently do not allow other committees to give an opinion on resolutions relating to international agreements, important trade component makes it indispensable that the committee on international trade is allowed to contribute to shaping parliament's position.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it empowers the european parliament to intervene during procedures and provides it with the ability to state where it stands on certain issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this amendment from the committee on constitutional affairs relates to parliamentʼs rules of procedure on international agreements.
in writing. - parliament documents may be prepared, signed and distributed in electronic form. the bureau shall decide on the technical specifications and on the presentation of the electronic form.
in writing. - this report permits the use of electronic signatures, thus allowing parliament to be more efficient in its work. this is the reason why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - this report is important since electronic signatures are an aspect of progression. i have voted in favour.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the budget line of ‘science for and with society’. this budget line indicates commitments of some eur 53 million in 2014 while draft amending budget no[nbsp ]1/2014 does not suggest any allocations to this line. hence the commission is reminded of the commitment made during the budgetary trilogue of 2[nbsp ]april 2014 to immediately proceed to an internal transfer to line budget for ‘science for and with society’ in order to ensure the smooth start of this activity according to the work programme and as foreseen in the legal base.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it takes into account the changes to the budget brought about by the european investment fund, horizon 2020 and the shift2rail joint undertaking proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this draft, amending part of the budget, concerns the european investment fund.
in writing. - this regulation deals with noise related measures at airports, and in particular aviation noise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation as it ensures that measures on the right of review, health considerations, noise performance information, information to citizens, the phasing-out of noisier aircraft and the setting of specific noise thresholds are adopted for the benefit of eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. noise restrictions at european union airports is essential for a good quality of life.
in writing. - it is a great satisfaction for us maltese that our capital city - valletta - will be the capital of culture in the twenty-eighth year. a great deal of work has been done to make the history of our capital city known through this activity. valletta is endowed with great historical riches. i take this opportunity to invite you once again, as i have already done, not to miss the opportunity to visit malta in the year 2000.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation as it ensures the streamlining of the selection procedure, the sustainability of investments in infrastructure and access to additional sources of union funding while also allowing for the possibility for a particular city to lead a regional bid. it is also important that the role of the member state hosting the european capital of culture is duly recognised while still safeguarding the european nature and character of this pan-european initiative.
in writing. - i voted against as i do not agree with this report on eu action for the european capitals of culture for the years 2020 to 2033.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the effective protection for cetaceans in fisheries, including through regionalisation.
in writing. - this recommendation ensures that the appropriateness and effectiveness of the various provisions of the legislation for protecting cetaceans are to be reviewed by the end of 2015. this will eventually offer the possibility for an overarching legislative proposal to further guarantee effective protection for cetaceans, including through regionalisation. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i believe that the incidental catching of cetaceans has to be given importance.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. notwithstanding distinct concerns with different articles of the directive, the compromise reached between the council and the european parliament can be considered to be balanced and a good outcome. this meant that there were elements which i agreed upon especially where it is not recommended a reopening of the delicate balance of the agreement and other elements that are considered of concern to which i either abstained or voted against.
in writing. - in the light of the economic crisis and the high level of unemployment in europe, one of the biggest challenges for member states is to provide access to high-quality education for young people. for this reason i welcome today's vote by the european parliament on the creation of a european framework for the development of open educational resources. cooperation between member states will help to enhance the quality of education and training on our continent and also help to make europe an attractive destination for students from all over the world. to achieve these goals it is also necessary to support digital education. today, member states are calling for it to be applied at primary and secondary levels and to be available to disadvantaged groups, the unemployed as well as older generations. this is all the more necessary when we realise that by the year 2020, 90% of jobs will require digital skills. the nature of education and training is changing rapidly in europe. most training today is delivered through online courses and much of this training is provided free of charge. in order to modernise the education system, europe needs to invest in education facilities equipped with information technology. it is essential to invest in this direction and to continuously improve the methods we have in place in order to achieve the targets of the european strategy for 2020 and make lifelong learning a reality for everyone. (final vote)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it further clarifies the applicable and mandatory rules required when workers are posted abroad to a different member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. i am in favour/against the various amendments as i voted.
in writing. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - today everyone recognises that cultural objects should be the property of the country of origin because these same objects often have links with the history of the country and are therefore considered national treasures. nevertheless, a number of cultural goods are changing hands through illicit trade. it is therefore essential that every effort be made to restore what is ultimately theirs.
in writing. - this report seeks to ensure the effective monitoring of cultural objectives transported to different member states whilst establishing rules to safeguard personal data. this is the reason why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i believe in the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state.
in writing. - many of the proposed amendments are considered to be too prescriptive and do not afford member states the flexibility needed to adopt those measures that may be deemed appropriate according to their social and economic circumstances and their inherent specificities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which will see a decrease in the harmful consequences of the over-use of plastic carrier bags, to the benefit of the environment and the health of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted against as i am not in favour of the way this report has been proposed.
in writing. - for a few months now we have been describing the mediterranean as a graveyard because of the great disasters that have occurred there and which have left hundreds of victims, including children drowned. fortunately, in recent months we have not had similar tragedies. i say fortunately because this in no way means that the problem of illegal immigrants is being overcome. just a few days ago, hundreds, if not thousands, of illegal immigrants arrived in italy. any step taken to save the lives of immigrants must have the support of everyone, but it must also have the necessary support of those countries for which the problem of illegal immigration has become a major one.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this report is essential in regard to surveillance of external sea borders.
in writing. - the eu is (or will be) negotiating investment protection agreements with third countries, including with canada, the us, japan, india and china. essentially, this dossier is a big battle between member states and the commission over competence in terms of investment policy, whereby several member states, and in particular germany, finland and the netherlands would like to keep as much power as possible in the hands of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it provides a well-balanced approach between the european commission and the member state with regards to the financial responsibilities arising from an investor-state dispute.
in writing. - i voted in favour as this report relates to an obscure procedure which required clarification.
in writing. - this report aims at modernising both the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations. however, i do not agree with the removal of the ‘lesser duty ruleʼ and i believe that the current ‘ex-officioʼ powers of the commission are sufficient.
in writing. - i have voted against as the report does not deal methodically with the issue.
in writing. - the new regulation provides a european legal status for european political parties and foundations. this strengthens transparency procedures for funding, and respect for the values on which the eu is founded must be observed in both their programmes and activities. an independent authority will check the rules are complied with.
in writing. - while more work still needs to be carried out, i voted in favour of this report as it is a stepping stone in the right direction for the future regulation of the statute of europe’s political parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i agree with this report on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations.
in writing. - this dossier concerns technical adjustments to the financial regulation no[nbsp ]966/2012 to reflect the new rules governing the financing of european political parties and referring to such issues as, for instance, greater transparency in the management of funds for political parties or avoidance of conflicts of interest (rotation system of external auditors).
in writing. - while more work still needs to be carried out, i voted in favour of this report as it is a stepping stone in the right direction for future regulation of the statute of europe’s political parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this is a good report on the financing of european political parties.
in writing. - amongst other matters, this dossier was about technical adjustments to the financial regulation no[nbsp ]966/2012 to take into account the outcome of negotiations on issues such as: the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020, the connecting europe facility regulation no[nbsp ]1316/2013, and the common provisions regulation no[nbsp ]1303/2013 covering european structural and investment funds (in particular in relation to the setting-up of a performance reserve and the sme initiative).
in writing. - this report lays the foundations for a concrete set of financial rules for the general budget of the union, whilst permitting room for flexibility for funding for the emergency aid and performance reserve and for instruments designed to provide finance for smes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this report is required as it addresses financial rules applicable to the general budget of the european union.
in writing. - this report widens the scope of the commission document to include nitrogen oxides (nox) and also extends the scope of application to smaller ships (applying to ships over 400 gt rather than 5[nbsp ]000 gt). small emitters should be excluded, in particular since, as reported by the commission, such ships represent about 40[nbsp ]% of the fleet, but only 10[nbsp ]% of the total emissions. given malta’s extensive ship registry, this might have a negative impact on the shipping industry in malta. the proposed lean monitoring, reporting and verification approach based on existing documents and equipment on-board ships could not be used to measure emissions other than carbon dioxide (co2). furthermore, the measurement equipment required for emissions other than co2 cannot be considered as sufficiently reliable and commercially available for use at sea. therefore, at this stage, the proposed monitoring, reporting and verification system should be implemented for co2 emissions only. to this extent, i voted against.
in writing. - when discussing the european maritime safety agency consideration needs to be given to the difficulties of having one agency when europe has numerous seas: the mediterranean, the baltic sea, the black sea, the european north-east atlantic, the bay of biscay. pollution of the seas is a major concern, especially from tankers carrying fuel fossils or toxic materials. response to pollution has to be coordinated, preferably at a regional level, so that the response time is kept at a minimum. one central maritime safety agency can be redeployed from one area to another. to conclude, i do believe in having a central maritime agency for the major european seas with the ability to respond immediately to contain pollution.
in writing. - i voted against this report as the envisaged framework oversteps its application to various form of maritime transport. moreover, the proposed mechanisms to monitor carbon dioxide are inadequate and insufficient.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the issue of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport as the issue needs further study from a general view.
in writing. - it is important to have new rules to manage the so-called ‘invasive alien speciesʼ and it is even more important to have rules to stop others being introduced into europe. this is because one of the worst threats to europeʼs biodiversity and ecosystem is plant and animal species coming from other countries and continents. the importance of these rules is manifested in the fact that some of these species can also prove a threat to human health as they cause health problems such as asthma or allergies and are potential carriers of various diseases.
in writing. - invasive alien species (ias) are species that are transmitted through human interaction and easily spread, causing severe ecological, economic and social consequences. the report is designed to create measures to sufficiently prevent and monitor the movement of invasive alien species across the european continent. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour. it is important to address invasive alien species.
in writing. - this dossier aims to ensure the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol in the european union after 2012, enable the effective operation of the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union, its member states and iceland, and ensure its alignment with the operation of the eu ets and the effort sharing decision.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to finalise and implement the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol found in the un framework convention on climate change. this ensures transparency on the part of the parties involved and compliance with the parties’ commitments.
in writing. - i voted in favour. it is important for the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change.
in writing. - this report does not respect national legislation on vat. this should be dealt with on the national level.
in writing. - i voted against as this report does not take into consideration the whole issue.
in writing. - i voted against the report on discharge for the european parliament, because it did not focus enough on parliament's financial proceedings.
in writing. - this report covers the 2012 discharge, with respect to the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012. the report is balanced in its criticism and lessons for future work. i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against this report as i do not agree with the way certain issues have been dealt with.
in writing. - if implemented, this report will give the ep substantial new powers in dealing with possible contraventions of or maladministration in the implementation of union law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good step towards establishing the required provisions needed for the european parliament to exercise its right of inquiry, as laid out in article 226 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i have voted in favour as i believe in parliamentʼs right of inquiry.
in writing. - the report aims to focus attention towards greater eu integration through the link between the european parliament and national parliaments. it highlights the channels for cooperation, the relations developed at committee level and the role developed by the interparliamentary conference for the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy and the interparliamentary conference on economic governance. it takes into account the early warning mechanism and the reasoned opinions delivered by national parliaments as an opportunity for ensuring effective cooperation and achieving the objectives set for legislative acts. the report considers cosac could serve as a forum for discussion of the general state of the integration process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it seeks to further improve the relationship between the european parliament and the national parliaments and highlights the importance of national parliaments in countering the narrative of a democratic deficit existing in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i believe in this report relating to relations between the european parliament and the national parliaments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation so as to ensure an updated implementation of the own resources system that is more transparent and democratically accountable.
in writing. - i supported this report as i am in favour of implementing measures for the system of own resources.
in writing. - the report deals with the high expectations that the parliament places on the high level group on own resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is crucial in ensuring that the eu overcomes the deficiencies of the current own resources system. moreover, it will also pave the way for a reform that aims to ensure simplicity, equity, transparency and democratic accountability for the upcoming multi-annual financial framework (mff).
in writing. - i voted in favour as i agree with a system of own resources.
in writing. - the report deals with the methods and procedures for making available the traditional and gni-based own resources and the measures to meet cash requirements which are part of the package on the reform of the own resources system presented by the commission in 2011.
in writing. - i supported this report, which confirms that the legislation ensures that cash requirements are met under the new structure of own resources and that the legislative proposal has been codified in a straightforward manner which does not change any elements in its substance.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i agree that traditional, vat- and gni-based own resources and measures should meet cash requirements.
in writing. - this report places high expectations on the work of the high-level group on own resources, which it believes offers a unique opportunity to overcome the current blockage of the reform of the system of own resources; welcomes the first meeting of the high-level group on 3 april 2014; expects that, despite the considerable and regrettable delay in organising this inaugural meeting, the high-level group will still comply with the objectives and the calendar set out in the joint declaration establishing the high-level group on own resources.
in writing. - this report calls for the reform of the own resources system of the eu in order to ensure that the system is simple, transparent, fair, visible and understandable to eu citizens. this would reinforce eu citizens’ link to the eu while also reducing the burden on the national treasuries of the member states. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i believe in implementing measures for a system of own resources.
in writing. - it is important to give a tangible structure to the network of representatives of the national public employment services so as to be able to compare the effectiveness of labour market measures that are crucial for each and every eu member state. this will provide a channel to compare the advantages and weaknesses of the variety of measures that are identified and integrated by the eu member states into their strategies. by means of this report, the involvement of social partners and national labour services is being ensured while at the same time taking into account the organisation of competences in the different member states. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am in agreement.
in writing. - in maltese we say that the facts speak for themselves. not words, but facts. because words can say many things that really mean nothing or little. a typical example is what happened and is still happening in parts of europe that were struck by earthquakes years ago. unfortunately, despite the many complaints we heard, those affected are still suffering the consequences - not the consequences of the trauma they have suffered, because these consequences are not forgotten - but material consequences, including the lack of decent housing, the lack of decent schools, the lack of decent roads. it is important that people affected by natural disasters receive the support they need, effectively and immediately.
in writing. - we need to ensure that the european union solidarity fund offers a simplified way to make the payment of much-needed aid faster. the plan ensures clarity on who and what will be considered eligible expenditure especially with regard to regional disasters. finally, even though the principles of the fund have remained unchanged, the current reform encourages eu member states to include disaster prevention and the development of risk management in their agendas. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i agree with the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. - in the framework of the ‘new investment plan for europe’ the december 2013 european council called on the commission and the eib (european investment bank) to enhance the capacities of the eif (european investment fund) – particularly in support of smes – by increasing its capital by may 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as the current reform aims at increasing support for actions which complement the member states’ actions in favour of small and medium enterprises. the latter are the engine of malta’s and the european economy, which need to be safeguarded and constantly incentivised in different ways.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i am in agreement with the report.
in writing. - it is good to take steps to ensure that a medicine is safe on the market. but this is not enough. we need to look at how to ensure that everyone has access to the medicine they need. with the number of people living in poverty or at risk of poverty increasing, i am afraid that the number of people who need a medicine and are denied it because they do not have the means to obtain it is also increasing. i believe that everyone agrees that every individual should have access to the care they need, but there is a sea of fighting between words and deeds. let us continue to strive for a more social europe that takes care of the most precious thing that every individual has - health.
in writing. - a funding mechanism was urgently needed due to the implementation of the new eu pharmacovigilance regulation and directive agreed in 2012. moreover, the report removes unnecessary penalisations such as those affecting generics companies. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european medicines agency report as i am in agreement.
in writing. - as europeans who believe in true democracy, we were at the forefront of giving our support to those who started the battle for democracy in arab countries during the arab spring. we know that the progress made in the first years after the dictators were eliminated was not what perhaps most of us expected. citizens of these countries may also be disappointed because the progress they expected is not being felt or is being felt very little. it is therefore important to help these countries develop. but we must be sure that the aid granted is meeting the purposes for which it is granted.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i agree with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing macro-financial assistance to the republic of tunisia.
in writing. - tunisia saw the spark that led to the arab spring. it is crucial for the eu to support such countries. i voted in favour of this report which raises the macro-financial assistance given to tunisia, following confirmation of effective democratic mechanisms and specific structural reform measures in the state.
in writing. - this dossier aims to modify the provisions on fishing seasons in regulation (ec) no 302/2009 in order to ensure effective conservation of bluefin tuna stocks.
in writing. - this report ensures that member states will be able to define their fishing capacity and inspection plans, ensuring better legal certainty on the matter. it also ensures sustainable recovery for bluefin tuna through the adoption of the iccat recommendations. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour as the recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean is essential
in writing. - this dossier aims to harmonise minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in respect of counterfeiting of the euro and other currencies.
in writing. - the protection of our common currency, the euro, and other currencies against counterfeiting is crucial for long-term growth in the eu and the eurozone. this report removed the minimum criminal sanction of six months’ imprisonment for offences relating to the production and distribution of counterfeit money. moreover, it also provides that investigative tools applicable to cases relating to organised crime can also be used in cases dealing with counterfeiting. these measures, amongst others, will help towards reaching this overarching goal of combating currency counterfeiting. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i believe in the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting by criminal law-
in writing. - the report proposes that honey with pollen from gmo plants should indicate that it contains ‘ingredients’ from gmos. with the proposed parliament amendments, the 0.9% threshold with regard to the labelling of the content of gm material would apply to all foodstuffs except honey, given that the highest level of pollen in honey would be 0.05%; so effectively with regard to labelling requirements, there would be one threshold for honey and another for all other foodstuffs. this disparity cannot be accepted and to this extent i voted against.
in writing. - i have voted against as this report relating to honey is not comprehensive.
in writing. - the economic contribution of the fisheries sector, in a number of countries, may not be as significant. but it is still an important area in several respects. first and foremost, it remains important because we know the need for fish in our diet. it is therefore important to help fishermen in their work and also to have a better future. it is worth noting that the children of fishermen are likely to seek employment elsewhere when they see the hardships their parents have to endure. we must therefore do our utmost to make jobs in this field more attractive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it proposes a number of positive amendments to the original commission proposal. a case in point is the increased investments in ports in order to take into account the strategic role of ports in ensuring the competitiveness and sustainability both of fishing activities and of coastal areas. moreover, it is extremely positive that it is up to the individual member states to define the terms of ‘small-scale’ and ‘coastal fisheries’, as characteristics vary according to the sea basins concerned.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the european maritime and fisheries fund.
in writing. - this dossier deals with the european police college (cepol) which provides law enforcement training and brings together national police officers from around europe to encourage cross-border law enforcement cooperation in the union.
in writing. - the eu’s internal security needs are constantly evolving. this is resulting in an increase in the demands on police forces and law enforcement officers. the right skills are essential in order to be able to meet future challenges while also safeguarding the security of europe’s citizens. it is imperative to enhance the european police college’s role to ensure the college is fully independent, efficient and properly staffed. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the report on european police college.
in writing. - this dossier is about the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it further fosters the relationship and ties between the eu member states and the republic of albania, brought about through croatia’s accession to the eu.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report as i am in agreement with the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement relating to the accession of croatia.
in writing. - the european asylum support office (easo) has a crucial role to play in the euʼs asylum policy and we must continue to work to strengthen its aims and help the agency achieve its objectives. article[nbsp ]49 of the easo regulation specifies that arrangements shall be made, specifying in particular the nature, extent and manner in which norway and other associated states are to participate in the support officeʼs work. the participation of these associate countries in the support officeʼs work will add an important dimension to easoʼs role and as the rapporteur on this agreement, i am very proud to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the arrangement with the kingdom of norway on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office as i am in agreement.
in writing. - the european asylum support office (easo) has a crucial role to play in the euʼs asylum policy and we must continue to work to strengthen its aims and help the agency achieve its objectives. article[nbsp ]49 of the easo regulation specifies that arrangements shall be made, specifying in particular the nature, extent and manner in which liechtenstein, and other associated states are to participate in the support officeʼs work. the participation of these associate countries in the support officeʼs work will add an important dimension to easoʼs role and as the rapporteur on this agreement, i am very proud to vote in favour.
in writing. - i support this report on the arrangement with the principality of liechtenstein on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. that is why i voted in favour,
in writing. - this dossier puts forward the importance of long-term finance as a crucial enabling tool for putting the european economy on a path of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide finance to various infrastructure projects or unlisted companies of lasting duration that issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer.
in writing. - this report clearly lays out the effective rules for the creation of a fund for european investors and establishes a distinct framework for the standards and structures of the funds. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. - this directive will seek to improve management of the european maritime area to ensure sustainable development of the maritime economy and ecosystems in the eu. more than 200 million eu citizens live in coastal regions and 88 million are working there, generating more than 40[nbsp ]% of the euʼs gdp. in all, 5.4 million of them are employed in marine and maritime sectors whose gross value added amounts to almost eur[nbsp ]500 billion. today 90[nbsp ]% of the euʼs foreign trade is carried by sea. this indicates the importance of the marine and coastal areas and of the maritime economy for the eu. however, there will be a further increase in human and economic activities within these regions and sectors in the future. the euʼs maritime economy is crucial to achieving the europe 2020 goals and has huge potential to ensure europeʼs competitiveness in a globalised world. the eu should play a leading role in strengthening marine and maritime research and innovation and fostering growth of the maritime sectors.
in writing. - this report further strengthens europe’s successful integrated coastal management by both providing member states with the ability to choose what actions needs to be taken to complete their own individual challenges whilst simultaneously aiming to create a universal approach. therefore i supported the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to improve management of the european maritime area to ensure sustainable development of the maritime economy and ecosystems in the eu.
in writing. - this dossier puts into the picture the 2015 budget. the budget should be set on a realistic basis and should be in line with the principles of budgetary discipline and sound financial management; it is noted that 2015 will be a full year for the new parliament in office. also the union budget should reflect the current economic situation experienced by citizens across the union, as the well as the fiscal constraints faced by many member states, some of whom are engaged in serious efforts to bring their budgets onto a more sustainable long-term footing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it defines parliamentʼs revenue and expenditure for the financial year of 2015, whilst taking into account the financial constraints of many of the economies of europe’s member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour as i am in agreement with this report.
in writing. - it is high time to support victims of misbehaviour by businesses and ensure a level playing field in all member states to obtain compensation for the harm caused by them. it will also prevent businesses from profiting from regulatory arbitrage, i.e. to choose countries where it is more difficult to be attacked by victims.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to enhance the framework regulating the union’s rules on competition and to further enhance enforcement measures. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i have in favour of this report as it is important to support victims of misbehaviour by businesses and ensure a level playing field in all member states in order to obtain compensation for the harm caused by them.
in writing. - strong action against illegal shipments is a win-win solution, not only for the environment and public health but also for industry and the economy. the waste shipment regulation (ec) no 1031/2006 (wsr) lays down rules for shipments of waste both within the eu and between the eu and third countries. in particular, exports of hazardous waste to countries outside the oecd and exports of waste for disposal outside the eu/efta are prohibited. however, illegal waste shipments have remained a serious problem.
in writing. - we need to work to provide europe’s citizens with effectual protection against the shipment of illegal waste. this report endeavours to do just that and to further safeguard europe’s environment and our health. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i support this report on shipments of waste as it gives a solution not only for the environment and public health but also for industry and the economy in the eu.
in writing. - this is a very important dossier. the rising number of new psychoactive substances available in the euʼs internal market, their growing diversity, both in type and risk level, the speed with which they emerge and the growing number of individuals who consume them, challenge the capacity of public authorities to provide effective responses to protect public health and safety without hampering legitimate trade. new psychoactive substances can pose health, social and safety risks when consumed by humans. consumption of new psychoactive substances appears to be increasing in europe and use is predominant among young people. according to the 2011 eurobarometer ‘youth attitudes on drugsʼ, 5[nbsp ]% of young people in the eu have used such substances at least once in their life, with a peak of 16[nbsp ]% in ireland, and close to 10[nbsp ]% in poland, latvia and the united kingdom. the consumption of new psychoactive substances can cause harm to the health and safety of individuals and can pose risks and burdens for society as it may lead to violent behaviour and crime. if we truly believe in a social europe where everybody matters we need to stress even more the social aspect of society through the ‘respect yourselfʼ notion.
in writing. - the presence of new psychoactive substances in the eu requires a robust policy framework to deal with the various complexities it raises. it is vital that europe establish a unified position on what needs to be done to combat their use. it is for this reason therefore that i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which proposes establishing a robust form of information exchange between the member states, the european monitoring centre on drugs and drug addiction, europol and the commission.
in writing. - member states have their own policies on tackling illicit drugs on their national market. however, when psychoactive substances are being distributed from one member state to another, efficient cooperation between member states is indispensable, especially in an era when commerce and communication are no longer limited by physical and geographical boundaries. the directive laying down minimum provisions on the constituent elements of criminal acts and penalties in the field of illicit drug trafficking does not apply to the user of the psychoactive substances, although certain member states might envisage criminalisation of possession for personal use at national level.
in writing. - the fight against trafficking of illicit drugs requires thorough policy initiatives. europe must act on the fight against illegal drugs and the organised crime that it supports. therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on criminal acts and penalties in the field of illicit drug trafficking as i agree with its importance.
in writing. - this dossier brings forward important elements. it reaffirms amongst other issues shared values, common goals and responsibilities for the promotion of global peace, stability, parliamentary democracy, sustainable development and a strong multilateral system; to continue working together towards the strengthening and reform of the united nations, including the security council; to recognise that the increasingly multipolar world is characterised by the growing political significance of a multitude of regional and national players, including the eu and japan, and to demand enhanced cooperation and coordination in the international arena.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to further encourage and advance the important role the of the strategic partnership agreement between the eu and japan. moreover, the report emphasises the fundamental importance of promoting the values of human rights and democracy. this is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is an important agreement for relations between the eu and japan.
in writing. - this dossier amongst other elements reiterates its conviction that when defending its own interests in the world the european union must always base its policies on the promotion of the fundamental values on which it is founded (democracy, the rule of law and human rights, social justice and the fight against poverty) and on respect for other countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights the union’s need for a consistent eu policy on human rights that embraces religious freedom and cultural diversity. furthermore, the report emphasis the fundamental values of human rights and democracy in the euʼs dealings with third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as i am in agreement.
in writing. - certament li huwa pass kbir `il quddiem il-fatt li llum se ssir laqgha li fiha se jiehdu sehem l-ukraina, ir-russja, l-unjoni ewropea u l-istati unit bit-tama li tinstab soluzzjoni ghall-problema, jew ahjar nghid problemi, li zviluppaw f`dawn l-ahhar gimghat fl-ukraina. it-tensjoni fir-regjun qieghda tikber, izda dan m`ghandux iwassal ghal decizjonijiet mghaggla. ghandu jsir kull sforz biex is-soluzzjonijiet jinstabu permezz tad-djalogu, imma huwa importanti li l-ewwel u qabel kollox jitharsu l-interessi tac-cittadini, ikunu min ikunu.
in writing. - i supported this resolution which explicitly underlines the importance of the eastern partnership countries and the importance of ukraine being able to maintain its sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence.
in writing. - this dossier brings to the fore the fact that over the past ten years the eu has maintained a negative trade balance with vietnam, as illustrated again by the figures for the second quarter of 2013, which show total trade to the value of eur[nbsp ]13.4 billion, with the eu’s imports from vietnam amounting to eur[nbsp ]10.5 billion, while eu exports to vietnam were worth eur[nbsp ]2.8 billion. it also brings to the fore the fact that this represents a sharp decrease compared to the figures for 2012, in which year total trade amounted to eur[nbsp ]23.871 billion, made up of eur[nbsp ]18.520 billion in imports from vietnam to the eu and eur[nbsp ]5.351 billion in exports to vietnam from the eu.
in writing. - the aim of this resolution is to further enhance the bilateral trade ties between the eu and vietnam. vietnam, as a member of the association of southeast asian nations, can play a key role in encouraging trade between the markets of the european union and those of south-east asia. i therefore support the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it is an important agreement for relations between the eu and vietnam.
in writing. - this dossier puts forward, as a matter of urgency, the need to step up efforts to ensure that smes, especially innovative ones, are encouraged to flourish through administrative simplification and the provision of targeted support in all policy areas. it also puts forward the need to conduct sme tests transparently and properly when developing legislation and, as a matter of urgency, to propose lighter regimes and exemptions across a wider range of legislative proposals in order to significantly reduce smes’ costs. most importantly it stresses the need to simplify excessive administrative formalities, while at the same time retaining necessary provisions that ensure health, safety and protection at work or require companies to provide their staff with a suitable working environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it recommends the clear measures to be taken and the need for smes to be involved in the consultation process in order to further improve their ability to succeed. moreover, the resolution emphasises the importance of using the required administrative tools to remove the existing burdens faced by many of europe’s smes.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution in line with my political group.
in writing. – at a time when many european economies face significant economic and social challenges and are still at the forefront of their recovery, i believe that it is vitally important to explore the potential of every opportunity that would stimulate growth, create jobs and could also help europe in its long-term recovery from the economic crisis. i believe that this agreement, if negotiated properly, could be of great benefit to our economies and will open up new opportunities for european companies, especially small and medium-sized ones. current impact assessments suggest that an ambitious and comprehensive trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership could bring eur 119 billion per year to the european economy and boost eu gdp by 0.5 %, which would translate into an extra eur 545 a year for each a family of four in the eu. however, having said so, i would call on the commission to be extra cautious and to ensure that european values are properly defended in the talks and in the final agreement. such values include well-established precautionary principles with regard to consumer protection and consumer product safety, as well as safeguarding the euʼs labour and environmental standards.
member of the commission. - madam president, in his inaugural address two weeks ago in strasbourg, the president of the european parliament outlined to this assembly what he sees as the major challenges facing europe. the first challenge he mentioned was the shocking level of youth unemployment, which he sees as a source of desperation and hopelessness that constitutes a threat to our democracy. those are very strong words. as we all know, they are perfectly warranted, mainly, but not exclusively, in respect of the countries and regions of the eurozone periphery, which have been affected by a dramatic rise in youth unemployment in recent years. the commission has been adamant about keeping youth unemployment at the top of the eu agenda and launched an unprecedented range of measures combining policy and financial support. i would like to thank the european parliament for its support both in terms of bringing about the youth guarantee and of ensuring adequate resources from the european union budget. under the youth guarantee, all member states have committed themselves to ensuring that all young people under 25 receive a good-quality offer of employment, continued education, or an apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of leaving formal education or becoming unemployed. the youth guarantee is a major structural reform, as well as a key social investment. in order to support the implementation of the youth guarantee, the commission launched a european alliance for apprenticeships and put forward a quality framework for traineeships. all 28 member states have now submitted youth guarantee implementation plans as requested by the european council. i welcome the efforts made by the member states to put in place the youth guarantee schemes. i recognise that this is not an easy task, as it requires strategic reforms. the commission has assessed the national youth guarantee implementation plans as part of the 2014 european semester. the analysis shows that progress has been made across the board. however, there are a number of challenges, including strengthening the capacity of public employment services, providing quality offers, reforming education and training systems, and reaching out to inactive young people. altogether, 18 member states received country-specific recommendations focusing on one or several of these points i have just mentioned. a total of eight member states were invited to act more decisively to implement the youth guarantee. making the youth guarantee happen requires that all available resources are there to get started as quickly as possible and achieve concrete results, already in the short term. the european social fund, with more than eur 10 billion every year in the 2014-2020 period, is the most significant source of funding for implementing the youth guarantee. in addition, the european council has agreed to launch a youth employment initiative targeting young people aged between 15 and 24 not in employment, education or training – the so-called ‘neets’ – who live in the regions most affected by youth unemployment. this is a dedicated financial tool worth eur 6.4 billion which directly targets individuals and supports the implementation of the youth guarantee schemes. the initiative should focus on job-creating measures, including well-targeted wage subsidies and recruitment subsidies, apprenticeships and traineeships. it can also support activation measures such as job search guidance and assistance, as well as further training. the parliament and council agreed to frontload the youth employment initiative resources so the eur 6.4 billion are committed in 2014 and 2015 rather than over the entire period between 2014 to 2020. parliament also agreed to allow member states to claim related expenditure from 1 september 2013. this means that the commission can reimburse the member states once the relevant operational programmes are adopted. in addition, when a member state chooses to programme the youth employment initiative under a dedicated operational programme, the commission can approve it before the adoption of the partnership agreement, thereby speeding up implementation. where do we stand now? france and italy have presented such dedicated operational programmes. the commission approved them in june and july respectively. as a result, eur 1.5 billion, or a quarter of the total allocation, has already been committed. in addition, 11 out of the 20 eligible member states have officially submitted operational programmes covering youth-employment-initiative-related actions. seven member states have not yet done so. last friday, the commission organised a seminar to support member states in accelerating the programming and practical implementation of the youth employment initiative. on this occasion, the commission clarified outstanding issues regarding the programming of the youth employment initiative and had bilateral technical meetings with the member states. following the seminar, i am sending a letter to ministers, encouraging them to ensure swift completion of the youth employment initiative programming. the youth employment initiative, together with the youth guarantee, should be a reality on the ground as a matter of urgency. we cannot afford to delay the implementation of such a crucial initiative. the commission encourages member states to continue their efforts to ensure swift implementation of the youth employment initiative. the commission will continue to assist them in this endeavour and, at the same time, we also have to continue developing the macroeconomic framework in order to ensure that fiscal and monetary policies become more supportive for growth and job creation in all countries and all regions of the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. yes, we have an unhappy situation in the european union. in march this year, more than 5 million and 3 million people under the age of 25 were living in the eu. 7 and a half million europeans between the ages of 15 and 24 are not employed and not in education or any other form of training. the situation is such that young people at all levels of education are finding it difficult to find work. in the medium and long term, we need to understand that in order to bring more people into the world of work, we need more people to employ. we need to take measures to find more people who can work. because only then can we have more jobs to be filled by jobseekers. we must continue to strive to create an enabling environment for small and medium-sized businesses to continue to succeed and to continue to grow. but the gravity of the situation requires that we use more direct assistance. we should welcome important tools such as the youth guarantee. but there should be more adequate funding. and more importantly, the funds allocated to be spent should be spent wisely and intelligently. in this parliament at the moment, mr commissioner, we are trying to combine our efforts across all the groups to find a consensus, to find a motion that binds all the ideas of our political groups. last night we arrived, i think, with a little more, from here and a few more minutes, a little more effort to help you achieve this goal. let us put an end to youth unemployment once and for all because it is dangerous and bad for our european citizens. i would like to thank the coordinators of the colla groups for their efforts. thank you.
in writing. - this report confirmed lithuania’s progress in complying with the convergence criteria under article 140(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, namely: the compatibility of national legislation with articles 130 and 131 and with the statute of the european central bank; the achievement of a high level of price stability; the sustainability of the government financial position; compliance with the normal fluctuation margins of the european monetary system’s exchange rate mechanism for at least the past two years; durability of convergence, as reflected in long-term interest rate levels; and financial stability. i look forward to lithuania joining our common currency soon and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i support this report on the adoption by lithuania of the euro on 1 january 2015. since lithuania is the last baltic state to adopt the euro, it is very positive that the country has achieved a high degree of sustainable convergence with the euro area and that it fulfils the conditions for adopting the euro as its currency. i believe it is essential for the european union to have a single currency for the member states and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it supports ukraine in preserving its unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity and emphasises the measures to be taken to strengthen political and economic reform and the rule of law. moreover, it stresses the deep concern over the deteriorating conditions of human rights and the worsening humanitarian situation faced by civilians, activists and journalists.
in writing. - i support this resolution, which calls on everyone involved to stop the violence and to contribute to finding a lasting political solution. moreover the resolution calls for additional efforts in the field of anti-discrimination, noting with particular concern the negative attitude towards lgbt and the fact that two right-wing parties of ukraine openly identify combatting homosexuality as one of their political tasks. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the aim of this resolution is to guarantee the effective and coherent implementation of the european commission’s youth guarantee programme, reiterating the measures to be taken for europe to have an active, comprehensive and integrated labour market policy with special measures for young people. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - job creation is the backbone of the economy, and job creation is fundamental to sustainable economic growth, a decent standard of living, and the well-being of society. i believe that education is one of the elements that has a direct impact on job creation. while many governments invest heavily in education, this investment must be made with a vision for the future. we need to ensure that educational institutions produce young people with the qualifications that the labour market requires. the problem of skills' mismatch must be addressed and monitored continuously because the needs of the world of work are changing all the time. education is important for job creation and the union should ensure that all member states have the financial support to strengthen this link to economic growth and the well-being of society. i am sure that the new commission president juncker will change his mind about the need to invest in the youth guarantee scheme - that is, not to increase funds to 21 billion to 6 billion before these funds are used. the union must not be complacent about the investment needed to create jobs for young people. the resolution addresses the above-mentioned points and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it seeks to safeguard the livelihood of the iraqi people and endeavours to protect those vulnerable from the continuing acts of violence perpetrated against them. moreover, the resolution aims to further strengthen the eu’s efforts to assist iraq in promoting democracy, human rights, good governance and the rule of law.
in writing. - i support this resolution on the situation in iraq, which calls on the iraqi government to make every effort to protect all civilians and provide essential services and safety to all of its population who are affected by the surge of the is and welcomes the increase in the eu humanitarian assistance to iraq.
in writing. - this resolution urges the international community to increase their efforts in finding a workable and immediate solution to the current conflict and stresses the need for a rapid de-escalation of the violence against innocent civilians. furthermore, it stresses the belief that both israeli and palestinian citizens have the right to live in peace and security and that both sides need to ensure that international law is followed and respected. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i am in favour of this resolution, which calls for serious and credible efforts by both sides and the international community to resume direct peace talks between israelis and palestinians, and to achieve concrete results in these talks. it urges the eu and its member states to play a more active political role in this regard, including through a european peace initiative and plan. last but not least the resolution stresses that both israeli citizens and palestinian citizens have the right to live in peace and security; and stresses the need for all sides to respect international humanitarian law. that is why i voted in favour
in writing. - this resolution highlights the eu’s commitment in combatting acts of genocide, crime against humanity, war crimes and the crime of aggression and urges the establishment of permanent system of international criminal accountability for those committing such a crime. it is for this reason why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i support this resolution, which calls on the eu to commit to the fight against genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and the crime of aggression, as well as calling for combating impunity for grave human rights violations to be made a priority for the eu and for the member states in their external actions. i have voted in favour.
in writing. – this agreement signifies the choice of the people of ukraine to foster within their country european values. this choice deserved my vote.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement, as a european citizen who values the contribution ukraine can give to the economic wellbeing of our union, and the talent that it can contribute to our continent. i also want to believe that the integration between the european union and our ukrainian neighbours can go even further. meanwhile, i welcome the ceasefire in eastern ukraine and ask both sides to respect it. we should also support talks between ukraine and russia, and help ukraine regain stability and implement crucial political and economic reforms.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this recommendation as it gives its consent to the establishment of a political and economic association agreement between the eu and ukraine. more specifically on the trade aspect of this agreement (the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement – dcfta), this will provide for a mutual opening of the markets and the gradual approximisation to the eu norms. this agreement will also ensure that, through tariff liberalisation alone, ukraine’s economy is expected to be boosted by around eur 1.2 billion per year.
in writing. – i fully support the agreement because i strongly believe that it is an important step towards further economic and political integration between ukraine and eu. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. – voting in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement as regards the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party is another way of supporting the ukrainian european choice.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution, as it is a continuation of the primary vote on the eu-ukraine association agreement. i believe that within the context of the current political situation within a european neighbourhood we must strengthen relations with ukraine and widen our relations with the country. additionally, the association agreement seeks to protect third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of another party, thus abiding with the european charter of fundamental rights (article 15.3).
in writing. – this recommendation concerns specifically article 17 of the eu-ukraine association agreement. this article contains specific obligations relating to the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party. i have voted in favour of this recommendation as it strengthens and widens the relations between the eu and ukraine, drawing the latter closer to europe while also further strengthening the close historical relationship and progressively closer links between the eu and ukraine.
in writing. – taking into account the close relationship and closer links between the european union and ukraine and the current political situation within the european neighbourhood, i fully support this report which will strengthen and widen relations with the association agreement between eu and ukraine
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i thank each and every one of you for the diversity, the intensity, the quality of this debate. i believe that mr schwab and his colleagues who took this initiative will not regret it, given the richness of this debate. he himself, like mrs róża thun or mr hökmark and many others, most recently mrs šuica, spoke of the economic importance of the digital market and i mentioned the potential it holds if a number of technical, fiscal and administrative barriers are removed. i also want to say - and this has been the spirit of my work for the last five years as commissioner for the single market and financial services - that there is an economic dimension to the single market, but also a social, human and civic dimension, with issues related to freedom and data protection, and also a cultural dimension. it is with all this in mind that we must give this impetus to a project, mrs šuica, which is indeed the project of the present and not the project of the past or the future. we are in the present to make this digital single market live. you have to move on, that's what you're going to do with the next college. it is absolutely necessary to implement the rules agreed together. mr lópez-istúriz stressed implementation through directives, texts, monitoring, evaluation and your parliament has a very important role of monitoring the commission and the council. i say this to mrs spyraki, who asked for the pace to be increased. it is also necessary to be conscious or realistic. i was just listening to your estonian colleague, who has left us, mrs marju lauristin, who was referring to a point which i attached great importance to, and which i mentioned earlier, namely that electronic signatures are, in the great work of digitising public procurement and many other issues, one of the key elements of electronic invoicing and the reform of public procurement which i have implemented with you. i could tell mrs lauristin that it took two years between the proposal the commission made and the vote in parliament and the council to arrive at a text which is not yet fully operational. mrs gebhardt, mr albrecht, mr borelli, mrs verheyen and many others have spoken about net neutrality, as i have done. i think everyone should have access to services, applications on an open internet. the commission has proposed european legislation to prohibit all kinds of blocking, throttling or discrimination of specific content, applications or services, with very limited exceptions. the regulation proposes to promote innovation as a guarantor of the open internet while allowing specialised services such as digital television or other services that may emerge in the future provided they do not hinder the open internet. parliament has supported this proposal and we hope that an agreement can be reached before the end of this year. on cybersecurity, mr albrecht and mr voigt asked where we stood on the legislative proposal on network and information security. your assembly has adopted its report at first reading, the council is in the process of finalising its negotiations and i hope that the trilogues can begin soon under the very active italian presidency. vicky ford and others have mentioned consumer protection, which is a priority, which justifies the commission's action in the field of data protection, and i myself have spoken about this earlier. another example of this is taking consumers into account, online payment, so that they are protected in their daily payments, and i say this to mr albrecht by raising the standards upwards and not downwards. mrs ford also mentioned, as did mr nica, the great work of inclusion that is being done in the digital single market. the whole single market, all member states, must be covered by the internet. all citizens, wherever they are, the most vulnerable, the most remote, the most isolated, must receive appropriate services and this justifies the investments that mr murean has mentioned with great competence and dynamism, as has your colleague mr weiden holzer. this is the meaning of the proposal for a single telecommunications market, for which we hope to get a quick agreement, and also of the investments that can be made in this digital area through the initiatives that president juncker will propose to you. i'd like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen. many of you have pointed out the work i have had the honour of doing for the last five years and i would like to thank in particular, on your behalf, one of your younger colleagues, mrs there is no complacency, there is no nostalgia. the commission has continuity, a new impetus. a new era will begin when we emerge, i hope, from this financial crisis which i and all my colleagues have had to face. i simply think, mr president, that this debate, its quality, its diversity, is a very important signal for the new commission. this is a priority for the commission, as president juncker has indicated, as mrs sander has said, by appointing prime minister andrew ansip to coordinate this work, and my colleague günther oettinger to be in charge of this subject, as the commissioner-designate, mrs bieńkowska, responsible for the internal market and therefore for the dialogue with small and mediumsized enterprises. many of you have mentioned the opportunity that this can be - if we want to make it easier technically, legally, fiscally - for small and mediumsized enterprises. i think it is a real issue to put citizens, consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises back at the heart of the internal market. that was the goal i set before you five years ago. we have made great progress, as you have said, but i think the next commission will have to make more, with the voluntarism that president juncker has mentioned.
in writing. – we are living in a digital era that not only changes the way we communicate and the platforms where we work but also our consumption patterns. we buy and sell goods online rather than at local shops. for this reason, a well-functioning eu single market should also adapt to this ‘new’ digital era. still today, we face difficulties in our european cross-border trades; and far too many barriers still block the free flow of online sales and services across national borders. i believe that we must update the eu single market rules for the digital era, and we should aim for: 1. enabling our businesses to compete across all eu countries by making online selling an option for all of our businesses; 2. establishing a single area for online payments; 3. fostering the involvement of smes, making them more knowledgeable about online systems; 4. protecting eu consumers in the cyberspace; 5. empowering our citizens and economies in the digital era. i truly believe that europe’s digital potential should be recognised and supported by eu legislation. i give my full support for this huge eu project.
in writing. – completion of the digital single market in europe is a key component of europe’s convergence into a knowledge-driven economy fostering competitiveness, economic growth and highly-qualified jobs in europe. completion of a digital single market requires urgent actions at all political levels ensuring that all citizens, regardless of their location, have access to the internet and the necessary skills to use it. we need to face many challenges in completing the digital single market. despite the crisis and the high level of unemployment, the commission estimates that more than 700 000 to 1 million high-quality ict jobs will not be filled. e-skills and digital education, therefore, can be of extraordinary importance in tackling rising unemployment, especially among young people; the commission and the member states should seize the occasion and take ownership in empowering european citizens with the appropriate digital skills and reducing digital literacy and competence gaps by half by 2015.
climate change and its effects are a reality and malta was one of the first countries to raise this issue, almost a quarter of a century ago at the united nations. what seemed a distant concept then, is now living and affecting the world's most vulnerable populations. scientific studies for 2050 point to a future of extreme weather, with severe heat waves, severe drought and cities by the sea ending up submerged. this is the nature of the problem and therefore requires immediate action. today solutions exist; solutions that can help us reduce emissions to move towards cleaner and more sustainable economies to truly reduce the risk that climate change brings. reducing greenhouse gas emissions is needed and must be at the heart of our environmental policy, not only in the member states of the european union but also in the world's major economies. i therefore wish the un climate summit in new york to be a success, with clear targets, and achievable and hope that we will have greater dedication and commitment from all countries at the paris summit next year.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad to have the opportunity to take part in this important debate which is actually also very closely linked to the discussion we had on the previous point. the prospects for young people to enter the world of work are of particular concern and are one of our highest priorities. we all know how serious the situation is, the continuing slow growth environment will continue to hold back employment prospects. the economic recovery in the first half of 2014 has been fragile, uneven -- we've discussed this before, you've discussed this before -- and it hasn't had a real effect on job creation so far. the rate of youth unemployment in the european union remains high, currently on average more than two and a half times that of adults, affecting over five million young people under the age of 25 in europe. youth unemployment rates are still unacceptably high in many member states. we all know that unemployment and youth inactivity have high costs. these costs are not just a short-term social factor, there will be a considerable economic price to pay in the long run. the leaders of the european union are well aware of the seriousness of the situation. they have provided a significant political impetus at numerous european council meetings over the past two years. last year in particular, they agreed firstly to provide additional funding of eur 6 billion for the youth employment initiative and to advance this over the next two years. this will be particularly important as it will allow for the effective implementation of the measures under the youth guarantee and secondly to invite member states benefiting from the youth employment initiative to commit to adopting concrete plans for the implementation of the youth guarantee. let me briefly explain some of the points of the youth guarantee scheme which, as you know, was adopted in april last year. in line with the council recommendation, member states should ensure that young people receive a qualitatively valid job offer, further education, apprenticeship or traineeship within a period of four months after leaving the formal education system or starting unemployment. all member states have submitted their plans for implementing the youth guarantee. they have been assisted by the commission, which assesses and provides feedback on the measures taken by the member states. we are pleased to say that the first assessments indicate a high level of commitment by national administrations and good progress in implementation. the efforts made by the member states in designing and developing these plans are a true testament to their commitment. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the work of the employment committee which has helped to promote a better understanding of the policies and programmes put in place by the member states. the council also closely followed the implementation of all these measures. in recent discussions, ministers reported on the experience gained in implementing the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. they stressed, however, that more needs to be done. the council is closely following the important contributions of parliament to these debates. we fully share the position expressed in the resolution of 17 july this year that strong measures are needed to combat youth unemployment. there is the specific challenge of addressing the structural causes of youth unemployment. we support your call for systematic and articulated action in the context of reform of apprenticeship systems or vocational education and training, or in the context of vocational guidance and support, skills development and matching, or early intervention to prevent early school leaving. there is no alternative, europe must ensure that young people can find a job or that they are reintroduced into education and training. we must continue to invest in the younger generation. it is essential that member states decide on concrete measures to increase the employability of young people, improve their prospects of entering the labour market and make the transition from education to work easier. focus should be placed on adapting national education systems to the needs of the labour market. similarly, on the demand side, more needs to be done to facilitate access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises - we have discussed this before, you have also discussed this before - so that they can create jobs. vocational training and apprenticeships are of particular importance and the european union has recently adopted a number of initiatives in this field, such as the european alliance for apprenticeships and the quality framework for traineeships. the entry of young people into the labour market is essential, but it is up to the member states to choose the right policies and to take effective measures. at eu level, member states receive assistance and financial support, but a one-size-fits-all solution is not adequate. each member state faces different challenges, and it should also be noted that the current economic situation does not make the tasks ahead any easier. many of today's challenges are not necessarily structural but cyclical, depending on economic conditions. it is therefore essential to get our economies back on the path to job-creating growth. to this end, all actors need to join their efforts towards achieving this common objective. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian presidency will continue to give top priority to improving the situation of our young people. the last european council welcomed our intention to organise a summit on employment, especially youth employment. this high-level event will follow on from the conferences held last year in berlin and paris. but we have been forced to postpone the event, which unfortunately will not take place on the scheduled date. in conclusion, let me express our hope that the new european commission will continue to take a firm and decisive stance in tackling the challenge of high youth unemployment.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for its support for the commission’s efforts in developing and implementing the youth guarantee. the youth guarantee is one of the most important and ambitious reforms proposed by this commission. as you know very well in this house, the youth guarantee is a fundamentally new approach based on the best existing models within the european union, namely those of austria and finland. it is a key structural reform that requires in-depth changes to education, training and job search systems in order to facilitate and accelerate the transition from education to employment. the concept of the youth guarantee has been endorsed by the g20 employment ministers meeting last week in melbourne. we have been working very hard with the member states to implement the youth guarantee. a few months ago, all member states submitted comprehensive implementation plans to the commission. since then, they have passed new laws, established innovative working methods, and upgraded the support provided by the public employment services. pilot projects are also running in a number of member states. so implementation of the youth guarantee is well on track and is already bringing results. compared to other structural reforms in europe, the youth guarantee is probably the one being most rapidly implemented. as president schulz highlighted a few day ago at the cohesion forum, significant eu funding dedicated to implementing the youth guarantee has been made available to the member states, including through the frontloading of the eu budget. let me inform you of the state of play of the dedicated youth employment initiative resources with the latest data. the commission has received all 34 operational programmes which include resources from the initiative. 26 out of 34 will be adopted in 2014, covering about 85% of the total amount of the youth employment initiative. as regards financial allocations, we can therefore ensure on the basis of the submitted operational programmes, that all the eur 6.4 billion of the youth employment initiative will be committed in 2014 and 2015. in addition, on the basis of the draft operational programmes submitted by the member states, we can foresee that over eur 4 billion of additional european social fund resources will be committed to supporting youth employment. in other words, the member states have – at this stage – approximately eur 10 billion to support young people. what about the actual action on the ground? some member states have already stated that they are making use of the early eligibility date, i.e. 1 september 2013, and they are funding measures on the ground that can be reimbursed from the initiative and esf resources. i have asked national authorities to provide us with concrete information on the estimated number of young people who benefit from these measures and on the types of measures financed by the member states in 2014. i expect to receive this information from the member states by the end of this month. the level of unemployment has been decreasing in europe in the last year, but it is still very high, and there are still more than 5 million young people among the unemployed. i believe the youth guarantee will help to make an economic recovery job-rich, and it will make a systematic and decisive improvement to school-to-work transitions. however, we should not forget that, in the absence of overall economic growth, it would be impossible for any labour market reform to solve and economic crisis of such a magnitude as we have experienced in europe. in other words the youth guarantee will deliver much more when it will be accompanied by adequate and more supportive macroeconomic instruments, and i very much count on the italian presidency to keep all this high on the political agenda.
on behalf of the ppe group. since the outbreak of the economic crisis, member states have been hit by unacceptable levels of unemployment. the consequences of all this are still being felt today. when you have a situation where young people are finding it difficult for a long time to find the desired job, their employment prospects continue to decrease over time. the youth employment initiative can help to achieve important results. the smart implementation of schemes by member states that emerge from this initiative has the potential to break the negative cycle of so many countries experiencing this event. it is regrettable that despite this initiative being in place for over a year, these funds have not been accessed to date, and i therefore encourage member states to come up with smart proposals to implement the tools at their disposal in the best possible way. compared with other similar areas of development in the european union, the european union suffers from a comparatively deficient entrepreneurial culture. it is important to help our young people to find jobs, but if this does not happen we have to create jobs for them ourselves and eventually be on the side of the employers. today, mr president, is perhaps the last time i will address commissioner andor, and i would like to take the little time i have left to thank the commissioner for all the work he has done over the last five years. we have not always agreed, of course, but we have always worked with mutual respect and in coalition to find the best solutions together with you. i assure you that this will continue to be the case in the next five years with the new commission. thank you for your work over the past five years.
in writing. – i voted in favour to support the provision of additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade partners.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this proposal, as i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an important tool that needs to be supported and developed further. this tool was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activities have ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. i believe that the mobilisation of eur 330 000 from the fund, covering technical assistance for the commission, is important in that it provides funds and support for further analysis of this tool. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information with the aim of creating a knowledge-based interface and to advise member states on using, following up and evaluating the egf. furthermore, the provision of this technical assistance is already stipulated in the egf regulation itself.
in writing. – up to 0.5% of the annual european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) amount can be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the european commission, in order to provide financing for the preparation, monitoring, data-gathering and creation of a knowledge base, administrative and technical support, information and communication activities as well as audit, control and evaluation activities necessary to implement the egf regulation, as stipulated in article 11(1) of that regulation. this report confirms that the eur 330 000 that have been proposed to be mobilised by the european commission for technical assistance in 2014 is below the maximum of 0.5% of the annual maximum amount of the egf. moreover, this same report confirms that the measures proposed by the european commission to be financed as technical assistance are in accordance with the egf regulation. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – i fully support this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes or a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. – i voted in favour to support workers (including providers, downstream producers and self-employed people) made redundant, whose activity ceased and was dependent on the primary enterprise in greece.
in writing. – i note that this particular application from greece submitted in respect of redundancies at the enterprise nutriart s.a and 25 providers and downstream producers – ar.zigas & sia and 24 self-employed people whose activity ceased and were dependent on the primary enterprise – complies with the requirements for determining financial contribution. i therefore agree that the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by greece. this is the reason for my vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. – the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to assist the re-integration of the same workers back into the labour market. this report confirms that the proposed financial contribution will cater for 25 providers and downstream producers and 24 self-employed people whose activity ceased. moreover, 508 workers will be targeted for egf co-funded measures. i have therefore voted in favour of this report which will give additional opportunities for the workers and families affected by these redundancies.
in writing. – i fully support this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes or a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. – the 1 513 redundancies are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. i voted in favour to support measures that integrate workers into employment through various ways and means including training courses and internships.
in writing. – i note that in this particular application from romania only one fourth of the workers dismissed in the enterprise sc mechel campia turzii sa, and one downstream producer sc mechel reparatii targoviste srl, are eligible for this help. the amount of eur 15 000 will be granted to 250 selected workers as assistance in initiating independent activities, alongside another eur 70 000 for information and publicity which should result in a better awareness of the egf contribution and more visibility of the role of the community in it. hence, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. – the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to assist the re-integration of the same workers back into the labour market. this report confirms that the proposed financial contribution will cater for 1 000 workers who have been made redundant in romania. i have therefore voted in favour of this report which will give additional opportunities for the workers and families affected by these redundancies.
in writing. – i fully support this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes or a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. – the redundancies in the said 661 enterprises are linked to global financial and economic crisis. support provided will improve the employability of workers and assist workers to reintegrate into employment and hence i voted in favour.
in writing. – i note that this particular application from spain relates to 904 workers in 661 enterprises in the food and beverage service industry in the region of aragon, who were made redundant or whose activities ceased over the period of six years as unemployment increased by 14 %. this complies with the requirements for determining a financial contribution and that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. – the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to assist the re-integration of the same workers back into the labour market. this report confirms that the proposed financial contribution will cater for 280 workers who have been made redundant by enterprises operating in the region of aragón. i therefore voted in favour of this report to give an opportunity for the workers and families affected by these redundancies to be reintegrated into spain’s labour market.
in writing. – i fully support this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes or a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. – i voted in favour as the redundancies in 89 enterprises are linked to global financial and economic crisis. such redundancies aggravate the unemployment situation in the relevant provinces. the support being provided will improve the employment prospects of the redundant workers.
in writing. – i note that this particular request by holland deals with 562 workers in 89 enterprises in the construction industry in the regions of gelderland and overijssel in the netherlands, as a result of negative trends in the construction sector. this complies with the requirements for determining a financial contribution and that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. – the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to assist the re-integration of the same workers back into the labour market. this report confirms that the proposed financial contribution will cater for 475 workers who have been made redundant in the regions of gelderland and overijssel. this report also confirms that the redundancies are linked to the global financial and economic crisis, mainly related to the policy of banks to implement more stringent rules for the provision of mortgages and credits. this was augmented by the austerity measures of the government to reduce national debt and budget deficit, which led to the reduction of public spending, thus having a considerable effect on the construction industry. i therefore voted in favour of this report which will give additional opportunities for the workers and families affected by these redundancies.
in writing. – i fully support this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes or a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. – i voted in favour as this measure will promote entrepreneurship and support reintegration of workers into the labour market.
in writing. – spain submitted this application following 587 redundancies in the manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork in the nuts ii region of castilla y león (es41) which were linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. this complies with the requirements for determining a financial contribution and that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. – the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to assist the re-integration of the same workers back into the labour market. this report confirms that the proposed financial contribution will cater for 400 workers who have been made redundant in the region of castilla y león. i therefore voted in favour of this report which will give additional opportunities for the workers and families affected by these redundancies.
in writing. – i fully support this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes or a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
since the beginning of the year, the ebola virus has killed more than 2 000 people and affected more than 4 000 in liberia, sierra leone and guinea nigeria and senegal have also been affected. although the european commission has stepped up its initiative to support and combat this crisis, international efforts have done little to contain this deadly virus. this problem is not just a matter of health, but of people's lives. this house, as well as the member states, have a moral obligation to the victims, the families and all those working in the health field, as well as to our citizens who could also be at risk if this virus enters europe. i would therefore like to appeal to the italian presidency and the european commission to give top priority to this life and death problem and to organise an emergency meeting to respond to this crisis as soon as possible. we need concrete measures, with everyone's support, to stop this epidemic from spreading further. we don't expect people to start dying in europe to move, but we are doing everything we can now to eradicate ebola from africa and make sure it never touches our countries.
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would remind the house that lady ashton, the high representative, is in new york for the important negotiations on the nuclear issue in iran, which are due to end on 24 november and are entering a critical phase at this very moment. i think that the serious and important discussion that took place there has taken up and extended many of the points that were contained in my initial speech and so i shall be very brief. the presidency certainly joins in paying tribute together with all the victims of this tragic crisis, in paying tribute to the prisoners who were recently murdered by isil and even more recently to the british and european citizen david haines, who was a humanitarian worker in syria just to do good and help those in need. the union will continue to support iraq's sovereignty and territorial integrity, to work to alleviate the suffering of all those trapped in the fighting in iraq and syria, and to assist neighbouring countries, especially jordan, which are working to help refugees. the european parliament has also strongly reaffirmed its role and its will to ensure that the iraqi and syrian people, regardless of their religion or ethnicity, are not left to their own devices in today's debate. i have heard the commitment of many of you, the desire that there should be a greater and more direct commitment also to ensuring the defence of the christians of the east. i think that what we are also trying to do, by supporting those who are taking action, is a way of recognising and trying to protect the right of free living of the eastern christians who have inhabited those regions since time immemorial. this is the commitment of the presidency of the european union, which also welcomes the commitment of the individual member states.
in writing. – member states know very well the consequences of cleansing of regions for reasons of religion, ethnicity or any other ground. the ill-treatment of persons because they are of different religious beliefs is unacceptable irrespective of the religion they profess. the usurpation of power to persecute civilians is unacceptable. this concerns us all even though we may feel safe within our own countries. we are one world and equal human beings; the persecution of even one human being, irrespective of where and who he/she is and what religion he/she professes or which gender he/she holds, offends each one of us.
we are talking about a situation that is door to door with us, door to door with us, with malta, where i come from, but also with europe, a situation of complete anarchy that has been completely forgotten for a very long time. and just as the situation in ukraine is a problem of all europe, the situation in libya is also a problem of all europe. the instability we have in libya today is helping the criminals who traffic people. the result: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i therefore agree that this resolution is damaging the situation in libya and the unprecedented arrival of irregular migrants on our shores. it cannot be that the member states continue to refuse to coordinate among themselves. we need to see the priorities identified in the mediterranean task force delivered. i therefore call on the international community to commit to a solution that secures a ceasefire and i urge the european union to work with the leading countries in the region and cooperate in particular with the united nations, which is the ideal forum for action on libya.
in writing. – violating the borders of an independent state is a threat to that state and a violation of international law. when that violation occurs subsequent to a choice in favour of europe made by an independent state, it becomes incumbent upon the eu to act. ukraine must be assisted in strengthening its internal stability, democratic structures of governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution, as i believe that whilst we need to support ukraine we also need to be diplomatically mature in the way we interact with russia. alongside my colleagues i welcome the ceasefire in eastern ukraine and ask all sides to respect it. i also believe that the eu should focus on supporting direct talks between ukraine and russia, in its efforts to assist ukraine with regaining stability and implementing crucial political and economic reforms.
in writing. – to keep the risk of ebola reaching europe low, the eu and its member states must be alert and prepared, and must also assist the african countries in which this human tragedy is taking place. the actions called for in this resolution will strengthen the protection of eu citizens in regard to the risks concerned.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as i support the call for the commission to take urgent steps towards country-specific plans for qualified health personnel, mobile laboratories, laboratory equipment, protective clothing and treatment centres with isolation wards. i also support efforts to strengthen scientific collaboration and technological support in the areas affected by this outbreak, paying particular attention to the engagement of local staff, including training.
in writing. – i support and even co-signed this resolution, which calls on eu member states to coordinate flights and establish dedicated air bridges in order to move health personnel and equipment to the affected countries as well as to carry out infection control and provide fuller information to improve public awareness on the risks. the resolution calls upon the european commission to intensify efforts and coordinate actions with the un to fight the ebola virus outbreak.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as the eu and its member states cannot stand still in the face of the persecution and ill-treatment of people on the basis of their religion, ethnicity, gender or any other ground.
in writing. – i am voting in favour of this resolution as the unprecedented violence deployed by the islamic state (is) in iraq and syria is extremely worrying. our group was deeply shocked by the mediatised executions of innocent individuals, be it syrians and iraqis in their hometowns or innocent foreigners. we believe the eu and its member states must do everything necessary to help free all the other prisoners.
in writing. – i support this resolution, which calls on all parties to the conflict in iraq to ensure the protection of the civilian population and for immediate support and humanitarian assistance for the displaced people in iraq. this resolution encourages the european commission to prepare a comprehensive programme in order to address the need to protect children and women affected by armed conflicts. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. – the eu has an important role to play in assisting the libyan people to follow a process of democratisation. it is of great concern to know that human rights are being violated in a gross manner and it would be crass not to act. this resolution signifies parliamentʼs concern regarding the worrying situation in libya. instability in libya also hampers border security and continues to slow down much needed cooperation between the eu, its member states and libya to tackle migration.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as i agree that the instability in libya is conducive to a scenario where more criminal gangs can engage in human trafficking. the present inability of the libyan authorities to uphold the rule of law means that there is less control over these criminal organisations, which can therefore extend their operations. the violence may also result in more libyans wanting to flee their country. these are to be added to the tens of thousands of other migrants from the region who are already in libya trying to earn some money to make the crossing. the result of this situation is hundreds of deaths in the mediterranean and harsh pressure on countries like malta and italy. i believe that the eu should not accept this criminality and should work with the united nations in order to end this conflict.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on all libyan parties to agree to an immediate ceasefire ending the fighting, and to engage in an inclusive political dialogue. this resolution is deeply concerned by the unprecedented arrival of asylum seekers and irregular migrants to italian and maltese shores and calls on the eu to follow up the priorities identified in the mediterranean task force and launch a political dialogue on migration issues with the libyan government.
in writing. – war does not only turn into harsh memories for those involved and cause human tragedies for those living through it; it wreaks havoc across generations, leading to instability within the societies involved. as a union which cherishes peace and human life, the eu and its member states cannot shirk the role they can play in alleviating victims’ suffering and in playing a role in promoting peace in this region.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as the situation in gaza and in the wider palestinian territories and israel is unacceptable. we need to relaunch the peace process towards a solution. the gaza war has caused 2 138 palestinian deaths – 490 of them children – and 70 israeli deaths in 50 days. it is unacceptable to have 36 palestinian members of parliament in jail – some without charge or trial. the european parliament must speak out on this very important issue. we recognise those in israel that are working for peace and reconciliation with palestine, and we believe in the legitimate right of israel to live in security. however, this cannot be used as a pretext to commit a humanitarian massacre like the one in gaza.
in writing. – i voted in favour on the resolution on israel and palestine after the gaza war and the role of the european union. the resolution stresses the importance of the european union developing options for effective and comprehensive action in the following areas: movement and access, capacity building, verification and monitoring, humanitarian relief and post-conflict reconstruction.
in writing. – i voted against because i am not in agreement with this resolution.
in writing. – the number of confirmed ebola cases across west africa is growing at an alarming rate. the eu cannot remain inactive when a humanitarian catastrophe of this nature occurs in third countries. in a globalised world such as ours, europe must recognise its responsibilities towards those in need and must have the necessary mechanisms to ensure that it acts in a rapid manner and through meaningful and effective action. while the risk of anyone becoming infected with ebola within europe remains minimal, the eu is not immune. member states need to step up infrastructural and operational preparations in the field of health services to be ready for any eventuality and to take all precautions in the interest of the general public and also those prone to encounter the virus, such as persons working in the security and health sector. the eu has a dual role: to act by assisting third countries as well as to ensure that its own member states are prepared.
in writing. – just a month ago, i was speaking before this house on the euʼs response to the ebola outbreak and as a result we adopted a resolution with recommendations. i am a little bit disappointed that one month after our discussion nothing has changed and the international community continues to underestimate the crisis. the only difference now is that what started as an ebola outbreak in west africa has evolved into a worldwide threat. although the commission has strengthened its support to tackle the crisis, too little has been done too late and definitely not enough. we need to turn our promises into actions and to fight this deadly disease on the ground. we also need to guarantee that laboratories, hospitals and public health services are ready to effectively protect our citizens and stop ebola from spreading if and when it arrives in europe. i would like to ask the commission: is the eu prepared for more ebola cases in europe? can the commission guarantee that european health systems are ready for the diagnosis and treatment of ebola? what is happening with medicine or a vaccine for the ebola?
in writing. in the face of the threat of ebola, public and international authorities have taken care not to panic. for months we have heard claims that downplay the threat. but as time went on, they were increasingly seen as overly optimistic. in african countries the crisis has worsened. cases of infection have emerged in europe and the united states. now, the world health organization is saying that the risk of a serious epidemic in europe and the united states is not great. it also says that the ebola threat is not being taken seriously. it is still happening. i am shocked that the mobilisation of initiatives in europe has remained so weak. from the outset, it was obvious that we could not respond to ebola at a national level alone. globalized transport and trade will easily take it all over the world. nor could we accept it merely on a medical level. beyond the areas of humanitarian aid, transnational mobilisation was also needed, inter alia, at the levels of transport, border control, research and development aid. europe has a vital interest in the african countries affected by the epidemic. however, it has not yet launched a strategic and integrated plan in all relevant areas. this is what i understood from the answer given to me by the european commission to the question whether we have an integrated plan against ebola. many european citizens are asking what the european union is worth to them. in the face of a threat such as ebola, which everyone fears, the union has been able to show that it can make a difference. this did not happen.
the reality is that the rate of investment in the european union has been declining since well before the crisis of 2008. after that, stagnation continued to increase. the reality is that to achieve greater competitiveness in order to create new jobs, we are in a system where the best tool has become internal devaluation. those who propose to ease labour markets and modernise social security systems are effectively promoting this devaluation. the process is seriously undermining the european social model where the public authority on the one hand guarantees full freedom to private enterprise and on the other ensures full protection to the people as workers and as citizens. today, the european social model is being reduced or even abandoned as a means of boosting the european economy. the european people do not want this. in fact, where it is being abandoned, the european social model is still not strengthening competitiveness. the truth is that the european economy is failing to face and manage globalisation. as it is currently being carried out, unchecked and without substantial adaptation, it is not compatible with the european social model. the resolution before us ignores this dilemma. the structures we have built to ensure that the member states of the european union remain competitive are too cumbersome, too bureaucratic and have so far certainly not succeeded. in all this, it is unacceptable if we agree that the european social model can be reduced or abandoned. european citizens will not agree to this, and rightly so.
in writing. - the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to support the re-integration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report confirms that 300 workers previously operating in the manufacture of fabricated metal products in spain will be targeted by the egf co-funded measures. personalised services for the redundant workers will include occupational guidance, promotion of entrepreneurship, vocational training and up skilling to build on skills and competences gained in the metal industry. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it will provide additional opportunities and support to the workers (and their families) affected by these redundancies.
in writing. - i supported this eu action because the egaf funding of eur 1 019 184 will contribute to the costs of measures for the reintegration of approximately 300 redundant workers into employment. i note that this application by spain relates to 633 redundancies in 142 enterprises operating in the manufacture of fabricated metal products in comunidad valenciana, linked to the global financial and economic crisis, during the reference period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for deploying the egaf.
in writing. - the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to assist the reintegration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report notes that between 2008 and 2012, spain lost almost 600 000 jobs in the metal industry. the comunidad valenciana metal application aims to support spain in reintegrating into the labour market workers from 142 enterprises manufacturing fabricated metal products who were made redundant due to the global financial and economic crises. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report, which will aid affected workers.
in writing. - i am fully supporting the report giving the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalization adjustment fund (egaf) in spain in relation to 633 redundancies in 142 enterprises operating in in the manufacture of fabricated metal products due to the global financial and economic crisis. the fund will help workers made redundant with occupational guidance, job placement, trainings (vocational training and upskilling, training in transversal skills, on-the-job training), promotion of entrepreneurship, incentives for setting up a business, job-search allowance, contribution to commuting expenses and employment incentives.
in writing. - the redundancies in the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh and in 10 suppliers of ford genk in belgium are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns and a consistent decline in sales of new cars in the european union. 479 redundant workers are expected to participate in the egf co-funded measures (including job-search assistance and training) aiming for the reintegration of redundant workers in the labour market. i have therefore voted in favour of this report since the measure not only addresses loss of jobs but also reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - i note that this application by belgium relates to 512 redundancies in the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh located in genk and in 10 suppliers of ford genk in belgium, operating in the car manufacturing sector, between 1 july 2013 to 1 november 2013. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and a rapid decline of the eu’s market share in the production of passenger cars. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for deploying the egaf. the egaf funding of eur 570 945 will provide assistance for the reintegration of 479 redundant workers into employment. hence, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist the reintegration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report notes that closure of ford genk in belgium will cause two more waves of redundancies expected to occur in 2014 of 650 and 4 000 dismissals. the ford genk application aims to support belgium in reintegrating workers who have been made redundant in the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh located in genk and in 10 suppliers of ford genk in belgium as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, back into the labour market. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in genk, belgium. the report will give the green light for the mobilisation of the european globalization adjustment fund (egaf) in belgium in relation to the redundancies of 512 workers in the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh located in genk. the egaf funding will providing assistance for the reintegration of 479 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. - the egf co-funded measures will include individual job-search assistance and training. such measures will support the reintegration of the workers back into the labour market. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i note that this application by belgium relates to over 900 redundancies at the production plant of carsid sa (‘carsid’) located in marcinelle near charleroi in belgium due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation between 28 september 2012 to 28 january 2013. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for deploying the egf. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded includes the following measures for the reintegration of 752 redundant workers into employment. in order to mobilise the fund, the commission has submitted a transfer request to the budget authority for a global amount of eur 911 934. hence i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist the reintegration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report cites how the number of jobs in southern hainaut of belgium has declined by 15.3% between 2007 and 2012, particularly in sectors where companies often employ a large number of workers. additionally, these workers will likely have to retrain to find alternative employment. therefore, i have voted in favour of the carsid application.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the mobilisation of the egf in belgium for the support and reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in the production plant of carsid sa (‘carsid’). the fund will help 752 redundant workers to get back into employment through job-search assistance, training and retraining programmes.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report as it will improve the employability of the workers affected by these redundancies and support their reintegration into the french labour market. moreover, the financial assistance will provide support to workers made redundant as well as self-employed persons whose activity ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. – this application by france refers to 2 357 out of 6 120 workers made redundant at the peugeot citroën automobiles aulnay and rennes plant. the french authorities state that according to oica statistics, the eu-27 manufactured 16.2 million vehicles in 2013, out of a world total of 87.3 million (18.54 %), down from the eu-15 producing 17.1 million vehicles in 2000, out of a world total of 58.3 million (29.41 %). the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for deploying the egf. the commission has submitted a transfer request to the budget authority for a global amount of eur 12 704 605 for personalised services to be provided to workers made redundant. these include external experts guidance, thematic workshops, training, training allowances and grants for business creation. hence i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist the re-integration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report articulates how redundancies in the aulnay plant of france have reduced the number of employees therein by 13.6%. in rennes and brittany, numbers are less steep but are, nonetheless, still very significant. redundancies in the european automobile industry have been drastic overall. thus, the peugeot citroën automobiles application aims to help france reintegrate these workers, who have been made redundant in their industry as a result of globalisation, back into the labour market. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in france, which will mobilise the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in peugeot citroën automobiles. the report concerns 2 357 out of 6 120 workers made redundant in peugeot citroën automobiles. the personalised services which are to be provided to workers made redundant consist of training and training allowances, among others.
in writing. – when i look back at the barroso ii commission there are notable positive features such as efforts in combatting child abuse and child pornography online. another positive was the introduction of incentives to increase the number of women in the it industry. others, however, are too negative to counterbalance these. tragedies in the mediterranean led the eu to create task forces, adopt packages and organise countless debates – but regardless of all this we had more immigrants dying in the mediterranean, and more eu citizens feeling disproportionate pressures. we still live in a union were 75% of asylum applications are processed in only 6 out of 28 member states. the barroso ii commission owed an obligation to its citizens to prepare itself for when the recession hit – but it did not. millions, particularly young people, are still unemployed while rising austerity measures and an increase in financial debt have left 120 million europeans at risk of poverty and social exclusion. most worrying of all is that during the last commission’s mandate the eu failed to connect to its citizens. i sincerely hope that the new commission manages to learn from these mistakes and makes a true difference for our citizens.
the european council and the commission have a challenge ahead of them, that of making policy that ensures affordable, secure and sustainable energy. and that is the balance we want to achieve, but to do that we need a complete and complete european gas and electricity network, linking together all the member states. there is an urgent need to end the energy isolation that some member states such as malta suffer from. projects of common interest designed to end this isolation should be considered a top priority for the european union. in an effort to diversify sources, routes and even suppliers, the european energy security strategy calls for a gas hub in the mediterranean. and yes, i believe that the mediterranean plays a crucial role in all of this. i therefore call on the european council to have the political will to make a climate and energy policy for the year 2030 that is ambitious and realistic and that focuses on energy security and measures to have the necessary interconnections in the mediterranean to end the situation of member states that are isolated and cut off from the european grid.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the new commission led by juncker since this is a commission that will be led by a president in a way that reflects also the vote of the people. furthermore, the commission´s work plan places social development high on its agenda, whereby economic growth is expected to be sought without excluding the social aspects. the commission is also expected to bring about investment in infrastructures related to education and employment.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the juncker commission as along with my political group, s&d, i believe that this commission can make a difference. this commission has also committed itself to support our agenda in addressing youth unemployment, enhancing competitiveness and focusing on energy and industry. we will hold this commission to this commitment. now it is time for the juncker commission to start delivering on what we have agreed upon including the eu 300 billion investment plan.
in writing. - this report intended to introduce the surplus to the budget, resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2013. due to the payment crisis, a historically low surplus of eur 1 005 million is to be entered in the 2014 eu budget. normally the surplus reduces the contribution of the members states to the eu budget by the same amount. i consider that this budget amendment is positive as it is taken in the best interest of the programmes in question that could have been negatively affected due to the lack of funds. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report as it proposes effective ways to allocate the surplus amount for the year 2013. this report also changes the breakdown of contributions between member states on the basis of the latest updated macroeconomic data.
in writing. - i support the draft amending budget (dab) no 2/2014, which is intended to introduce the surplus to the budget resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2013. in order to align the procedural calendar, the budg committee decided to keep the dabs of 2014 as a package. by keeping the three dabs as a package there are no additional costs for member states.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution as a whole. in so doing, however, i voted in favour of an amendment that prohibits the use of eu funds to finance lethal bullfighting; and i abstained on an amendment that proposes a roadmap towards the ep having one seat, since i believe that before we conclude whether there is to be one seat or not other measures could be considered to establish that political, historical and economic balance that the seat in strasbourg seeks to provide.
in writing. – in this complex vote i supported the move to restore the commission’s draft budget (thus rejecting the linear cuts to the administrative expenditure for the institutions made by the council), with some adjustments to take into account specific needs of the institutions.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report because it focuses on reinforcing those programmes that are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy that aim to foster growth, employment and competitiveness (namely horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus+, the digital agenda, progress and the social agenda, including eures and the microfinance facility). this will enable the eu to further contribute to a more innovative and prosperous economy throughout the union.
in writing. - i fully support the budget of the european union for 2015, as we successfully managed to negotiated a package deal agreeing on targeted increases above commission’s 2015 draft budget, especially for initiatives that will boost competitiveness, growth and jobs and will support initiatives in favour of reinforcements for asylum, migration and security. i also voted in favour of any amendments forbidding the use of any funds for breeders of bulls reared for bullfighting. the eu funds should not be used to finance the exploitation of animals and their agony.
in writing. – in this complex vote i supported to restore the commission's draft budget (thus rejecting the linear cuts to the administrative expenditure for the institutions made by the council), with some adjustments to take into account specific needs of the institutions.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report because it focuses on reinforcing those programmes that are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy that aim to foster growth, employment and competitiveness (namely horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus+, the digital agenda, progress and the social agenda, including eures and the microfinance facility). this will lead the eu to further contribute to a more innovative and prosperous economy all throughout the union.
in writing. - i fully support the budget of the european union for 2015, as we successfully managed to negotiated a package deal agreeing on targeted increases above the commission’s 2015 draft budget, especially for initiatives that will boost competitiveness, growth and jobs and will support initiatives in favour of reinforcements for asylum, migration and security. i also voted in favour of any amendments forbidding the use of any funds for breeders of bulls reared for bullfighting. the e.u funds should not be used to finance the exploitation of animals and their agony.
in writing. - i would like to register that my vote in favour of the motion is being made with great reservations. in the operation of the funds set under the annual budget, the union is implementing procedures of one size fits all. i will mention two examples from the experience of malta, the smallest member of the union, which is entirely an island. after malta, other countries joined as members. this had the statistical effect of lowering the average union gross domestic product per capita. malta thus lost access to certain structural funds. instead, the government negotiated and obtained additional financing under the current budgetary perspective. however, it is expected that small and medium-sized private farms will not benefit from these funds due to the union state aid rules. common sense tells you that the same rules should not apply to these funds. secondly, there is the case of gozo, a smaller island than malta with its own identity and special characteristics. it fell back due to double insularity. it needs regional leadership to develop. in an absurd comparison, the european commission decided against gozo being considered in this way by comparing it to the scandinavian islands. in the implementation of the european budget and the use of funds, an essential principle of what makes europe what it is is being forgotten - namely, a europe of nations. my vote is therefore conditional on the greatest possible reservations.
in writing. – this vote reflects the accession of croatia to the eu, which as a member state is to enjoy participation in the free trade agreement already in force between the eu and its member states of the one part and the republic of korea of the other. for this reason i voted in favour.
in writing. – the european union and the republic of korea adopted a mutual understanding on trade, known as the eu-korea fta, in 2011, with an majority of elected representatives from member states voting in favour of the agreement. trade agreements such as the eu-korea fta ensure guarantees and safeguards so that both parties reap the benefits. in order to safeguard trade agreements like these, the eu must ensure that new member states who join the eu fully participate in these forms of agreements. for this reason, i voted in favour of the reinstatement of this agreement taking into consideration croatia’s accession to the eu last year.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this recommendation, as this additional protocol to the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement will safeguard the integrity of the union’s internal market. moreover, this recommendation will also make sure that croatia continues to fully participate in the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the priorities where actions are needed and ties these priorities for action by the council and commission to the european semester.
in writing. – with my plenary vote i supported the outcome of the econ committee. this report requires a new investment policy, together with more flexibility in the stability and growth pact in order to allow greater focus on growth and quality employment creation in europe.
in writing. - this report supports the objective of focusing on policies that enhance competitiveness, support investment and job creation, fight unemployment and improve the functioning of the labour market, in particular in those sectors where there is a high growth potential. this report also calls on the commission to put in place a comprehensive mechanism that promotes an effective exchange of best practices between all national actors responsible in the field of youth unemployment. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of 2014 priorities, which calls for the rapid implementation of a new investment plan of 300 billion promised by mr juncker and focuses on policy priorities in fighting poverty, precarious employment and youth unemployment.
as we have said in this parliament, any initiative and action on immigration must look at all aspects. we need to work more on solutions such as helping countries in africa get back on their feet, to go deeper into the possibilities of legal routes to europe so that people do not jump ship in fear and danger of their lives. there must be a safe return policy for those not eligible for protection. we must be tough, yes, in the face of evil networks that exploit vulnerable people and not target those who are the weakest. everyone saw the tragedy beyond our shores of hundreds of people being killed at sea without any scruples. yes, action is needed, but it is essential that any operation is carried out with full respect for human rights and the principle of proportionality. i note that the fundamental rights agency also felt the need to send practical guides on how to conduct operations such as mos maiorum. the message is clear: we must respect these guidelines in every operation, regardless of who is running this operation. i would also like to call once again for a spirit of solidarity between member states. i hope that such operations will not lead to the paradoxical result of an increase in the responsibility that countries like mine, namely malta, have to face under the dublin system. the ball is now in the council's and the commission's court and i would like to ask the council a question here, because it is represented here: will it help to ensure that member states finally fulfil their responsibilities in this area?
we welcome this intraschengen police operation as an important step towards the union gathering the information needed to ensure that we act more effectively in the face of organised crime which continues to empower us from the suffering of those who have already been victims of a cruel fate in their own country. as an operation that is expected to provide information identifying the main transit flows of illegal or irregular migrants by land, sea and air into member states, operation mos maiorum is a clear example of what cooperation in the fight against organised crime can bring. however, the information that this operation promised to gather reveals the need to improve the link between the union's internal and external policies on immigration-related issues. in the case of trafficking in human beings, this data is expected to provide information that should lead to better and more effective european policy and action. this operation is a few days, so now what next? in order to keep the union up to date with the situations it is facing, consistency in the collection of information on migratory inflows, together with the careful analysis of that information, is needed. operational support is also needed to member states such as malta that are most affected by immigration. operational support that goes hand in hand with financial support ensures a more effective use of that financial assistance and better results. judicial cooperation is also as necessary as police cooperation. in all of this, however, the union and the member states should ensure effective solidarity with full protection of fundamental rights, including during the deportation and repatriation process.
the presidency of the european council says that operation mos maiorum should tackle crime rings and also collect information on illegal immigration routes. but is that really the case? because i understand that this operation could lead to immigrants who entered a country and then went to other member states being sent back to the country where their application was processed. why is that? they are considered illegal, and in my opinion, with all due respect, this is not acceptable. this measure would make sense if this parliament's call to update the dublin regulations were taken seriously by the countries blocking this step within the council. as things stand today, this operation means that these people are sent back to the border countries. and on the one hand, who will help the border countries? and on the other hand, when will we see concrete proposals to address the tragic situation we have in the mediterranean? when will we have a single european response? and when an asylum seeker is not sent back to the country he first entered? our citizens are hungry for fair words and beautiful speeches on responsibility sharing. they want to see change, they want to see real equality and they want to see results in full respect for human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because it follows on from a previous vote in favour of the implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement. however, the eu must see that european food standards are assured and that any negative impact on european industry is addressed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by the committee on international trade as i agree with the proposed extension of the preferential trade regime with ukraine. since may 2014, ukrainian exports to the eu have come under a preferential trade regime, which was granted by the eu unilaterally as part of a wider package to help ukraine. at the outset, it was agreed that the unilateral measures would be valid for six months until the association agreement and its trade part (the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement) were signed and applied. however, because, while the association agreement has been signed, its application is suspended for the time being, we need to move with the adoption of an extension, as the original agreement expires on the 2 november 2014.
in writing. – it is important to maintain the eu’s high level of support for ukraine while also boosting certainty about trade conditions for economic operators. it is thus crucial that parliament supports an accelerated procedure for considering this commission proposal, in order to ensure that the prolongation of the granting of autonomous trade preferences can be applied as of 2 november 2014 (i.e. without any interruption) until 31 december 2015. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on customs duties on goods originating in ukraine, which deals with the legal vacuum for existing exports from ukraine to the eu. the report extends the initially granted autonomous trade preferences until the end of 2015 and in particular until application of the trade agreement (the dcfta) comes into force.
in writing. - berec has continued to show a commitment towards keeping standards of independence, consistency and high quality regulation of electronic communications which benefits european citizens and consequently i have voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of supporting the 2012 discharge for the body of european regulators for electronic communications. however i believe that other measures should be put in place to ensure the full visibility of the euʼs budget. other aspects of their performance have improved significantly. the decision on granting discharge to berec was postponed in the spring as there had been concerns about poor performance in 2012. however this was due, in part, to the organisation having been newly established.
in writing. - the report has welcomed the measures taken by the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) to address the issues that were at hand, including the inclusion of a mandatory and detailed procurement checklist in the office’s financial manual, as well as the changes and improvements made to the existing recruitment procedures such as increased transparency in the recruitment process. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i supported parliament in granting discharge to the body of european regulators for electronic communications. despite the fact that the initial discharge was postponed, i acknowledge that there has been some improvement in the euʼs visibility on the organisationʼs website. nevertheless, close monitoring is needed to ensure that the presence of the eu budget in this organisation is made fully visible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of refusing the granting of discharge to the council and european council as there has been no progress on this matter since the spring. there is still a lack of transparency about the council’s finances and a continued refusal to provide information in response to committee questions. the report by the committee on budgetary control states that parliament is not in a position to make an informed decision. meanwhile the commission has indicated that it is not able to oversee implementation of the budget of other institutions, as that would infringe their autonomy. the report also states that citizens’ rights to information and transparency are being denied and that the council’s conduct shows a democratic deficit. the report calls for a political solution and a procedure to be established on document exchange in order to send positive signals to citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it refused to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the european council’s and the council’s budget for the 2012 financial year due to the number of issues still pending. this report, like others, reiterates the call to the council to inform parliament about the progress on construction, and the final costs projection, of the ‘europa’ building, and it also reminds the council of parliament’s call for a progress report on the ‘residence palace’ building project and a detailed breakdown of the costs incurred to date.
in writing. - i refused to grant discharge to the council due to a lack of transparency in the finances and its continued refusal to provide information in response to parliamentʼs requests. i believe that our citizensʼ right to information and transparency is paramount for all european institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour in support of a measure that aims at securing better conditions for workers, even if member states ought to be encouraged to provide more than the minimum required in this agreement.
in writing. - this motion proposes an agreement which sets minimum rules on working time for passenger and cargo transport ships in inland navigation across the eu. the new rules apply to crew members and shipboard personnel and complement the general working time directive which does not cover inland waterway workers. this means that this sector will be better regulated while protecting such workers. hence i supported this resolution.
in writing. - the resolution welcomes the fact that the agreement as concluded by the social partners and the commission proposal provide only for minimum requirements, thus leaving the member states free to adopt other measures which are more favourable to the workers involved in the area. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. – on 9 november we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall and the iron curtain that divided western europe from eastern europe. this event earmarked the beginning of a new era of freedom, democracy and cooperation in europe. it also brought about a stronger sense of european unity towards which the eu plays an important role. in the last decade alone, we have extended these values and many central and eastern european countries have joined the union in 2004, 2007 and 2013. as europeans we must remain vigilant that we do not allow the creation of a new line of division in europe. the fight of those who brought about the fall of the berlin wall was founded on their right to determine their own destiny, their aspiration towards the rule of law and respect for human dignity. the same spirit and resolve that led to the fall of the berlin wall must continue to guide us as we move forward in our european project.
in writing. – i wish to express my deepest concerns over the outright challenge to the sovereign rights of cyprus. this provocative action of turkey seriously affects security in the eastern mediterranean region. tension is definitely on the rise, and unfortunately hydrocarbons are inseparably linked to the problem; they have escalated rather than de-escalated the situation. in my view this move of sending warships was mainly aiming to monitor a greek cypriot oil-and-gas exploration mission off the coast of cyprus. i believe that the republic of cyprus has the full and sovereign right to explore the natural resources within its exclusive economic zone. all eu actions should, no doubt, aim for defending international law and the sovereign rights of cyprus, a member state of the eu, and its eez. in fact, the discoveries of large hydrocarbon reserves in the eastern mediterranean and around cyprus should provide further impetus for a political solution to the division of the island.
in writing. – one cannot but fully support the maintenance of humanitarian action by the eu in south sudan. also its extension and strengthening. however, the time has come for the union, on an autonomous basis, to initiate and improve its intelligence-gathering and assessment capabilities in sudan and contiguous areas regarding: security; changing patterns of tribal and ethnic tensions; land use; raw material resource potential and contested claims to such resources; climate change; and most importantly perhaps, ongoing population movements, voluntary or not. such capabilities are at present deficient. on population movements, we need to know what the prospects are over the short to medium term. tension and strife in the sudan and contiguous areas have triggered bloody civil wars, dilapidated infrastructures, destroyed stable social structures and forced millions to find refuge away from their home. this has contributed to the disruptive pressures of illegal immigration across north africa and the mediterranean. we need a better understanding of the extent to which these pressures can develop, or to which they can be relieved, so that humanitarian and immigration commitments are made by the eu and nation states within a framework that our citizens will consider to be reasonable, prudent and enlightened.
mr president, in may the european citizen showed that he wants a change in the leadership of europe. perhaps he also wanted the signal for change to come from this parliament. almost six months after the european elections, i ask: the change our constituents wanted, is it happening? i say it is not. i expect that we will have clear debates on what the european people want, on where, in recent years, good decisions have been taken and where mistakes have been made in the governance of the european union and the euro area. i expected questions about how european unity is affecting the lives of the citizens who elected us, for better or for worse, so that where there is change, there is change. instead, we continued what was being done here before may. in a few countries managers have understood who has become president of a commission, of committees, of delegations and i don't know more. a few import them. the arguments in favour of more or less europe leave citizens blind to what causes economic stagnation and brings so many people out of work. we do not discuss why the european social model is falling apart and how we can build a serious immigration policy. this agenda has been hijacked by political extremists, and so-called populists. this is a big mistake. the challenges facing european citizens have not been overcome by the technocratic speeches we hear, as if we had become functionaries of the international monetary fund. the challenges are overcome by having a political discourse without corners, between representatives of the european peoples, including discussing from the bottom up the political structures that have been built before us if they are not serving europeans well.
in writing. – mep ana gomes made certain statement while performing her duties as a member of the european parliament. this report states that her immunity should not be waived. i agree with this assessment and have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. – i have voted to reject the request for waiver of the immunity of ana gomes presented by the attorney general of the portuguese republic since it appears that the opinion expressed by ms gomes was in the exercise of her duties as an mep. it is important to ensure that in a true democratic society political expression on issues of public interest is not censored.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this report that has decided not to waive the immunity of ana gomes as it confirms that ms gomes has expressed her views as a member of the european parliament in relation to her work at a european level and therefore fulfilling her mandate.
in writing. – this report mentions skillsnets training support action amongst other things; this helps with reintegration of employment in the same sector or location and as a result of this unemployment is curbed. i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to support the re-integration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report confirms that 138 workers previously operating in the manufacture of jewellery, bijouterie and related articles in ireland will be targeted by the egf co-funded measures. personalised services for the redundant workers will include occupational guidance, career planning support, training grants, second and third level educational programmes. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it will provide additional opportunities and support to the workers (and their families) affected by these redundancies.
in writing. – i voted in favour since ireland’s application deals with the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in andersen ireland ltd operating in the manufacturing of costume jewellery, due to globalisation. it also deals with the provision of personalised services co-financed by the egf to up to 138 young people not in employment, education or training. the application refers to a total of 276 beneficiaries. in order to mobilise the fund, the commission has submitted a request for eur 1 501 200.
in writing. – this report notes that 500 workers in ireland have been made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the eu jewellery sector has been majorly outstripped by asia, furthering the disproportionately drastic unemployment in the andersen ireland region. thus, i have voted in favour of this report, which will aid affected workers.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund in ireland, which will set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to 171 workers made redundant in andersen ireland limited.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of the mobilization of the european globalisation adjustment fund regarding andersen ireland and similar cases brought before this house, because workers who are being adversely affected by globalisation deserve support. were it not so, i would have voted against. globalisation is not only experienced when businesses close down or when they reduce their number of employees as a result of recession. beyond the effects of 2008, globalisation has led to large disruptions within and between nations. trade and investment have been disrupted in countries adjacent to russia and the so-called arab spring countries, including libya. the worst affected are small businesses that invested heavily in trade relations which today are undermined by warlike or terrorist activities against the backdrop of civil war. firms hit by these events, which lost jobs and business, should also be supported in the same way as businesses adversely affected by globalisation. the commission’s response to my question on this issue was most unsatisfactory. it is unfair that the workers of smes, which invested in libya for instance, and are now facing huge difficulties, are not treated the same way as companies and workers presently benefiting from the egf.
in writing. – in this report the greek authorities argue that in this case sprider stores was present in all greece. a national problem such as this requires very special attention especially due to the fragility of greece. in light of this i have chosen to vote in favour of this report as through the egaf the eu is concretely helping to fight unemployment.
in writing. – the redundancies of 761 workers in sprider stores s.a., an enterprise operating in the economic sector in greece, are linked to the economic crisis. 550 redundant workers not in employment, education or training under the age of 30 are expected to participate in the egf co-funded measures (including occupational guidance, support for business start-up, vocational training and job search allowance) aiming for the reintegration of redundant workers in the labour market. i have therefore voted in favour of this report since the measure not only addresses loss of jobs but also reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this application from the greek authorities since it deals with the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in sprider stores and providing personalised services co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund to up to 550 young people not in employment, education or training. the greek authorities argued that due to the economic crisis in the country since 2008, thousands of enterprises have closed down, making their staff redundant and thousands of self-employed persons have ceased their activities, contributing to the sharp increase of unemployment.
in writing. – this report outlines the unemployment prevalent in greece and the loss of purchasing power and reduction of loans therein. with this funding, the 761 workers made redundant and up to 550 young people not in employment, education or training will be helped. i have therefore voted in favour of this report, which will promote entrepreneurship and help the reintegration of workers back into the workforce.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund in greece, which will set up legislative and budgetary instruments to provide speedy assistance and support following the dismissal of 761 workers, so they can go back into employment.
in writing. – this report highlights the effective steps moldova is taking to ensure its adherence to the political, economic and social norms within the eu. these are seen as steps that will highly benefit the people of moldova. agreement in areas of aviation, agriculture and civil protection can be seen as steps that will, in the words of the moldovan prime minister, result in submittal of moldova’s eu application in 2015. in light of this i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this agreement as it calls for a strengthening of human rights recognition and implementation as well as a strengthening of civil society in moldova. i also positively note moldova’s participation in the horizon 2020 framework programme.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the association agreement, between the european union and the republic of moldova because of the benefit to both sides and also as a sign of recognition of the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan people and authorities and of the substantial progress achieved in the latest period. i also join in the parliament’s call for free and fair elections in the country and for the upholding of human rights.
in writing. – this agreement is a recognition of the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan people and authorities, with their endeavours towards a visa-free regime and the emphasis on the need for a transparent business and investment environment, among other things. in recent years, moldova has made great strides in strengthening its relationship with the european union. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report, which will help to create new jobs and opportunities for the moldovan people, and will encourage civic participation.
in writing. – i support the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, which is a step in the right direction for the future relationship between the eu and moldova. the agreement will benefit citizens, businesses and consumers, providing better consumer protection and food safety, improved access to health services, more diverse and efficient use of energy resources and renewables and lower energy bills for both sides.
in writing. – this recommendation in essence focuses on moldova building a prosperous future within europe. whilst being aware that the implementation of the dcfta will require costly reforms, it can be seen that moldova is up to the challenge with the aim of modernising its economy and drawing in eu investments. in light of this recommendation benefiting both the eu as a bloc and the people of moldova i am voting in favour.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of the association agreement between the eu and moldova as it assists moldova’s choice for freedom and stability. the agreement will also strengthen the eu’s ties with the eastern neighbourhood. its immediate implementation is important for creating growth and jobs.
in writing. – i have given my consent to the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova because of the benefit to both sides and also as a sign of recognition of the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan people and authorities and of the substantial progress achieved in the latest period. i also join in the parliament’s call for free and fair elections in the country and for the upholding of human rights.
in writing. – this recommendation outlines the benefits that will result from the agreement between the eu and the european atomic energy community and their member states, in terms of energy security and decreasing energy costs. this agreement ensures transparency and efficiency, and aims to professionalise and depoliticise central and local public administration in order to aid in the implementation of the agreement. i have therefore voted in favour of this recommendation, which will have long-term benefits on the republic of moldova’s economy and the quality of life of moldovan citizens.
in writing. – i support the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, which is a step in the right direction for the future relationship between the eu and moldova. the agreement will benefit citizens, businesses and consumers on both sides by providing better consumer protection and food safety, improved access to health services, more diverse and efficient use of energy resources and renewables and lower energy bills.
in writing. – this motion notes that progress made in northern ireland has been a positive example of conflict resolution based on partnership and equality that has not only left positive results in northern ireland but also beyond. it also notes that violence and intimidation by fringe elements can undermine the broad effect of community participation. the european parliament is offering any support that will result in peace, and so i am voting in favour.
in writing. – the eu’s peace programme is aimed at strengthening progress towards a stable and peaceful society. the special eu programmes investment is shared between two funds – the peace iv programme, which aims to underpin efforts to build political stability and reconciliation, and interreg, which seeks to promote development and co-operation among the regions, including the republic, northern ireland and scotland. the peace iv programme has a strong youth element, concentrating on plans to enhance education and work training for young people and encourages greater levels of positive cross-community interaction. this deserves my support.
in writing. – this motion expresses concern at the fact that the implementation of the peace process in northern ireland has reached an impasse, and urges all parties to the process to work constructively towards a lasting resolution of the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements for a long-lasting and enduring peace. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. – this motion notes the unfortunate impasse of the implementation of the peace process in northern ireland, and expresses concern for any continuation of violent, criminal and anti-social activity and the effect this might have on coming to a desirable agreement. it articulates the need to combat criminal activity through the improvement of economic challenges, including unemployment and low incomes, in hopes that this will encourage social stability. therefore, i have voted in favour of this resolution, which will encourage dialogue on this matter, so that parties will come to an agreement that will ensure enduring peace.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution to support peace process in northern ireland, because i strongly believe that putting an end to all violent conflicts especially in the eu is essential for future prosperity and peace in europe.
in writing. – i fully support the principles behind this resolution. the european union must speak in one voice in calling for the sovereign rights of its member states to be respected. turkey`s actions constitute a violation of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and of international law, including the unclos. these actions and threats undermine the continuation of negotiations for a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem. this resolution is a reiterated call on the turkish government to sign and ratify the unclos, which is part of the acquis communautaire, without further delay. it is clear that turkey must act within international law. by initiating exploration for possible hydrocarbons in cyprus eez, turkey is also damaging its own interests with regards to its aspiration for european union accession.
in writing. – this resolution urges turkey to show restraint and act in accordance with international law. it also deplores the escalation of threats and unilateral action by turkey against the republic of cyprus in relation to cyprus’s exclusive economic zone and recalls the legality of the said eez. furthermore the resolution calls on turkey to respect and fully implement the declaration issued by the european community that the recognition of all member states is a necessary component of the accession process. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. – this report encourages turkey to act in accordance with international law and to respect the sovereignty of eu member states over their territorial waters. tensions between turkey and the republic of cyprus over an exclusive economic zone (eez) remain unresolved, so i have voted in favour of this resolution, which supports the rights of the republic of cyprus.
in writing. – i support the s&d position deploring the situation in the exclusive economic zone (eez) around the republic of cyprus and calling on turkey to withdraw its warships and respect the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus.
in writing. – i am in favour of almost all the content of this resolution condemning the fighting in south sudan as well as expressing deep concern at the humanitarian situation, security, political, economic and social consequences. all parties concerned should respect international humanitarian and human rights law and find a viable solution to the conflict and to engage seriously in peace negotiations. however, i abstained from the vote on the whole resolution following the amendment asking the authorities to implement sexual health and reproductive rights since this is an imposition of values on another state which are of national competence and which include abortion services with which i disagree.
in writing. – this resolution strongly condemns the resumption of violence and the repeated past violations of the ceasefire, which have caused deaths, injuries among the civilian population and have displaced hundreds of thousands of people in south sudan. it also deplores the weak command and control of the armed forces, which increases the likelihood of further fragmentation of fighting forces, potentially leading to increased violence and non-compliance with peace agreements. it also encourages the eu to reprogramme its development assistance in order to meet the most urgent needs of the south sudanese people. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. – i voted against one particular clause relating to reproductive health rights, which, in my opinion, fails to recognise that this particular issue should remain within the national competence of each country.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly an important moment, a timely moment to discuss the revision of the europe 2020 strategy and to discuss it in those priorities which are fundamental for the presidency, but which are also fundamental for the work, in general, that we are doing in the council. you know that the revision of the 2020 strategy has always been a priority of the italian presidency since the beginning of our semester, because we believe that this strategy must be relaunched and made more effective and because we believe that there is a dramatic level of economic and social crisis in europe to which the european institutions must give faster and more effective responses, primarily around horizontal strategies, such as the europe 2020 strategy. in your question and in your work you have raised a number of very important issues, and this is the very heart of the strategy. the 2020 strategy cannot be linked to one theme only, but it touches on many relevant themes to promote growth, to fight poverty, to create jobs. we are moving from an energy policy to a new knowledge policy and a sustainable development strategy. these are all topics that are linked horizontally when we talk about the new europe 2020 strategy. we wanted to include the discussion of mid-term evaluation and the identification of new priorities and the new method in all the formations of the council of ministers. and this was already a choice which was not only a choice of work organization but a choice of a clearly political approach. we believe that all the formations of the council of ministers must be active, proactive and contribute to achieving the results of europe 2020. we cannot continue - and this is a priority we have given to the functioning of the council of ministers in general, but it is particularly true of the europe 2020 strategy - we cannot continue to work with a council with compartments. we cannot develop large, mainstream, horizontal strategies covering various policies and then have a council of ministers that continues to work in stagnant compartments or that deals with europe 2020 in only one or two councils. no, this is the work we have to do, horizontal work. we have therefore discussed the main features of this strategy in all council configurations. it is a work which will be continued and finalised, as you know, by the latvian presidency which will be followed by the italian presidency. there are a number of points which have been made in the council. some fixed points which are first of all the objectives. we must maintain them and be more effective in achieving the objectives we set out in this strategy and which we have not achieved: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have to be ambitious, more ambitious. there are positive results in some areas, for example in education. we have had absolutely unsatisfactory results, i would say very worrying, also as regards the credibility of who we are and the credibility of our work, as regards the fight against poverty, as regards the fight against unemployment. it is clear that we must proceed with greater determination and effectiveness. the third important message i want to give you is the issue of governance. it is clear that we also need to rethink the way in which the europe 2020 strategy has been managed, starting with a greater alignment of the europe 2020 strategy and the european semester. this is another area where i believe we must make a difference together in the new legislature. we cannot continue to have parallel processes in the economic, social and development fields that occasionally meet and occasionally talk to each other. it is clear that we must develop in a much more integrated way all those economic strategies which tend to achieve the results that you and we want, and above all the results of job creation and the fight against poverty. so we certainly need to do better to integrate the processes we have developed so far under the europe 2020 strategy and those we have carried out under the european semester, and this is clearly work that requires more dialogue and more interaction. we are working (some progress has been made and i believe we need to do much more) to coordinate the work that is being done in the ecofin area and the work that is being done in the employment and social affairs council. we know very well, and i do not need to remind this house, that this is also due to a lack of competence, to a difference in powers of competence. on the one hand we have a process managed by the ecofin council in the framework of the european semester, which is made up of binding processes and possibly also sanctions, on the other hand we are still in the so-called open method of coordination as regards the social aspects of work. it is clear that there is an imbalance that we need to work on and we can start working on it by integrating the policies and priorities that are being put forward in the social field more closely with the priorities and processes that are already well regulated in the ecofin framework. this is certainly a very important point. the issue of involving the social partners was also raised by mr ulvskog, as is the very important issue. increased involvement of social partners is essential for the success and strengthening of the social dimension of the europe 2020 strategy at national and european level. that is why we wanted to focus on the very subject we are discussing this morning at the trilateral social summit which we held on 23 october during our presidency. the process of consulting the social partners, however, needs to be streamlined to be effective. he can't have the long times you've had so far. so from this point of view we must make the dialogue between the social partners more streamlined, more effective and i would even say more interactive. we cannot limit ourselves to large summits of many hours in a day which then do not have the effect they should have in impacting the process as a whole. the other very important issue on which we need to do more and which we have identified as a priority is the evaluation of employment and social indicators. it is certainly a step forward, a good starting point. we are now giving greater visibility to the employment and social aspects. alongside this visibility, more effective concrete actions will also be needed. similarly, we need to make a much more determined commitment to gender equality. it is clear that the role of women in the labour market is one of the major objectives that we must continue to pursue in the europe 2020 strategy after its review next spring. i would also like to refer to a letter signed by 22 ministers which stresses this issue, stresses the need for gender equality to be reflected more strongly in the revised strategy. we as the presidency have fully supported the initiative of these 22 ministers. in conclusion, mr president, because i want to leave room for the speeches, i would like to mention the subject of investment, growth, recovery, structural reforms and investment. i am absolutely convinced that the real answer to the fight against poverty, along with all the things i have just mentioned, is a new investment policy. a new investment policy which, in our view, we shall see tomorrow, and the idea of the investment plan, an idea which was the idea of the italian presidency and which president juncker has wanted to adopt and which he will present tomorrow, so i cannot comment today on a plan which will be presented tomorrow. but, i think, we wanted a fresh start, we wanted a whole new beginning. juncker has committed himself to a new start, a new beginning. we believe that the investment plan is a good start, a positive start to develop an investment policy which must be based on european policies, in particular the europe 2020 strategy, but also on national policies which must be consistent with the new choice we are making at european level, namely to do what europe has been guilty of not wanting or not being able to do in recent years. what has been lacking in recent years has been an active european policy for demand, active for growth, through investment. now we have this new priority, and this is the real answer to fighting poverty, to creating jobs: public and private investment. tomorrow we will have a debate in the chamber, in which the presidency will also take part, but this, mr president, is certainly the most concrete, most tangible and most comprehensible answer for our citizens that we as the european union can give.
member of the commission. - madam president, since the europe 2020 strategy was adopted, we have indeed been moving away from the eu’s headline employment and social targets. for instance, the number of people living in or at risk of poverty has increased by more than 6 million. the economic and financial crisis has taken its toll: social hardship and the rise in equality call into question the fairness and effectiveness of our social market economy. however, the crisis should not make us overlook long-term social structural issues. it is accepted now that more and smarter investment in jobs, growth and competitiveness is needed. for this reason, the commission will present a eur 300 billion investment plan, which should mobilise money for much-needed projects to support job creation and improve living standards. i am happy that the council has already welcomed this wholeheartedly. as regards progress towards the europe 2020 targets, the modernisation of national labour markets and social protection systems is crucial. the european semester with the country-specific recommendations is a key venue for calling on the member states to make good on their commitments and deliver on their targets. the multiannual financial framework supports this ambition. a greater share – at least 23% – of cohesion policy funding has been ring-fenced for the european social fund, of which at least 20% will be specifically allocated to promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. the globalisation fund and the fund for the most deprived can also contribute to the employment and social targets. they support workers made redundant to find jobs, and they help the most deprived maintain a level of decency. both the existence and the distribution of these financial instruments were only secured with the very outspoken support of the european parliament. the youth unemployment initiative has been frontloaded in the first two years of the programming period, and we are working with the member states to get the funding on the ground. as to the new commission, there is an explicit agreement that employment and social policies and the related indicators need to be better taken into account in the european semester. indeed, they need to be better coordinated with economic and fiscal policies. as president juncker said, social fairness is as important as the stability of the single currency and the solidity of public finances. we must – and we will – also work more closely with social partners. as to the europe 2020 strategy, the commission is analysing the results of the public consultation, and it will present its follow-up in spring 2015.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you, madam president. the eu's membership has reached an unacceptable level. and when considering youth unemployment, the consequences of the present situation should not be ignored. however, it would be a mistake to ask for the impossible, and to set unrealistic and binding targets at european level to try to solve this problem. the european people's party calls on the member countries to take the social field into account with the utmost seriousness and this should be done by identifying ambitious but realistic targets. one of the most worrying situations in many member countries is the increase in precarious work. it is important to address the abuse of these vulnerable persons. precarity is damaging the future of european citizens. it implies depriving these citizens of the peace of mind, which is their right, and increases the chance of poverty and social exclusion. the european social economy must be protected. member countries have watchtowers. care to reduce the abuse of those who are vulnerable. they must also be proactive and ambitious in implementing measures to ensure that citizens are offered work opportunities that guarantee their dignity and healthy development.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this recommendation as its aim is to increase investment in the railway infrastructure and hence it will improve interconnectivity in europe. this recommendation also emphasises the need for a more sustainable and environmentally friendly mode of transport.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this recommendation as i consider that the rail protocol is compatible with eu law and that the choice of legal basis for the proposal is correct. such an instrument is of benefit to the european rail industry, banks and governments by encouraging capital investment in the rail sector. i support the objective of the rail protocol, as it facilitates the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating strong international guarantees for the creditors. this should encourage not only capital investment in the rail sector, but also benefit the creation of a veritable lease market for mobile railway equipment throughout europe.
in writing. – according to the proposal the objective of the rail protocol is to facilitate the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee for creditors. the commission emphasises that this should encourage not only capital investment in the rail sector, but also benefit the creation of a genuine lease market for mobile railway equipment in europe. the rail protocol creates a register of international interests in railway rolling stock and is complementary to the european vehicle identification numbering system. it enables registration and search 24 hours a day using the internet. the proposal is thus closely connected to the 4th railway package, one of the aims of which is to encourage more innovation and investment in eu railways. as the proposal points out, the rail protocol is also consistent with the objective of supporting the shift to greener and more sustainable mode of transport such as rail transport. after having noted that this protocol creates guarantees for creditors, benefits the creation of a lease market and sustains a greener mode of transport i have voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. – this recommendation encourages the financing of high-value railway rolling stock, which will incite investment in the rail sector. this strategy will also include a shift towards a more sustainable and environmental friendly mode of transport. i have therefore voted in favour of this recommendation, which will facilitate the growth of railway infrastructure.
in writing. - i supported the report on the convention on international interests in mobile equipment on matters specific to railway rolling stock, because adhering to an international convention will provide strong international legal guarantees to creditors in relation with debtors in third countries, which is an important safeguard for eu producers and sellers.
in writing. — this recommendation regards the choice-of-court in civil and commercial matters, covering jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement issues. i have voted in favour as i welcome greater clarity over choice-of-court agreements.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this recommendation as it will provide the business community, a strong stakeholder for economic growth, with legal certainty on international exclusive choice of court agreements.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the european parliament should give its consent to the council decision ratifying the convention. the convention concerns choice of courts agreements in civil and commercial matters and i believe that the european union should participate in this convention after signing it in 2009.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this recommendation due to improve the facilitation of trade between the participating countries. even though mexico is the only state that has ratified this convention to date, it is expected that others will follow suit. i also welcome the greater clarity over choice-of-court agreements regarding jurisdiction and enforcement.
in writing. - i gave my consent to the council decision to ratify the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements, which concerns choice of court agreements in civil and commercial matters.
in writing. — this report emphasises the need for support for workers whose income has been diminished due to major changes in trade patterns due to globalisation. i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to support the reintegration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report confirms that 565 workers previously operating in the manufacture of transport equipment in finland will be targeted by the egf co-funded measures. personalised services for the redundant workers will include coaching and other preparatory measures, training and entrepreneurship promotion and training. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it will provide additional opportunities and support to the workers (and their families) affected by these redundancies.
in writing. – on 14 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in stx finland oy, operating in shipbuilding, due to major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. it refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 426 800 from the egf for finland. it concerns a total of 565 beneficiaries. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf, and the ep’s budgetary committee has already supported the decision with strong majority. hence i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - finland aims to use these funds to provide 634 workers affected by difficulties in the shipbuilding sector which are related to globalisation with personalised services and to promote entrepreneurship. these workers are at risk of prolonged unemployment, since most of them have a relatively poor standard of education and are in an advanced age group. i have therefore voted in favour of this report in order to reintegrate these persons affected back into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in finland, which was submitted following the dismissal of 577 workers in rauma from an enterprise operating in the shipyard industry. the egf funding will contribute to personalised services for the redundant workers, which shall include help transferring to a new job, starting their own business, as well as providing training and/or education.
in writing. — this report emphasises the need for support for workers whose income has been diminished due to major changes in trade patterns due to globalisation. i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – the redundancies of 760 workers in gad, an enterprise operating in the manufacture of food products, are linked to the global and financial economic crisis. redundant workers will be given advice and guidance by a team of expert consultants aiming for the reintegration of redundant workers in the labour market. i have therefore voted in favour of this report since the measure not only addresses loss of jobs but also reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. – on 24 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in gad société anonyme simplifiée operating in the manufacturing of food products due to the global financial and economic crisis. it refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 918 000 from the egf for france. it concerns a total of 760 beneficiaries. the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf, and the european parliament’s committee on budgets has already supported the decision with strong majority. hence i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. – this report focuses on 760 persons affected by difficulties such as unfair competition within the internal market and the absence of a decent minimum wage in the agro-agricultural industry. these funds will contribute to the implementation of personalised services for these workers, to the reconversion programmes and processes of the local economic system. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report in order to aid these affected workers in finding employment.
in writing. - i supported the report for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in france, which relates to 760 redundancies in france and will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package providing assistance for the reintegration of those redundant workers into employment.
in writing. – i have abstained from voting for or against this motion for a resolution as i would have expected the relevant committees to be given adequate time to consider such an important issue. at the same time, in view of significant doubts in relation to data retention and data transfers, issues that are closely linked with privacy rights and fundamental rights, the court’s decision would bring clarity and provide parameters within which a balance between rights and public interest is to be reached. while parliament, commission and council have the necessary authority to transact such agreements, their work is subject to the review of the court of justice.
in writing. - passenger name record (pnr) data is provided by passengers, collected by air carriers and used for their ticketing, reservation, and check-in systems. pnr data contains several kinds of information, including names, addresses, passport numbers, credit card information, information on whom one is travelling with, travel routes, seating preferences, check-in times and methods, meal preferences. the agreement with canada in question involves the canadian border services agency (bsa) requesting passenger air carriers flying into and out of canada to provide pnr data before passengers enter or leave canadian territory. whilst agreeing with the fight against terrorism and serious cross-border crime, here we are dealing with peopleʼs personal data and we need to make sure that this agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. that is why i support the decision to seek an opinion from the court of justice.
in writing. - i backed the request for asking the european court of justice for a legal opinion before voting on a planned agreement between the eu and canada on the exchange of air passenger data (pnr) in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the agreement seriously interferes with the fundamental right to privacy and the protection of personal data; therefore, before endorsing it, i would like to ensure that the agreement will by no means increase the risk for eu citizens.
in writing. — this report focuses on global development after 2015 and has many positive elements such as the fight against poverty and the protection of lgbt rights. nevertheless i could not support this report as within it there are references to the financial transaction tax and the universal access to abortion as a human right.
in writing. - i fully support the objective of this report and stress the need for a new development framework to achieve a strong, cohesive eu position, but in voting against this report i have considered the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. according to the division of competences between the eu and the member states as stated in article 5 of the treaty on european union, the eu can act in different policy areas if the content and form of the action does not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives set by the treaties. the report seeks to introduce issues related to sexual health and reproductive rights as well as issues of tax when both these competences fall within the discretion of the member states.
in writing. - the key priorities within this report are clear: sustainable development, poverty eradication and the fight against inequality are all key factors which will help towards global development in order to work towards a more developed world – a world where everyone, regardless of their geographical location, has the same chance of survival, development and quality life as anyone else. for this reason, i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution with the reservation that i disagree and do not approve the references to sexual and reproductive health and rights due to abortion and the reference in article 78 to the financial transaction tax.
in writing. – this report covers the various aspects to drive global development forward after 2015. however, i could not support a number of specific aspects of this report, namely the points dealing with the financial transaction tax and the inclusion of sexual and reproductive rights.
in writing. – i supported the report ‘the eu and the global development framework after 2015’, which i believe stands for the poorest and most vulnerable people in our society. the report calls for the adoption of a new global development framework which will help eradicate poverty and fight against all form of inequalities. the human-rights-based approach to the framework is at the heart of the report and it is a key priority for the s&d group. nevertheless, i did not support the very strong language on sexual and reproductive health and rights and on innovative sources of financing such as the financial transaction tax, therefore i voted against those parts in paragraphs 28, 58, 78 and recital o.
in writing. – i have voted for this resolution with the reservation that i disagree and do not approve the reference at article 78 to the financial transaction tax. in my view, given current circumstances, this reference is inappropriate and unnecessary.
in writing. — this resolution in its core focuses on combating unemployment, and highlights the problems youths face in entering the workforce. i have voted in favour of this resolution as it calls for integrated guidelines to tackle youth unemployment.
in writing. – poverty is an eu problem that needs effective, strong and direct action to be taken at eu level. such action must be capable of ensuring that causes and consequences of poverty are addressed also at member state level. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. – in order to ensure that our social systems are sustainable and in order to ensure that we work towards the europe 2020 targets we must ensure that our employment and social policy targets are in line and on par with our governmental economic and fiscal policies. the motion for resolution has highlighted the main issues at hand to do this – the creation of not just job growth but quality employment, the need for access to social services in order to reduce poverty, the need to fully address the issue of inequality to be able to engage and re-innovate the european work force, the direct implementation of measures to tackle poverty – especially child poverty – and the need to implement the youth guarantee, amongst others. i voted in favour of the employment committee’s resolution as i believe that these are all concrete measures that will help millions of people currently facing the reality of poverty.
in writing. - this resolution makes repeated references to rising youth unemployment and the need to address this crucial matter. the call for a specific integrated guideline on youth employment across the member states is a point i believe is very much needed in the current climate. i have thus voted in favour of this resolution.
the commission has not yet received any comments. some 13 million women in the european union have experienced physical violence and 3. 7 million women suffered sexual violence in the year before the survey was published by the fra. so no one can be tempted to suggest that violence against women is not a european problem. the psychological, emotional and physical abuse of european women is a consequence of the violence against them. but it is also a threat to the union. violence against women is a european problem. serious crime affecting all member states. consequently, we can only address this crime if we unite in one voice and one action. violence against women is widespread and, although it amounts to a violation of fundamental rights, remains systematically unreported to the authorities. a union founded on democracy and respect for the dignity of the person cannot turn a blind eye, but must join with all relevant stakeholders to fight this crime. these stakeholders may include ngos, professionals, employers, and educators, not just national authorities. until we achieve a unified european approach that ensures a high level of health protection, well-being and social cohesion, it is imperative that we use all the tools we currently have to provide immediate protection. we must seek action that will bring about a change in the culture of how men and women look at each other and a culture where violence is not accepted.
a year ago, after the tragedy near lampedusa, we agreed a resolution on immigration in the mediterranean. this document was intended to serve as a roadmap to take action on a holistic plan for immigration. we promised that the mediterranean would never again be a sea of hopelessness. referred to this morning pope. but a year later, here we are again. we need to insist on change that makes a difference. failure to do so would be an evasion of responsibility. we want better cooperation that addresses all the different aspects. only then can we address all issues holistically. we should not think of actions as a kind of checklist that we make one and then start another. we need to start them all together if we really want real, long-term solutions. and we need you, mr commissioner, and - in particular - the member states, to act. and act in a concrete way in a spirit of solidarity. and yes, if there is a need to discuss the dublin system again, let us discuss it. do not close that door, mr commissioner. let us not let another year pass and come back here regretting that nothing was done and that people continued to die. we are now working on another resolution. we can't have a repeat of a broken promise. this is what our group expects from the vote we will take in december.
i think this is an opportune moment to discuss this subject. and i say this not only because there is an urgent need for action but also because of the way things are developing in the mediterranean. we are talking about the criminal act of making thousands of euros off the misfortune of others. it is common to send people across the mediterranean in boats that are barely seaworthy, only to drown. and on the other hand, we have european citizens telling us that there are a lot of fires in the summer when the problem is at its peak, but then in the winter it seems to be all over. they tell us: there seems to be no urge to change things. citizens who are concerned about what is happening in the mediterranean, particularly in libya, where the situation is becoming more delicate every day and where the european union should play a central role. we must work together. let's implement what we've been talking about: a comprehensive policy including cooperation with third countries. a strategy that also includes areas currently in conflict such as libya and syria.
in writing. – mediterranean member states deal with a surge of illegal immigration by sea that continues to bear on their financial, social and administrative difficulties. a new european strategy must adopt a holistic approach to migration management, respecting human rights, establishing coordination among member states and with countries of origin and/or passage. the eu must play a bigger role in promoting security and create an effective political framework for comprehensive, enhanced and tailor-made dialogue and cooperation. we need to tackle causes and not only consequences. malta receives a high number of immigrants in ratio to its population, while the mediterranean serves as a vast eu border. member states such as malta do not need only financial but even operational support. proper systems must be put in place to assist migrants when they arrive, process applications faster and integrate or resettle them if they are granted asylum. the eu must offer resources and cooperation across member states, and come up with a true and real common asylum system. triton is not enough: we need missions that search and rescue but also measures that bring smugglers and traffickers to justice and collect data that would enable better and more effective actions in the future.
in writing. – greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions are a global problem but let us be honest: developed nations caused the majority of global warming by fuelling our industrial development over the centuries. it is now our role to take the lead in reversing this process. i am very proud that the eu has set the prevention of dangerous climate change as a strategic priority. in the past five years, the eu has been working hard to transform europe into a highly energy-efficient low carbon economy, while encouraging other nations and regions to do likewise. and now, we are starting to ʽsee some light at the end of the tunnelʼ. just 10 days ago, us and chinese leaders unveiled new pledges on ghg emissions. in addition, a week ago 30 nations pledged usd 9.3 billion for the green climate fund in order to help developing nations cut emissions and prepare for climate change. these latest moves send very powerful signals and give a strong boost to our efforts to secure a global deal on reducing emissions after 2020. therefore, let us set ambitious eu goals for the negotiations in lima and aim for a strong agreement in a well-framed framework, with maximum transparency.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report in view of the new supervisory task of the ecb related to prudential supervision of credit institutions with the intention to minimise the reporting burden and to ensure the same data only need to be collected once. physical and logical protection of the confidential statistical information concerned will be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is intended to minimise the reporting burden and ensure that the same data need only be collected once.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this report, which will focus on maximising the effectiveness and security of the european central bank’s data collection operations. this report discusses the exchange of data between the ecb and the relevant authorities of member states and the union. while the european central bank is responsible for the collection of data for law enforcement, government and other such authorities, in utilising the ecb in collecting statistical information we must ensure the protection of this data.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on collection of statistical information by the european central bank, which takes into account the ecb’s new supervisory tasks relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions.
in writing. — this report shows that the financial crisis highlighted the need for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the european union. regulation that ensures compliance in all 28 member states will help europe avoid another financial crisis. i have voted in favour as i support clarification of processes and responsibilities of the european central bank.
in writing. – the financial crisis highlighted the need for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the eu. supervision by the ecb is essential to safeguard financial stability in europe. thus the ecb needs clear and unequivocal authority to impose sanctions on banks of the euro area. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think it would be a step in the right direction if the ecb, as a general rule, published without undue delay its decisions on imposing sanctions and whether such decisions had been appealed or not. it further addresses deficient supervision related to competence between the ecb and national authorities on infringement initiatives.
in writing. – this report follows the recent financial crisis and notes, among other things, the need for clarity on who is responsible for infringement initiatives and for timeframes concerning administrative penalties. i have therefore chosen to vote in favour of this report, as i support this clarification of general processes and responsibilities of the european central bank.
in writing. – i abstained at the final vote on the report on reviewing powers of the ecb to impose sanctions, because the final text includes a broader derogation to the principle of transparency.
in writing. - i abstained on this vote because the publication of sanctions imposed by the ecb will be delayed ʽuntil all legal means of appeal have been exhaustedʼ. furthermore, reforms being introduced as part of the banking union need to pay more attention to the impact that the ongoing changes will have on banks’ operating costs and on banks’ propensity to lend. necessary as they are from a certain perspective, current bank regulation proposals will inevitably raise operational costs. so will the measure by which the ecb will hold new powers to impose sanctions. the measures could make banks think twice before they lend to projects that they might consider problematic under the new circumstances. so costs to lenders could increase even as the latter will find it more difficult than before to raise project funds. this is hardly the time to raise lending costs or to promote more risk averseness in the banking system. a balance must be kept between the need for banking institutions to be run prudently and transparently, and that other need for banks to respond quickly and efficiently to project proposals. is this balance being reached at european level? the question remains open.
in writing. — i support this resolution as it supports green initiatives and aims at fighting global warming. this resolution emphasises that the countries that have already committed to an emission reduction should continue to make deeper emission cuts, and that others should also set emissions caps and reduce greenhouse gases’ intensity.
in writing. – climate change affects not only health but also every aspect of our lifestyle. the resolution identifies a number of actions that would help ensure a better approach towards addressing climate change. i voted in favour of this resolution which is a step towards keeping the eu in a leading position on climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that we need to ensure that the cop 20 in lima makes significant progress on setting out the main elements of the 2015 global climate agreement and increasing our global ambition until 2020 to make sure that we remain within the ʽbelow 2°cʼ objective. we need immediate action to solve a problem which has a vast impact.
in writing. – i support this resolution and voted in favour of it because it highlights the need for europe to push for greater market penetration of environmentally friendly technologies in several fields. europe has the capability to combat climate change in a high-tech manner and this should be supported by a legal framework. the resolution also acknowledges the complex relationship between developing countries and climate change. it also rightly points out that these developing countries have the least capacity to adapt to the challenges of climate change and will likely be amongst the worst affected. we are already seeing the effects of climate change further harming the livelihoods of the citizens of developing countries and the eu can help alleviate these pressures through technology transfers and capacity building.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, honourable members, let me thank you for this debate. i was surprised when i heard that many of you were thanking me – that is part of my responsibility and my role to be here. it is also useful for me being here and listening to this debate, but i will get to our institutional and political relationship at the end, when i will maybe touch upon the way forward, as some of you have rightly mentioned the need for joint work in the future. let me start by saying very sincerely and from my heart that this debate this afternoon shows not only that this is, as some of you mentioned, one of the most difficult issues on foreign policy in europe – i am afraid we might have many of those – but it is definitely not the easiest one to start with. however, on the other side, let me very frankly say that this debate this afternoon mirrors the debate that is there in the region, and this is worrying to me because i think that this debate this afternoon shows that our frustration, and even our sense of desperation, is deep, and that we risk being trapped in the false illusion of us needing to take one side. we could not make a worse mistake than this. you will never convince me – and i am sure that the majority of you in this house do not want to convince me – that you can be pro-israeli without also being pro-palestinian and that you can be pro-palestinian without being pro-israeli. the best way of helping the israeli people is to build a palestinian state, and the best way of helping the palestinian people is to secure israel’s security. we have the responsibility to facilitate the dialogue between two camps, and in the two camps to strengthen those that want dialogue and want and understand that they have to live together, share a land and share an interest. if we lose lucidity, if we lose our capacity not to be trapped within the conflict ourselves, we lose our possibility to play this role – and there are not many international actors that are able to play this role, so we are bearing with us a responsibility. in this conflict there are two things that are dangerous. the first, as someone said, is that it has gone on for too many decades. when i was born this conflict had already started. we are getting used to it, and this is dangerous. the second element that is worrying and is making things very complicated is that there is too much history and too little future in the debate. barbara spinelli was saying that we in europe are somehow responsible. we bear a historical responsibility as europeans for part of the roots of this debate, and so here it comes: a debate among us that mirrors the historical debate, sometimes going back hundreds of years, concerning how to get out of this trap. i will always remember one of the best conversations i had in the region, and that was not with politician but with a novelist, who told me that we are trapped in a bubble. we need someone from the outside to burst the bubble and let us out. and this is our role. this can be our role if we keep the awareness of the responsibility that we bear. it is not only a historical responsibility but, to me, it is a responsibility for the future. so i am – and i will always be – a friend of israel and a friend of palestine and will always work to show that this is the only way to be friends of both and of each of them. i would really like us to manage to develop this awareness together, because this is what the israelis and the palestinians need in order for us to convince them and to help them, as they are not friends. it is difficult, but at least it makes it possible for them to share their land and their future. what is our role? it is not interference. i heard someone say that we should not interfere and that it is not for the european union to do anything about this. this is either for the member states or we should leave them alone. our role is also to take care of our neighbourhood, our region. these are our neighbours – for many of our member states, many other countries and for us. it is our sea – the mediterranean; the middle east is close, and our relations with both the palestinians, the israelis and many of the countries that are concerned by the conflict are so strong that this is our business. definitely so. so it is not a matter of interference but one of playing our role in a responsible and effective way. i heard many of you referring to the fact that we have to discuss the recognition of the state and discuss the negotiations. still i feel that many of you might share my vision, which is that neither the recognition of the state nor even the negotiations are goals in themselves. the goal is having a palestinian state in place and having israel living next to it. some of you have said that i do not have an answer, and maybe we all, as an international community, still do not have a complete answer about what are the right steps to take and in what order. i think the debate this afternoon reflects this very well – this questioning ourselves. what is the right order in which to take our steps? what is clear in my mind is that we cannot just sit and wait, because sitting and waiting is not keeping the status quo. sitting and waiting is bringing us to the point where we close the doors to further negotiations and to the peace process. it is not going anywhere if we just do not do anything. it is getting worse and worse. what are the steps? in my opinion, and from what i have heard today, i see as an element of my future work to strengthen inside the two camps the political leaders and the communities – not only the political leaderships but also the communities, because society has a role to play here – that are committed and that are capable of delivering peace and working on peace. elmar brok mentioned the fact that not everyone – in israel or in palestine – wanted two states. we have to be aware of that, because more and more people, both on the palestinian side and on the israeli side, are talking about a one-state solution. we have to be aware of that. it has not come out here but it is coming out there. it might not be the case that our vision for the future will stay the same for decades. it is deteriorating for us as well. so first, find better ways to support those internally in the two camps that are committed and help them show their own public opinion that this path is delivering for their own public opinion. this is the big question mark that we have to find an answer to. what is the best way to strengthen and make credible the people who on both sides still believe that peace is possible there? second, i believe, as some of you have recalled, that we have to work with the region. this sounds familiar today; it was not as normal only a few years ago, and that is why the peace initiative in 2002 did not go far. now this is something we all agree on; we need to work with the countries and the region. some of you, including ms alliot-marie, have invited me and others to come back here with a detailed plan or even set it out today. i think it would probably not be serious enough from my side after three weeks in office to come to this chamber and give you my detailed plan for peace in the middle east. you would not believe me, and you would be right. what i can share with you today is the main political elements of the efforts that the european union is making, which are the ones that i described in the beginning and some of those that i am underlining now, and a road map – although a road map with the middle east is not really working – but a plan, a way, steps that we can work on, and the commitment to come back here in this chamber and update you on the steps taken, given the fact that i believe the european union has a role to play – but not alone. because we have to be aware of the fact that, yes, we do have a role to play without necessarily sitting and waiting for others to call us to a table. we can initiate processes but we need to work with those international actors, starting with the united states and the arab countries and the un and the un security council, to work together to restart a process. and i would mention here a country that no one in this room mentioned, but it is there in the un security council and in the quartet: russia. not for the sake of negotiations; this is another trap we have to escape. negotiations are something good, because while we have a process going on, violence is less likely to happen. but i believe that we also run the risk of calling for negotiations again for the sake of the process, and this is eroding the credibility of the process itself. we need the process to bring a result, especially on the palestinian side – but also on the israeli side. the criticism about the process and the talks is: yes, but what does it bring to our people? we need to make sure that the process and the talks deliver something very concrete for both parts, not in the far future but immediately. in this framework we can discuss further, and we will do it. for sure you will do it here in this chamber. we will do it also with the member states and we will do it also with our partners internationally, because i believe that all our diplomatic efforts need to be made together with the others. i will mention another point that was raised by someone. we have two other challenges that are really european ones. one is anti-semitism. i know you are working on that already, but i would be ready to work with you on that because i think we have a major challenge there that puts at risk our own sense of communities in europe. and we have a parallel risk, which is that of islamophobia, when we tend to associate in our societies islam and terrorism or arab societies and terrorism. we have to decouple the religious element and the political element, not only in the middle east but also in europe, and i think here we have a cultural and not only a political challenge that we could face. i know very well that, as the european parliament is for me a central body of the european institutions, it also has its autonomy and i would respect it, so my attitude today and for tomorrow and for the next five years, as we share the period of mandates, is and will always be to share, to listen, to decide together, if not officially politically, but to respect your autonomy. the decision whether to take a vote on the resolution or not is your decision; it is not my decision and can never be my decision. i will always respect your decisions; i will always respect the outcome of your decisions and try to work together hand in hand. as someone was saying, i will also try to be as innovative as possible and hope that you can help me in this. i would invite you to use your power – which is not a little one, it is a big one – to support and shape this role of the european union in the middle east. i believe it is up to you to work on a united, strong and useful resolution or decision. (murmurs of disagreement)i am sorry; i know that it is boring. but i think that you can leave if you are too bored. i think this would not just be a reflection of your debate; this could be a useful political tool for the european union. so be aware of the fact that this is going to be, as many of you have mentioned, a real contribution to the role and the work that the european union can do in the middle east. do not waste it. use it carefully, wisely, but use it in a way that can work on the results that we need. we need symbols; sometimes symbols are part of the steps, but we need to concentrate on what can make the click in the process and restart it again. the lack of hope and the sense of desperation that are not only there in gaza, though mainly in gaza, but also in tel aviv and jerusalem are waiting for a push from our side: someone to burst the bubble and let the desperation out and some hope and future in. (applause)
in writing. – those of us who are equally the friends of jews and palestinians must again today condemn the recent attacks on israeli churchgoers and balance this with disapproval of israeli policies towards the palestinians. our declarations have little to no impact. outsiders – americans, russians, jihadists, europeans – cannot make peace happen in israel and palestine. only, the israelis and palestinians can do it. yet, developments in the area are having a powerful impact on the world we live in. on the one hand: despair and deep rage; on the other: a determination to maintain at all costs full control over palestine. if peace is to be ever achieved, the only way out is for the dominant side to make concessions on major make-or-break issues, within well-defined limits. it needs to show good faith in doing so. the dominant side in palestine is the israeli government. the make-or-break issue now is the spread of jewish settlements with the full connivance of the government. unfortunately, since the murder of yitzhak rabin, successive israeli governments have demonstrated neither political will nor good faith in dealing with make-or-break issues. so unless this changes, both sides are condemned to keep living their epiphany of hate and despair.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i would like to start by remembering that today in this hemicycle the sakharov prize was given to a man who is fighting for freedom of thought, democracy and peace in his country just the day after the international day against violence towards women. last year’s prize went to malala yousafzai, who this year won the nobel peace prize together with kailash satyarthi, who worked on the right to education and children’s rights. i believe that this means parliament is keeping a very open and effective eye on the protection and promotion of human rights. last week we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child, and i welcome the unprecedented global support for the convention. you know that the european union has a treaty objective to promote the protection of the rights of the child. the un convention on the rights of the child guides the eu at the moment throughout its actions in realising the rights of the child, as included in the charter of fundamental rights. you know too that it is the most ratified human rights convention worldwide. all the european union member states have ratified it, which means that, indirectly, the rights are binding not just for the member states but for the action of the european union as such. let me refer here to a letter that i have received from some members of this parliament asking for a ratification of the convention by the european union. that would turn respect for the rights of the child from an objective to a legal obligation. let me say at the outset that i am ready to work with commissioner jourová to look at and examine the possibilities of proceeding in this direction and explore them. let me also say that i very much welcome parliament’s initiative to adopt a resolution on this issue, and i appreciate the efforts of the italian presidency to have the council adopt conclusions on the promotion and protection of children’s rights in early december. within the european union we have done a lot. i am sure that you are all aware of the progress that has been made on internal policies in this area. but i know very well that under my responsibility lie, in particular, the steps that we still need to take on implementation and the work that we can do outside the european union, especially when we see how many children in the world are victims of violence, war and rights violations, how many children are mostly affected by poverty, and how many children flee from their countries for different reasons. i really believe that we have a responsibility to take in our external action. i was looking at the figures, and i was satisfied to see that today, children’s rights are a priority in 86 of the eu delegations in the world and 116 have prioritised gender-related issues. we also know very well that the two elements are sometimes are interlinked, especially in the work that we do around the world. we have been working very closely with unicef, especially in developing a child rights toolkit which, to mark the 25th anniversary of the un convention, all the eu delegations, together with unicef country offices, presented around the world last week. in the spirit of the same cooperation we have actively supported the un campaign ‘children, not soldiers’, jointly initiated by the un special representative of the secretary-general for children and armed conflict, and unicef. more than 108 000 children affected by armed conflict have already benefited from the eu decision in late 2012 to use the nobel peace prize to assist children in conflict situations. this eu children of peace initiative has been turned into a multiannual assisted programme on education in emergencies with more than eur 12 million committed since 2012. on child labour, it is encouraging to me – even if only partially – that, according to the international labour organisation (ilo), the global number of children in labour has declined in the last 14 years. however, 85 million child labourers aged from 5 to 17 years old are involved in hazardous work, which is one of the worst forms of child labour. we are using our human rights dialogues to encourage countries to sign, ratify and implement – mainly implement – the ilo convention 182 on the worst forms of child labour. let me also refer to the need that we have to make targeted efforts to protect children from female genital mutilation and early and forced marriage. again here, i refer to what happens inside the european union and globally, because we tend too often to think that these are problems that happen only far away from us, while we are also responsible for what happens within our european union. in july there was an important girls’ summit in london, where the eu announced its commitment to allocate more than eur 100 million for the next seven years to gender equality and children’s well-being. i am personally committed to sticking to that engagement by the european union and mainly to working on the follow-up to this commitment. we will continue to work in close relation with the un: with the un system, with the un special representatives and envoys, and with other organisations like the council of europe. but let me stress mostly the work we can do with civil society organisations, with ngos, which i value very much as a great possibility for partnership for fruitful cooperation, in particular as we work towards one of the main challenges that we will have for 2015, which is the work on the post-2015 development agenda. it is important that children’s rights are completely and fully included in that agenda and that we find active and effective ways of working on that. i will close here, because i know that the president is worried about the fact that we are running very late. i thank you very much for this initiative. i believe it is extremely important as a resolution. i will conclude by mentioning a paragraph in the resolution, if you will allow me. it is paragraph 28 that calls on the vice-president/high representative – again i would invite you, if possible, to refer to my title as it is referred to in the treaties, i.e. high representative/vice-president; nothing personal, nothing political (i will be always be sitting on this side of the hemicycle; i am, and i will be, vice-president of the commission, but we have to refer to the treaties in the right way) – anyway, it calls on me to prioritise children’s rights in all eu external action so as to ensure the effective mainstreaming of children’s rights, including in the context of human rights dialogues, trade agreements, the accession process and the european neighbourhood policy and in relations with the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, in particular countries in conflict. i am fully committed to doing that and extremely happy that you asked me to commit to that, because for me, cooperation with you in this field, together with the partners i mentioned, is going to be extremely helpful. i look forward to effective and useful work on this topic in the near future.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, high representative/vice-president, it is a great pleasure for me to present this motion almost 25 years after the signing of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. i am speaking here as one of the instigators of this resolution, together with anna maria corazza bildt. this proposal is being put forward to mark this anniversary with a clear statement with a series of concrete recommendations to improve the rights of all children. we have many challenges to face because children's rights continue to be violated in many parts of the world, including in the european union. the main aim of the resolution is to address these issues and to ask the european commission to present a strategy for the rights of the child, including a concrete action plan for the next five years. we also need to be clear and speak out when the member states of the european union fail to transpose basic legislation protecting the rights and dignity of children. malta is one of the member states facing proceedings for not yet implementing the child abuse directive. it is truly shameful that there are still countries in the european union that are so far behind on something so fundamental. i call on all member states to implement the laws they have agreed on and to protect the rights of children everywhere. finally, mr president, i would like to thank all the groups and members for the draft resolution and for their support. it was a process really built on cooperation between all the groups because from here we can send a strong message, and so we should all join together in this effort and the message we will send.
mr president, children's rights are being violated in many countries of the world. now, as we speak, there are children being abused and deprived of basic rights, subject to murder, trafficking, sexual abuse, discrimination, and exploitation of all kinds. right now, as we speak, 57 million children are deprived of the basic right to education. i therefore believe that we must work harder to make the vision of the convention on the rights of the child a reality. we must fight all forms of violence against children, including online violence, cyberbullying, and all physical and psychological violence, to ensure that these children truly enjoy their childhood. now is the time for political powers to rise up and work for a decent future for our children. i am asking the commission and the high representative to sign the united nations convention, on behalf of the european union, so that there is a strong document and voice, which is a guide for every man, for every nation. children are the future. but we do not forget that they are also the present that we should cherish and care for. and so we need to act now.
mr president, children are our future and our present. individuals with inherent rights and dignity. investing in children means investing in infrastructure that ensures intellectual, psychological and emotional development in a holistic way. this requires a comprehensive and strategic policy. investment in social infrastructure should ensure that europe has a system that identifies children at risk early and provides them with the necessary services. the best interests of the child remain a myth until we hurt all relevant stakeholders, social welfare officers, police, legislators, judges and educators. a vision in which children are individuals with rights even in their participation in the family. in some member states it requires legislative and social changes and the union should be the catalyst for bringing about this change. children have a voice and their best interests require that any judicial decision affecting them should take their opinion into account, especially in family proceedings with a cross-border element. not all member states recognise this equally, and often the voice of the child is not even heard. this is not acceptable. children with mental health difficulties are exposed to a higher level of abuse. the union shall ensure that they receive the highest standard of care in facilities which respect their dignity and that their educational and social development is facilitated. for children in care the union's first priority should be to facilitate and support structures that strengthen family-based care by investing in social welfare services for families in difficulty. where family-based care is not possible we should ensure that the alternative care measure provides the highest level of care that ensures the full development of the child. i call on the maltese government to show a genuine and real commitment to children by passing a law that recognises and protects children's rights, providing sufficient funds to social institutions that offer shelter to these children in danger.
mr president, mr commissioner, in his speech to this house, his holiness the pope said this: it is unacceptable that millions of people should starve to death while we throw so much food off our tables! the i have no doubt that everyone agrees with such a statement, but what are we going to do to prevent it? two billion people in the world suffer from hidden hunger; millions of children suffer from extreme hunger leading to death. more than ever before, we must be aware that something needs to be done on a global scale to ensure that children have not only enough to eat but a balanced diet. there are also pregnant women, suffering from starvation, with the severe, and permanent, consequences it brings on their babies. so we must also focus on these women and on babies especially in the first 1 000 days when their development is so crucial. one solution to this is education. education provides important employment and economic growth potential to combat hunger and poverty, to achieve sustainable development and social improvement. food and nutrition education should be an integral part of formal education, so as to raise a healthy generation capable of living in dignity. an investment in this sense is an investment in the future; investment in people able to find work to support themselves and their families. i would therefore like to ask the commission: what plans are there to help developing countries, to educate women and children so that they can escape the destructive bonds of hunger and poverty?
in writing. - the commission should be allowed to do its job and not be made a player in a partisan political game. furthermore, one cannot forget that tax issues are exclusively within the competence of the member states.
in writing. - i voted against this motion because the claims have already been addressed by the commission. it is a thinly veiled attempt by euro-sceptics to discredit and weaken the commission and the eu. i strongly support the establishment of new initiatives for more transparency in regards to member states’ tax regimes and look forward to the commission’s proposals on this issue.
in writing. – i voted against the motion of censure on the commission.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as it will allow the commission greater flexibility and efficiency when assisting banks in the euro area. taxpayers will therefore be spared unnecessary expenses should banks in their member states encounter any difficulties.
in writing. - cohesion policy represents the main eu-wide investment policy in the real economy as it forms a major part of the eu strategy to redress regional imbalances and inequalities. in most member states it forms the principle source of public investment. for this reason member states have to show responsibility and do their utmost to speed up the adoption of maximum operational programmes in 2014. in the light of the delay in payments at the start of the implementation of the new operational programmes, the commission must put forward solutions for limiting the damage as far as possible. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion because of the serious need to begin the implementation of the cohesion policy. the delay is impeding national, regional and local authorities’ capacity to strategise the effective use of public expenditure intended to boost growth in the eu. since the cohesion policy and the funds allocated to it are the main investment tool of the eu, it is crucial that cohesion policy moves forward in order to begin delivering the europe 2020 goals.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on delays in the start-up of cohesion policy for 2014-2020 calling for swifter adoption of operational programmes for the structural funds 2014-2020. the resolution calls on the commission to ‘show responsibility’ and do all it can to ensure that as many programmes as possible are ‘ready for adoption’ by the end of 2014.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls for a more rigorous and comprehensive internal assessment by ensuring that environmental, social, economic and administrative aspects are assessed equally. it is also ensured that all relevant stakeholders are consulted in the early stages of the internal assessment and that their opinions are taken into consideration.
in writing. – i support the resolution on the commission’s impact assessment guidelines calling for more stringent impact assessments before eu legislation is proposed. nevertheless this should not lead to deregulation and a lowering of protection for eu citizens. the impact assessments should have more involvement by industry stakeholders and consultation with these stakeholders should take place at an earlier stage in the drafting process. last but not least, the commission must ensure that economic, social, administrative and environmental aspects are assessed in equal depth.
in writing. - children are our future and our present - individuals in their own right with inherent dignity. infrastructure must secure their intellectual, psychological and emotional development holistically. children have a voice and judicial decisions that affect them must take it into consideration, particularly in family disputes with cross-border elements. not all member states recognize this in an equal manner and often children’s voices are the least heard. this is unacceptable. the union must ensure that children with mental health issues receive the best standard of mental health care within health facilities that respect their dignity, and that their educational and social development is facilitated rather than further hampered. for children in care the first priority is to facilitate and support structures that strengthen family-based care. where family based care is not possible we must ensure that alternative care facilities provide a high standard of care ensuring their full development. my own country, malta, must show a true commitment by enacting child rights legislation, providing adequate funding to social welfare institutions in which children at risk find solace, better facilitating family-based care and ensuring that children with mental health difficulties are provided with the best care. i voted in favour.
in writing. - as one of the initiators of this report, i am proud to have voted in favour of this resolution. it is essential that the principle of the best interests of the child is respected in all legislation at both the eu and national level. it is time for the un convention on the rights of the child to be fully implemented across the eu member states. it is our hope that the commission will now see the need for a child rights strategy, inclusive of a concrete action plan for the next five years.
in writing. – twenty-five years after signing the convention, children’s rights continue to be dishonoured in many parts of the world and millions of children around the world are still victims of cyberbullying, trafficking, sexual exploitation, social exclusion and discrimination among many other abuses. much more needs to be done to address children’s needs and to make the vision of the convention a reality for all children around the world. therefore i fully support the parliament resolution on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. – the digital single market must be one that finds a proportionate balance between the benefits it provides to commercial activities as well as to consumers. no-one must be left out from enjoying the benefits of the digital era. while recognising the investment of private industry in providing such services, net neutrality is to be promoted and services must ensure consumer protection within the digital single market. furthermore, roaming charges must be eliminated as it is unacceptable in a union of free movement to retain extra charges for persons travelling within the eu.
in writing. – i have signed and backed this resolution to protect consumer rights in the digital market, to promote the further development of the european digital single market, and to encourage fair competition by having a more just and discrimination-free digital single market creating more competition-friendly conditions.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because of the need for the council to open negotiations with the parliament on the proposal for a regulation concerning the european single market for electronic communications and to achieve a connected continent. ever since i was elected in 2013, i have consistently called for mobile phone roaming charges in europe to end. there is absolutely no justification for consumers to face huge bills just because they used their phone while traveling in the eu. the end of roaming must become one of the cornerstones of a true european digital single market. the resolution also highlights the importance of all legislation regarding the digital single market complying with the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. – i backed the parliament resolution on the digital single market, which aims at protecting consumer rights in the digital market. in particular, it seeks to encourage fair competition in this market and as a socialist and democrat i agree with the s&d calling for a more just and discrimination-free digital single market and the creation of more competition-friendly conditions. all internet users should have the option of choosing between competitors whose services could potentially be even better in the future.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as it seeks to bring about more effective action towards eliminating child under-nutrition in developing countries. three key tools towards this goal are shaping our education, health and economic policies justly.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because of the importance of safeguarding the lives and well-being of children. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to include the importance of ensuring food security in their development policies and utilising a holistic approach from the local to the global level. in my view this will offer the best chance of effectively tackling under-nutrition and malnutrition.
in writing. – two billion people globally are suffering from ‘hidden hunger’ and millions of children are still suffering from severe acute malnutrition, which is the biggest contributor to child mortality. more than ever, we need to raise global awareness and to create an enabling environment in which children’s access to adequate food can be secured. therefore i fully support the parliament resolution on child undernutrition, which is an important initiative sending out a very strong political message to the international community and public opinion.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. demographic, socioeconomic and even climate change are all real challenges for the sustainable development of mediterranean countries, but not only. they are also a challenge for the european union as a whole. and this is the background that has led to the need for a long-term partnership between the european union and other mediterranean countries on specific issues, including through prima - the partnership on research and innovation in the mediterranean. in today's reality, a research and innovation partnership can serve as a bridge between the european union and the countries of the southern mediterranean while promoting political stability and sustainable economic development, along with the creation of much-needed new jobs in the region. in this context, i believe that we need an integrated response from the european union. the european commission shall submit a legislative proposal by applying article 185 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. and i say this more and more now that we have the political commitment of the greek presidency and also the italian presidency, where both have emphasised the need and importance of euro-mediterranean cooperation in research and innovation and reaffirmed the thematic priorities of food and water. the fact that the participating member states together with the other mediterranean countries have recently expressed their financial commitment shows the interest. my home country, malta, is one of these countries and is actively involved in this process. a key question remains which i hope the commission will answer: is the commission prepared to use its right of initiative and propose the financing of programmes between different member states and other mediterranean countries? is there such an interest? i hope that the commission will understand that it is time to proceed with this initiative and to provide the necessary funds for a research and innovation partnership in the mediterranean.
mr president, the six-pack and two-pack arrangements are designed to ensure that the euro area guidelines are being respected. they provide a measurable method of measuring the financial and economic results achieved. however, the euro project still lacks a single, unified and central directive function. we all therefore ask ourselves how strong the insurance we are given can be. because at the heart of the euro project today, political rather than economic factors still predominate. they stem from the huge capital that was spent to build the project. they are also factors that depend on the multilateral clashes that occur between the main project participants and react to the various national interests that are placed far apart from each other. the positive superstructure incorporated into the project.... the commission has also been working with the european parliament and the council to develop a common approach to the problem of the environment. perhaps, too, you are facing the symptoms and not the real causes that explain how the euro system operates. in order for this operation to change and become transparent, in the current profile of the area, a strong move towards a federal political structure must take place, which seems politically very difficult. so, while the six-pack and the two-pack and the other tools are in operation, a very simple question will remain: are these mechanisms, which are at all levels being applied to different national economies, responding to the survival and growth interests of the euro area as a whole? or do they reflect more the national interest of each member state? it is not possible to answer this question unambiguously. this impossibility reflects a deep and systemic flaw in the objectives of the current surveillance and control mechanisms. i am therefore very much afraid that the economic governance of the euro area will remain for the foreseeable future... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. ‒ the responsibilities of the european ombudsman are considerable. it is by means of the european ombudsman that european citizens are able to gain redress when an instance of maladministration occurs in an institution, body, office or agency of the european union. emily o’reilly, who has been nominated to stand for re-election, has already presented her priorities in a hearing organised by the committee on petitions. i voted in favour of her election as she has presented a very effective strategy to combine three objectives – ensure relevance, increase visibility and achieve a greater impact. this will be attained through the introduction of a modern complaint management system and greater use of the own-initiative power of the ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 on assistance to the commission and cooperation by the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to food, as directive 93/5/eec has become obsolete and should be replaced. this is being done in the spirit of achieving a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for business, workers and citizens and thus supporting growth and jobs.
in writing. – in the context of the on-going regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) launched in 2012 to ensure a simple, clear and predictable regulatory framework, it is proposed to repeal directive 93/5/eec on assistance to the commission and cooperation by the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to food. the aim of this directive initially was to ensure the smooth running of the scientific committee on food by promoting scientific support from the member states and organising cooperation with the relevant national bodies on scientific issues regarding the safety of food. in 2002, however, the scientific tasks entrusted to the scientific committee on food were taken over by the european food safety authority (efsa) and decision 97/579/ec establishing the scientific committee on food was repealed. directive 93/5/eec has thus become obsolete. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of council directive 93/5/eec was to ensure the smooth running of the scientific committee for food by means of promoting the scientific support from the eu member states and by also coordinating cooperation with all the relevant national bodies on scientific issues relating to the safety of foodstuffs. this directive has however become obsolete since the tasks entrusted to the scientific committee on food have been taken over by the scientific committees and panels within the european food safety authority (efsa). efsa has also taken over the tasks related to the promotion of scientific cooperation with the eu member states and relevant national bodies operating in the fields falling within efsa’s mission. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which proposes to repeal directive 93/5/eec on assistance to the commission and cooperation by the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to food. the ongoing regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) was established in 2012 in order to ensure a simple, clear and predictable framework. that is why i have voted in favour, to repeal obsolete legislation.
in writing. ‒ accession of the european union (eu) to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) will enable the eu to be adequately represented at cites meetings and to play a full role in the work of the convention in line with the treaties and established practices for external representation. the commission will be enabled to lead negations on behalf of the eu and thus serve as a catalyst in achieving a compromise between member states. rights and obligations of member states under cites will not be affected by the accession of the eu. the move will render the legal status of the eu in cites more transparent. accession of the eu to cites is a logical and necessary step to ensure that the eu is fully able to pursue its objectives under its environmental policy. eu accession to cites will both reflect the current practice and streamline it. i have thus voted in favour of the accession of the eu to cites.
in writing. – the report gives its consent to the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). the convention is a major international instrument aiming at protecting endangered species of fauna and flora through controls on international trade in specimens of those species and ensures that this trade does not threaten their survival. all import, export, re-export and introduction from the sea of species covered by the convention has to be authorised through a licensing system. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ due to the cross-border nature of the trade in endangered plant and animal species, a truly international effort is required to put an end to this illicit activity. therefore i voted in favour of this recommendation as it would bind the eu and all its member states to implement and enforce the cites convention.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of eu accession to cites (the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora) with a view to promoting the implementation and enforcement of cites.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco as this respects the treaty on the functioning of the european union and strengthen the ties of the european community with morocco.
in writing. – morocco has know-how in space technology and applications. it would like to develop the use of satellite radio-navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region (western mediterranean and west africa), focusing on applications specific to this region. morocco, being a country that is part of the european neighbourhood, is entitled to association to the new framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020). i am in favour of this report giving its consent to conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because of the years of industrial cooperation between moroccan and european firms in the space sector. it is now time to further this relationship and cooperation in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the use of satellite radio-navigation to be developed on moroccoʼs territory and in the surrounding region: the western mediterranean and west africa. being a country that is a part of the european neighbourhood, morocco is entitled to association to the new framework programme for research and innovation, horizon 2020. moreover, morocco has concluded an agreement on scientific and technical cooperation with the eu; this provides morocco with good potential to contribute to gnss-related research in the context of the eu research and innovation programmes.
in writing. ‒ the initiative of renewing the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine will allow both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest. the agreement is based on the right principles, including mutual benefit, non-discrimination and protection of intellectual property. the renewing of this agreement will allow for increased scientific knowledge leading to market access opportunities and is thus being done in the best interests of the scientific communities, industry and citizens.
in writing. – this initiative will allow the eu and ukraine to improve and intensify cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest and will allow further exchange of specific knowledge know-how to the benefit of the scientific communities, industry and the citizens. i voted in favour of the extension of this already existing agreement, to increase scientific knowledge and enhance new market access opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology with ukraine will facilitate the plans to develop a ‘common knowledge and innovation space’ in the eastern partnership region of the european neighbourhood and to help it move forward. increased eu cooperation with ukraine will allow for the synchronisation of research priorities and information-sharing in the scientific and technologic sectors. this is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i support the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology with ukraine since the current agreement expired on 7 november 2014. this agreement will allow both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest, and will allow further exchange of specific knowledge and a transfer of know-how to the benefit of the scientific communities, industry and the citizens.
in writing. ‒ the proposed agreements make the republic of croatia a contracting party to the eea agreement. the protocol includes croatia in the norwegian financial mechanism. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and the three members of the european free trade association – iceland, liechtenstein and norway – in a single market. it provides for the inclusion of eu legislation covering the four freedoms throughout all the eea states. in addition, the agreement guarantees equal rights and obligations within the internal market for citizens and economic operators in the eea. the participation of croatia in the european economic area is a natural consequence of its eu accession, therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. – the european economic area agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation covering the four freedoms (the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) throughout all the eea states. in addition, the agreement covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, environment and tourism. i voted in favour of this report to support the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the eea, to finally take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ participation in the european economic area (eea) is one of the major advantages of eu membership and it is time for croatia and its citizens to enjoy the four freedoms that the eea agreement provides. therefore, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of croatia’s participation in the european economic area and the related protocol, taking into account croatia’s accession to the european union. the eea brings together the eu member states and three members of efta – iceland, liechtenstein and norway – in a single market.
in writing. ‒ the ‘dock dues’ tax is an indirect tax applied to deliveries and exports of goods in the french outermost regions. the purpose is to authorise france to apply exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax for certain products produced locally in the french outermost regions of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, mayotte and réunion, and to establish a new legal framework for the dock dues from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, by determining the products to which tax exemptions and reductions may be applied. as this, in particular, might simplify the obligations of small enterprises i voted in favour.
in writing. – i agree with the objective of this proposal to authorise france to apply exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax for certain products. the purpose of the tax differentials is to offset the handicaps affecting these outermost regions, avoiding the increase of production costs and the prices of products produced locally. thus i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because of the necessity to ensure that all citizens and regions of the eu are granted the best possible chance to weather the ongoing economic downturn and due to the importance of parliament’s continued participation and consultation in matters such as this.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which calls to authorise france to apply exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax for certain products produced locally in the french outermost regions. the purpose of these tax differentials is to offset the handicaps affecting the outermost regions, which increase production costs and therefore the cost price of products produced locally. this proposal will establish the legal framework for the dock dues from 1 january 2015 to december 2020
in writing. ‒ the redundancies of 608 workers in whirlpool europe s.r.l., an enterprise operating in the manufacture of electrical equipment, five providers and downstream producers, are linked to the global and financial economic crisis and the resultant drop in sales of durable goods including domestic appliances. redundant workers will be given personalised services which will include information sessions, counselling and guidance, general training and accompaniment towards entrepreneurship aiming at the reintegration of redundant workers in the labour market. i have therefore voted in favour of this report since the measure not only addresses loss of jobs but also reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of all four applications for eur 35.5 million in total in eu aid to help find and create new jobs for workers made redundant by air france, fiat auto poland, whirlpool and a greek retailer. the european globalisation adjustment fund aid application in the case of whirlpool will support 608 workers and their search for jobs with over eur 1.8 million.
in writing. ‒ this report notes that 608 workers in italy have been made redundant because of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the financial and economic crisis caused a significant decline in household consumption in italy. this has further aggravated the unemployment situation in the province of trento, where the unemployment rate has more than doubled since the beginning of the crisis. i have therefore voted in favour of this report, which will aid affected workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund in italy in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant at whirlpool europe s.r.l operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 27 (manufacturing of electrical equipment), and at five providers and downstream producers, due to the global financial and economic crisis
in writing. ‒ the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to support the reintegration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report confirms that 777 of 1 079 workers previously operating in the automotive industry in poland will be targeted by the egf co-funded measures. personalised services for workers will include entrepreneurial training, internships and training scholarships. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it will provide additional opportunities and support to the workers (and their families) affected by these redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of all four applications for eur 35.5 million in eu aid to help find and create new jobs for workers made redundant by air france, fiat auto poland, whirlpool and a greek retailer. the european globalisation adjustment fund aid application in the case of fiat, its 21 suppliers and downstream producers will provide support for 777 workers with over eur 1.2 million.
in writing. ‒ this report outlines the european automotive industry losses in market share since 2007, with a drop of almost a third over the same period at the national level in poland. with this funding, the reintegration of redundant workers into employment will be helped. i have therefore voted in favour of this report, which will promote entrepreneurship and help the reintegration of workers back into the workforce.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in poland in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in fiat auto poland s.a.’s production plant at tychy, located in the region of slaskie, poland, due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the redundancies of 551 workers in odyssefs fokas s.a., an enterprise operating in the retail trade, five providers and downstream producers, are linked to the decrease of available household income, rising unemployment and the drastic reduction of loans to enterprises and individuals due to lack of cash in the greek banks. redundant workers will be given personalised services which will include occupational guidance, training, retraining, contributions to business start-ups, job search allowances and training allowances. i have therefore voted in favour of this report since the measure not only addresses loss of jobs but also reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of all four applications for eur 35.5 million in eu aid to help find and create new jobs for workers made redundant by air france, fiat auto poland, whirlpool and a greek retailer. the european globalisation adjustment fund aid application in the case of odyssefs fokas will support 600 workers and their search for jobs with over eur 6.4 million.
in writing. ‒ this report notes that 600 workers and 500 young people not in employment, education or training in greece have been adversely affected by the global economic and financial crisis. it is encouraging that the majority of the requested funds are to support business start-ups and fund training programmes. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report, which will aid affected workers.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund in greece in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in odyssefs fokas s.a. operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 47 (‘retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles’) due to the global financial and economic crisis
in writing. ‒ the european union has set up legislative and budgetary instruments in order to provide additional support to workers who have been affected by the consequences of major structural shifts in world trade patterns and to support the reintegration of the same workers back into the labour market. the report confirms that 3 886 of 5 213 workers previously operating in the aviation industry in france will be targeted by the egf co-funded measures. personalised services for the redundant workers will include advisory services and vocational guidance for workers, training, contributions for business creation, redeployment and a mobility allowance. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it will provide additional opportunities and support to the workers (and their families) affected by these redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of all four applications for eur 35.5 million in eu aid to help create new jobs for workers who were made redundant by air france, fiat auto poland, whirlpool and a greek retailer. the european globalisation adjustment fund aid application in the case of air france will support 3 886 workers with over eur 25 million.
in writing. ‒ this report notes that 3 886 workers in france have been made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the eu market share in air transport has declined. therefore, i have voted in favour of this report, which will aid affected workers.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund in greece in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation
in writing. ‒ the single resolution board is the european resolution authority for banking, which is very important as being the second pillar of banking union. the proposed candidates were chosen through an open selection procedure on the basis of skills and knowledge of banking and financial matters and other relevant experiences. the committee on economic and monetary affairs proceeded to evaluate the credentials of the proposed candidates and held a hearing where the candidates responded to questions from the members. i decided to give my approval of the commission's proposal for each of them, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the single resolution board has the important role of restructuring the failing banks. the candidates for the board’s members have been shortlisted by the commission at the beginning of this month, following several in-camera hearings, and finally last week the european parliament also held public hearings with the candidates nominated. i think that the persons nominated are fit for the job at hand. therefore, i supported them with my vote in the plenary today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion but would like to condition it with the following observations. a banking union should serve to create transparency of operations across banks in the union while shielding national governments from the burden of bailouts should their big banks collapse. theoretically, all banks would need to be treated equally, subject to the particular conditions of their national economic environment. however, the resolution authority will inevitably be coloured by political considerations of a multilateral nature, as is happening now in the european central bank. quite likely, the political dynamics of the resolution authority will hardly be different from those of the eurogroup when, say, the latter was dealing with southern european countries. not all banks will be equal. least able to counter such considerations will be the banking systems of medium to small member states, especially in economies where financial services have become a significant sector. we need to ensure that smaller banks within the smaller economies do not become more risk-averse by inhibiting their exposure to financial services in their national economy, and more importantly when lending to smes, while becoming less competitive.
in writing.– we think it is debatable whether the new strategic fund proposed by the juncker commission will trigger new economic activity. the budget before us today equally contains investment funds, and it is important to ensure that these are mobilised efficiently. the record on investment disbursements from the budget is unsatisfactory, absorption of funds low, and delay in project implementation the rule. one reason for this has been the burdensome rules for the vetting, approval and implementation of projects. a case in point is roadwork contracts in malta. though miniscule by european standards, they were subject to brussels-based contract and award rules even when their size makes them unattractive to outside contractors. that lack of interest delays project preparation. meanwhile, the need to follow to the letter brussels-based procedures creates problems of compliance for small-scale maltese contractors. so, projects are delayed. costs escalate. as the end of the pluri-annual budget period approaches, roadworks are rushed and bunched together, leading to traffic congestion, faulty workmanship and cost overruns. it is imperative to raise the absorption rate of capital projects funded by the eu budget. the dilution of one-size-fits-all policies and a more stringent application of the principle of subsidiarity need to become real priorities.
mr president, more than ever before, european citizens are concerned about safeguarding internal security. the recent events in pakistan are grim. words cannot describe the horror of reading these stories of innocent children being killed while in school. without spreading fear, we must therefore constantly remind ourselves of the importance of a dynamic and effective security strategy and of the coherence between its internal and external aspects. the strategy should have among its priorities trafficking in human beings. this crime generates more than 150 million euros in illegal proceeds. this is a win-win situation for people who are among the most vulnerable. we also need to address extremism. i refer to the call 'foreign fighters' - european citizens who are going to join terrorist organisations and then return to europe. i cannot help mentioning libya. malta is well aware of the risks in the face of chaos in this country. the situation is still precarious. our counterterrorism coordinator has already warned of the threat of isis expansion in libya. europe cannot remain silent. it is necessary to strike the right balance between security and freedoms in any strategy in order to be prepared for the threats and risks of our time. a strategy that does not address these issues well and strongly is a weak strategy.
member of the commission. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal to the council to amend the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i would say that i start with a basic observation: that, on the whole, we all agree that security is today one of the main priorities, not only for europe but for the whole world. but what we must note is that this debate and the initiative we have taken to adopt a new european security agenda comes at a particularly critical time for both europe and the world: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union is based on these principles. the fact that there has not been a comprehensive coherent security policy is due to the fact that the forms of threat were different in the past and different now. as i said earlier, we have the unveiled threat of terrorism, which we do not know when or where it will strike, and we are living it these days: organized crime, human traffickers and traffickers, the circles, the drug dealers. all of these things combine together. there are not a few cases in some parts of the world where organized crime has been linked to terrorism. and organized states, despite having the means and the capacity, have not been able to stamp out this phenomenon. so this internal security agenda protects one of the fundamental rights that europe and the free world have won at great cost. i would like to reiterate once again that the policy we are seeking to adopt will in no way lead to europe's isolation. i've said it before: we do not want a fortress europe. europe must be open. we also must not conflate migration with terrorism, because this perception has led to wrong policies in the past, too many times. and i remind again in this room that all of us in this room come from immigrant nations, so the whole approach should be done with completely different criteria. but we are not lacking in courage or determination. i listened very carefully to what you said. and i will take them very seriously in the drafting of our final proposal. there will be many discussions, and i am sure that from this forum one of the most important policies will emerge, perhaps, to ensure peace, security, safety, the free exercise of human rights for all the peoples of europe, and from this message europe will be a leader throughout the world in the war against terrorism and any other threat that seeks to strengthen the foundations of global democracy.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council naturally attaches particular importance to the views of parliament and we have noted the arguments which have emerged in the debate. we strongly believe that the renewed internal security strategy is a step forward in building a union that protects its citizens and fully respects their rights and freedoms, including those who are resident and visiting the european union. the renewed ssi will have to focus on making better use of existing instruments before creating new ones and on developing a comprehensive, balanced and holistic approach involving all actors in accordance with the provisions of the treaties.
, in writing.– no single member state can effectively respond to cross-border and cross-sectoral security challenges on its own. this is a common responsibility shouldered by the eu; a responsibility that identifies the challenges and designs the correct measures for action to ensure citizens’ freedom and security. challenges and measures for action must be evidenced based and this requires a pooling of resources that include information. understandably security policy requires the collection of data, yet this is to be done in strict adherence to principles of data protection and in full respect of human rights. organised crime such as human trafficking and human smuggling is not a new issue of security, yet the eu has so far not been able to address this effectively. this has increased migration flows and made the eu mediterranean border a deadly space. this clearly indicates that closer cooperation among member states and with third states and non-eu related bodies is key and that an internal security system is only effective if it recognises that it depends also on foreign and security policy. an eu security strategy fighting organised crime requires effective preventive measures rather than merely repressive ones. it also requires full respect for the dignity of victims.
, in writing.– new conflicts in the eu’s immediate neighbourhood are a reality. a reality which means that the security situation in europe changed significantly in the last years. many of today’s security challenges are cross-border and as such go beyond the capacity of one individual member state to respond to them effectively. the eu urgently needs a holistic approach in order to address these rapidly changing security threats including foreign fighters and cyber-security threats. it is imperative that the eu protects all individuals, especially the most vulnerable ones, and focuses in particular on the victims of crime and terrorism. in this day and age the interdependence between internal and external security is constantly growing and the renewed eu internal security strategy should also take into account the external security dimension. as part of the eu’s external policies due consideration should be given to migration and refugee policies, cooperation with third countries in tackling criminal phenomena and establishing an effective common return policy whilst enforcing readmission obligations in agreements with third countries. furthermore, terrorism in all its forms remains a significant and ever-evolving threat to the eu’s internal security. for these reason that i call for a forward-looking and strategic iss.
madam president, mr commissioner, there is an urgent need for europe to find new ways to unlock its economic potential. investment is a crucial component to spur faster economic and social development after the crisis, while ensuring sustainable growth for europe. is the new investment plan the long-awaited change? or is this a situation of 'too little, too late'? this plan is not exactly what is needed but i think it is definitely a step that will help move europe off the current dark path it is on. it is essential in the fight against poverty and social exclusion and to relieve pressure on the social assistance system. however, there are still some technical issues that need to be clarified by the commission and the council. these include: the type and nature of the contributions of the member states and the private sector need to be defined; the governance related to the funds needs to be discussed; the dual use of financial instruments needs to be avoided. the success of the investment plan will depend on its punctuality, effectiveness and efficiency.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank commission president jean-claude juncker for this important step, which will be important for the socioeconomic growth of the european union. but today i am going to talk about another problem that exists in europe, let us also talk about ukraine, tomorrow in the council, russia was also mentioned. this problem does not concern the president of the commission, but the council. a few days ago, we had a united nations expert on countries, in malta, tell us that we will have a much more serious problem of immigration from africa to europe in the coming months. this is not a problem of malta and italy, we have said this for a long time, but it is a problem of the whole of europe. we cannot be left alone at a time when we know that serious immigration problems are coming from north africa in particular. the commission has done its best, the european parliament has done its best: the council, the member states and the commission have already taken steps to ensure that the european union is not the only one to be threatened. i regret that the italian presidency led by the social democrats did not utter a word of their own in their last moment of the presidency. we cannot keep passing countries at random. we must see real solidarity, we have human tragedy, a cemetery in the mediterranean, and it is a shame that, as member states, we are allowing all this. now is the time for action, not words!
in writing. — in recent years, the eu and moldova have intensified their political and economic relations, notably through the conclusion of an association agreement. for this reason, a politically motivated import ban was imposed by russia on agricultural products from moldova. the ban is hurting moldova’s economy in a significant way. these trade preferences i voted in favour of support reducing the economic impact of the russian ban, in particular for the most important products of moldovan fruit growers.
in writing. — this report aims at supporting moldova and its citizens who are facing serious economic difficulties, particularly due to the import ban on moldovan agricultural products, imposed by russia in july 2014. this would provide immediate relief to the moldovan economy while having a negligible impact on the eu market. hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — in light of the objectives set out in the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the eu-moldova enp action plan and the eastern partnership i voted in favour of this proposal. the report also highlights that these trade preferences would support the reform process in agriculture in moldova.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the report on autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova, which proposes to increase temporarily its fully liberalised market access for imports from moldova to the eu of the most important products for moldovan fruit growers: apples, plums and table grapes in order to reinforce its reform process and its european trajectory.
in writing. — the commission adopted this october a proposal ensuring that no new customs duties are applied on products originating in ecuador, in order to ease the burden for eu importers of ecuadorian export goods. this tariff treatment proposal introduces an element of reciprocity as well, because ecuador would also be obliged to maintain its current level of duties for eu imports. the proposal seems to be advantageous and should ecuador fail to meet the conditions laid down in the regulation proposal, the eu should have a possibility to object to a measure proposing to suspend the trade preferences. for this reason i voted in favour.
in writing. — this report deals with the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and colombia/peru. in order to avoid unnecessary trade disruption until the provisional application of this free trade agreement, the commission adopted a proposal ensuring that customs duties applied on the date of initialling of the protocol of accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia/peru free trade agreement are not increased and that no new customs duties are applied on products originating in ecuador. the proposed regulation is clearly intended to be a transitional measure preparing ecuador and the eu for the entry into force of the eu-ecuador free trade agreement. this is why i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report which would mean that both importers and exporters from both the eu and ecuador would benefit from this agreement and allow for fair competition between ecuador and neighbours who already have this form of agreement with the eu.
in writing. — i supported the report on tariff treatment for goods originating from ecuador. the proposed legislation would effectively prolong the trade preferences granted to ecuador under the gsp+ regulation, while introducing an element of reciprocity as ecuador would also be obliged to maintain its current level of duties for eu imports until the fta is provisionally applied.
in writing. — it appears necessary to mobilise the full amount of the contingency margin available to complement the payment appropriations in the general budget of the european union 2014 above the payment ceiling. according to the proposal, this amount will be used to complement payments for the implementation of very important key policies and programmes such as horizon 2020, erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative. i voted in favour.
in writing. — the implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a huge backlog in payments. the financing of this mobilisation can take place at virtually no cost to national budgets due to other unexpected additional revenues for the year 2014. hence i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because of the need to resolve the growing number of the union’s outstanding commitments. the report also stresses the need for greater flexibility in the union budget, which is becoming more important every year.
in writing. — i am in agreement with the report on mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2014.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report so that the european union can fulfil its obligations, tackle the payments backlogs and meet the payment shortages. this will bring the eu in a position to continue to affect urgent crises response measures, be in a position to deliver in the field of humanitarian aid and tackle the erasmus+ insufficient payment levels that may eventually lead to problems in the implementation of the programme.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this proposal since i agree with the commission proposal for the increase in both the forecast of revenue stemming from fines and penalties, and other revenue. this is aimed at meeting payment needs until the end of the year by covering obligations stemming from past and current commitments.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report as it emphasises the need to fully mobilise the contingency margin due to the outstanding additional payment appropriations required to meet year-end needs across the 2014 additional budget.
in writing. — i have supported this draft amending budget no 3/2014 on revenue from fines and interest payments – payment appropriations – establishment plans of the commission, the committee of the regions and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report so that the european union can fulfil its obligations, and since this draft amending budget (dab) is crucial to avoid cash shortages that could lead to an implementation deficit in 2014. adoption of dab no4/2014 will reduce the need for additional own resources for the union budget.
in writing. — this draft amending budget concerns a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, i.e. customs duties and sugar sector levies, vat and gross national income (gni) bases, and the budgeting of the relevant uk corrections. it also reduces budgetary commitment and payment appropriations for the european data protection supervisor and proposes some modifications to the nomenclature of the european regional development fund to reflect the adopted legal basis. keeping in mind that this dab is crucial to avoid cash shortages that could lead to an implementation deficit in 2014 i voted in favour of it.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the various measures agreed by the commission, council and parliament to balance the additional funds required from member states for dab no 3/2014. i also support the adoption of dab no 4/2014 as it will reduce the need for additional own resources for the union budget.
in writing. — i am in agreement with the draft amending budget no 4/2014 on traditional own resources (tor), vat and gross national income (gni) bases.
in writing. — the european union has created a european union solidarity fund to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by disasters. i have voted in favour of this report to enable the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund in favour of floods in italy, an earthquake in greece, ice storms in slovenia and the same ice storms, followed by floods, in croatia, which damaged private and public infrastructure, including households, and which had repercussions on the conditions and economic stability of the regions concerned.
in writing. — while, italy and greece were affected by non-related, different types of disasters, one of the worst winter blizzards in europe damaged several countries, with particularly damaging effects to slovenia and croatia. the commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 46 998 528. solidarity is a main pillar of our union; therefore, i voted in favour of granting this support.
in writing. — the eu solidarity fund was specifically created to show support for citizens living in areas affected by natural disasters. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal because of our responsibility to aid and ensure that the funds reach the localities that were worst affected.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes to mobilise the european solidarity fund in favour of floods in italy (sardinia) during november 2013, an earthquake in greece (kefalonia), ice storms in slovenia, and the same ice storms, followed by floods, in croatia, at the end of january/beginning of february 2014.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report due to the urgent need to release financial assistance in relation to floods in italy, earthquake in greece, ice storms in slovenia and ice storms and floods in croatia through the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because i support the mobilisation of funds through eusf to countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report. draft amending budget no 5/2014 covers the sum allocated to italy, greece, slovenia and croatia as part of the eu solidarity fund. i voted in favour of allocating the funds to repair the damage caused by natural disasters in the aforementioned countries as it is essential that our citizens receive the support they need.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 5/2014 on floods in italy (sardinia) in 2013 – earthquakes in greece – ice in slovenia – ice followed by floods in croatia in 2014.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the report as its adoption will reduce the need for member states’ gni contributions and compensate for the additional payment needs. i welcome that the proposal uses eur 6.2 million of the savings to help finance humanitarian aid crises.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the draft amending budget which relates to the revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, a reduction in the budgetary appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, as well as an increase in the budgetary appropriations for the european ombudsman.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report as it is part of a series of amendments that will compensate for the additional payment needs requested from member states in dab no 3/2014 as agreed in the joint conclusions of 8 december 2014. it goes hand in hand with the other draft amending budgets which in part were to ensure that the eu solidarity fund can aid the areas affected by natural disasters.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 6/2014 on revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions.
in writing. — traditional own resources are assessed on the basis of what appear to be objective measurements of tax resources and general economic outputs. the underlying assumption is that the methodologies deployed to gather data are fit for purpose across all member states of the eu in a comparable manner. it is necessary to continually review this assumption. for example, are estimations of services inputs across economies really comparable when ranging from larger countries to the smallest like malta? and from countries with the largest reliance on services to those with the smallest? similarly, estimates and time phasing of re-exports in national accounts have little importance for larger countries, but could distort the picture enormously for the smallest ones. meanwhile, despite the pretence, current data about public revenues and expenditures are still far from being measured on an accruals basis. what’s more, the criteria used make no allowance for the fact that some tax structures, like vat, carry a higher fixed cost per capita for smaller states than for larger ones. the use of so-called objective criteria and data give the impression that the allocation of contributions is a fair distribution of burdens among member states. it may be a mistaken impression.
in writing. — the european union has created a european union solidarity fund to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by disasters. i have voted in favour of this report to enable the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund in favour of floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria which led to the destruction of public and private infrastructure and worsened the living conditions in the affected areas.
in writing. — i agree with the commission's proposal to mobilise the european solidarity fund with regard to the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and floods in bulgaria in june 2014. in the light of the examination of the applications, and considering the maximum possible grant from the fund, as well as the scope for reallocating appropriations, the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. solidarity is a main pillar of our union. therefore, i voted in favour of granting this support.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this proposal as large parts of serbia, bulgaria and croatia were hit by heavy rains and flooding. other budgetary measures have been arranged that ensure that member states will not be required to contribute extra funds to alleviate the situation in the areas affected by natural disasters.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes to mobilise the european solidarity fund in favour of floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and to floods in bulgaria in june 2014.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report due to the urgent need to release financial assistance in relation to floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria through the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this initiative because i support the release of financial assistance through eusf to countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. — this budget amendment specifically stresses the urgency to make financial assistance available for natural disaster relief through the eu solidarity fund. i therefore voted in favour of making the funds available and making the necessary alterations to the 2014 budget to allow for aid to be sent to the countries and communities in need of assistance.
in writing. — i am in agreement with the draft amending budget no 7/2014 on floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report to enable entry of the surplus from the 2013 financial year in the 2014 budget.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report since it dealt with the issue of surplus from the implementation of the budget year 2013. the adoption of this dab no 8/2014 will reduce the share of the gni contribution from member states to the union budget by eur 1 005 million and will therefore partly compensate for their contribution to the financing of dabs no 3, 5 and 7/2014.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the adoption of this draft amending budget no 8/2014 that will reduce the share of the gni contribution from member states to the union budget and will therefore partly reduce the amount needed for the financing of dabs no 3/2014, 5/2014 and 7/2014.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 8/2014 on surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2013.
in writing. — this proposal aims to budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2013 by applying the correctional mechanism resulting in a change in the distribution between member states of their own-resources contributions to the eu budget. i voted in favour, as although the contributions of malta increased, it can provide sufficient resources to cover important programmes administered from this part of the budget such as the european maritime and fisheries fund, the sustainable fisheries partnership and the emergency aid reserve, to help address possible humanitarian crises.
in writing. — this dossier is connected to draft amending budget no 6 of 2014 on which i voted in favour, since it speaks about the revision of the forecast of traditional own resources as well as an increase in the budgetary appropriations for the european ombudsman.
in writing. — i supported this report.
in writing. — the european union has created a european union solidarity fund (eusf) to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by disasters. i have voted in favour of this report to enable a prompt reaction in the event of a natural disaster next year. a prompt reaction, including through the payment of an advance payment, will assure that the objectives of the eusf (solidarity and genuine assistance to affected citizens) are achieved.
in writing. — the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity with disaster-stricken regions within europe. the fund can provide financial aid to member states and countries engaged in accession negotiations in the event of a major natural disaster. the current decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to a specific case of a natural disaster. it aims at entering in the 2015 budget the amount of eur 50 million in commitments and payments, which corresponds to advances that will need to be paid out in a speedier and more efficient way in the event of a natural disaster next year. i agree with the need to have such a change in process to provide support in a quicker way.
in writing. — in light of the ongoing climatic challenges and natural disasters, the eu solidarity fund offers some relief for the european region. this is why i voted in favour of this proposal that will set aside funds for payment of advances and the corresponding appropriations entered into the general budget of the union. we experienced multiple natural disasters in 2014 and it is crucial that the eu solidarity fund is ready to offer support and relief for those most affected.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this report, which proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in favour of major natural disasters and express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe.
in writing. — the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 allows for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. this mobilisation seems to be necessary to finance the cypriot structural funds programmes. the mobilisation of this instrument highlights the crucial need for the union budget to be increasingly flexible.
in writing. — this report supports the commission proposal for amends to finance the additional allocation for the cypriot structural funds programmes – this after having examined all possibilities for re-allocating commitment appropriations. the report also reiterates that the mobilisation of this instrument, as foreseen in article 11 of the mff regulation, proves once more the crucial need for the union budget to be flexible. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this proposal. it is essential that the eu honours its commitments to its members and utilises any available tools to make funds available for the projects dependent on the structural funds.
in writing. — i supported the report on mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance the additional allocation for the cypriot structural funds programmes
in writing. — this new draft budget 2015 entails a eur 800 million overall reduction of payment appropriations compared to the commission’s original draft budget. the proposed distribution of payment appropriations in the new draft budget 2015 will continue to reduce the backlog of unpaid bills from the past programming period for cohesion, to address and to successfully launch the new important spending programmes in 2015. it is particularly important that the eur 20 million increase in the operational expenditure of frontex is offset by a corresponding reduction of the budget item on support of border management. i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report, since the european parliament wanted to stabilise the payment crisis and get a concrete payment plan. the european parliament managed to tackle the payment crisis by pushing for extra money in 2014 for draft amending budgets of 2014 (eur 3.53 billion), including increases in 2015 and a joint statement on a payment plan.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the adoption of the 2015 budget and would like to thank the rapporteurs for all their work in securing an agreement that improves significantly the council’s initial position and prevents the collapse of the eu budget 2015. this is an instrument to promote growth and jobs and is one that i support.
in writing. — i am in agreement with the new general budget report of the european union for the financial year 2015. i have voted in favour of amendment 21, which insists on increasing the level of commitment appropriations to eur 300 million in order to provide sufficient resources to ease the dramatic humanitarian situation and to support the efforts of reconstruction in the gaza strip.
in writing. — a compromise on the eu budget for 2015 was agreed by the council on 9 december this year. i think that this agreement safeguards the eu’s credibility and allows us to stabilise the eu debt. the consequences of non-agreement on the budget would result in detrimental effects on the implementation of key policies and programmes and would send a damaging message to the citizens of europe at a time of economic uncertainty, so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report, since the european parliament wanted to stabilise the payment crisis and get a concrete payment plan. the european parliament managed to tackle this payment crisis by pushing for extra money in 2014 for draft amending budgets of 2014 (eur 3.53 billion), including increases in 2015 and a joint statement on a payment plan.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the adoption of the 2015 budget and would like to thank the rapporteurs for all their work in securing an agreement that improves significantly the council’s initial position and prevents the collapse of the eu budget 2015. this is an instrument to promote growth and jobs and is one that i support.
in writing. — i am in agreement with the new general budget report of the european union for the financial year 2015. nevertheless, i have voted in favour of the amendment 21, which insists on increasing the level of commitment appropriations to eur 300 million in order to provide sufficient resources to ease the dramatic humanitarian situation and to support reconstruction efforts in the gaza strip.
in writing. — the classification and harmonised categorisation of infringements is an important step forward ensuring fairer competition between undertakings, more harmonised enforcement, and an effective functioning of the european register of road transport undertaking’s information exchange system. it is in the interest of transparency and fair competition to lay down the common method of calculation of a frequency of occurrence beyond which repeated infringements shall be regarded as more serious by the competent authority of the member state of establishment. such repeated infringements may lead to the launching of a national administrative procedure, which, subject to the discretion of the competent authority, may lead to the loss of good repute by a transport operator. for this reason i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report, since it opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation with regard to the classification of serious infringements of the union rules, which may lead to the loss of good repute by a road transport operator. the road transport sector is faced today with major problems, such as social dumping and unfair competition practices in the sector. the draft measure submitted by the commission is not compatible with the aim or content of the basic legislative act regulation 1070/2009, which is the completion of fair competition on the internal market, in my opinion. it also calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and submit to the committee a new list of serious infringements of the union rules which may lead to the loss of good repute by a road transport operator.
in writing. — i support this resolution in its opposition of the draft commission regulation, considering that: the list of infringements is incomplete; the words used to describe the degrees of seriousness of the serious infringements create complications for the relevant authorities to interpret; and that the existing legislation on the matter already outlines the clear provisions with regards to the responsibility carried by road transport operators.
in writing. — i supported the report on classification of serious infringements of the union rules, which may lead to the loss of good repute by the road transport operator. however, i have voted in favour of amendment 6, which is asking for the highest level of seriousness to be accorded to infringements concerning animal transportation.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the commission to withdraw the draft council directive and to submit a new one to the committee, based on the requirement that disaggregated average default ghg intensity values be reported by feedstock types for petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to report actual values.
in writing. — i voted against this resolution because the council directive obliges suppliers to reduce the life-cycle greenhouse gas intensity of fuel and other (electric) energy supplied for use in road vehicles and of fuel for use in non-road mobile machinery by the end of 2020 by 6%. this reduction would likely result from the wider use of biofuels and electricity and a drop in the flaring and venting of fossil fuels during their extraction, all of which are measures which overlap other environmental initiatives promoted by the eu. the creation of a calculation method is therefore required for these goals to be achieved.
in writing. — i am in agreement with the report on quality of petrol and diesel fuels, which will contribute significantly to reducing the climate impact of transport.
in writing. — eu legislation must retain high standards of sustainable fishing. this will require action that does not have the potential to undermine the reproductive capacity of the stock. sustainable fishing benefits not only the public, but also the industry itself, making it possible for those entering the fishing industry in the future to be able to make a decent living.
in writing. — i am not in agreement with the resolution on discard plan in the baltic sea.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report, which objects to the commission delegated regulation covering many of the empowerments under the directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance which, in several important cases, deviate significantly from the technical advice submitted, resulting in significantly lower calibrations of risk factors used in the standard formula to calculate the solvency capital requirement (scr)
in writing. — i voted against this resolution because the commission is supplementing directive 2009/138/ec in order to make the new capital requirements more risk-sensitive and more sophisticated than in the past. this in turn enables increased coverage of the real risks run by the insurer and also moves towards requirements that better fit the insurers’ risk profiles. a move away from a one-model-fits-all approach would increase insurers’ capability to operate within the internal market.
in writing. — i am not in agreement with the resolution on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii).
in writing. — it is regrettable that the commission’s communication provides an insufficient analysis of the 2010-2014 internal security strategy. it is important that a new strategy includes more effective cooperation among eu institutions. a new strategy requires better training for practitioners and a sharing of knowledge, and should encourage stakeholders’ networking, and promote further operational cooperation among member states so as to create not just a common european law enforcement culture but also a european judicial culture. any eu security policy must respect the values on which the eu is based, including that of respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law and solidarity. we need to act against social exclusion and economic inequalities, as these issues can be identified as both the cause and the consequence of global crime, radicalisation, organised crime and terrorism. successful counter-terrorism policy can prevent radicalisation of citizens by involving social services, educators, community groups, and even families. at the same time we need to ensure that a european security strategy is respectful towards the dignity of victims.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution, since i believe that the eu urgently needs a holistic approach in order to address the rapidly changing security threats facing europe, including foreign fighters and cyber-security threats. the resolution marks the beginning of an extensive and informed debate in the area of internal security. such a strategy needs to strike an appropriate balance between security and privacy rights. this is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — i welcome the renewal of an eu internal security strategy (iss) for the period 2015-2019, based on proper democratic oversight and accountability, whilst keeping in accordance with the principles of necessity and proportionality, and the respect for fundamental rights. due to continuous developments and changes in the field of security, it is of great importance that the renewed iss be ‘easily adaptable to evolving situations’, with the ability to focus on both existing threats, and emerging ones. the eu and its member states are responsible for the safety of european citizens from growing radicalisation occurring in the eu’s immediate neighbourhood.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the resolution on renewing the eu internal security strategy in order to ensure safety, freedom and justice of eu citizens.
in writing. — the eu must play a central role, together with other stakeholders, to bring about a peaceful resolution of the dispute that has tormented the lives of palestinians and israelis for generations. the little respect that this conflict has shown to human life is unacceptable. the two-state solution can start to provide israelis and palestinians with a life of peace in which children and families can thrive without fear of each other. yet this solution requires the backing of the international community, of the eu as well as of its member states: a commitment of seeking to bring both israelis and palestinians back to the negotiating table. the coexistence of two states, palestine and israel, will provide each with security as well as peaceful statehood. both must believe in their aspirations and want to attain them through peaceful negotiations rather than through occupation, settlement construction and injuring civilians. towards the end of attaining statehood, the eu must support palestine in establishing and strengthening its institutions.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution which focuses on the recognition of palestinian statehood. this joint motion for a resolution is the result of a compromise between five political groups, among which the s&d group. however, i preferred the text originally proposed by s&d on the official recognition of palestinian statehood since it was stronger and in favour of recognising palestinian statehood. i unreservedly and unconditionally support the recognition of palestinian statehood.
in writing. — i support the resolution’s call for recognition of palestinian statehood in principle, as well as a two-state solution. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. — i supported the resolution on the recognition of palestine statehood, regardless of the fact that it does not support the immediate and unconditional recognition of palestine which would be an essential element in this resolution.
in writing. — this is to declare that i voted for the resolution because it resulted from a compromise between the political groups, including the s&d, but that i unreservedly and unconditionally support recognition of palestinian statehood.
in writing. — i voted in favour as the steel industry is essential for growth and prosperity in europe and in recent years it has faced challenges. the current crisis is creating enormous social hardship for the workers. the commission needs to continue supporting and implementing the suststeel initiative as it encompasses environmental, economic and social dimensions, as well as the concept of stewardship, the responsible management of resource use. we need to show that steel products from the eu meet as high social, environmental and economic standards as those from anywhere else.
in writing. — steel has been recognised as one of the strategic sectors of the european industry, and this resolution aims at highlighting the role this industry has to play in the re-industrialisation of europe. another important aspect that was brought up was how to render the eu stainless steel industry competitive both internally and globally. hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — the manufacturing industry is a key sector in the eu’s economy, with high dependency being placed on its ability to perform well and in a competitive manner. i voted in favour of this resolution because of the need to safeguard this industry and the livelihoods that depend on it. the eu must invest in this sector, both from an r&d perspective, as well as with regard to the education of its workers. continuous development in an innovative manner is the only way that this industry can survive in such a competitive international sphere.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the resolution on the steel sector in the eu, which aims at highlighting the role that steel industry has to play in the re-industrialisation of europe.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of this resolution, even if i am disappointed with its content, which is more rhetorical than practical and often repeats what has already been said. the tragedies occurring in the mediterranean need more action and less talk. the commissioner for migration, home affairs and citizenship needs to take strong action that – at minimum – will effectively implement the suggestions incorporated in this resolution. in relation to human trafficking and smuggling, while ensuring strong criminal sanctions may be a deterrent, strong preventive measures, which include the identification of smuggling routes and trafficking gangs through closer cooperation between member states and third countries, are necessary. the effectiveness of information campaigns addressed to those who end up being victims of trafficking or smuggling is dubious unless the causes that lead persons to become victims are seriously addressed. the resolution fails to mention the political unrest that has existed for a while in a number of third countries, not least in libya. the consequences of continuous unrest in libya will continue to make migration management within the mediterranean unmanageable. the eu must ensure that operational support is provided to member states such as malta, which face a difficult challenge in managing immigration.
in writing. — i am glad to have followed this resolution from the very beginning, and glad for the libe committee to focus on the mediterranean as it is crucial that the momentum on this discussion is kept up on the european parliament level. this resolution sets out the need for the eu to adopt a more holistic approach to migration, something which i have been harping on throughout previous plenary sessions. this resolution mentions a number of actions including legal entry systems; co-operation with third countries; more consistency between eu migration, development and foreign policies. this resolution can also give the tools needed to push parliament into taking an ambitious step forward and finally examining all the interconnected areas of migration. hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. — as one of the epp negotiators on this resolution, i voted in favour because it is my belief that the eu should step up its efforts as a whole to fulfil its international obligations. this resolution emphasises the need for a holistic approach to migration by the eu. this is the only way forward. the loss of life in the mediterranean and the constant exploitation of innocent lives by trafficking networks are unacceptable and we need to step up our efforts in this regard.
in writing. — i have voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration. a new comprehensive european migration policy, reflecting the beneficial power of migration, is a moral, economic and social imperative for the eu.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me start by expressing my thanks to the members of this parliament for their interest and pointed comments. our discussion has confirmed that we agree on the need to continue to strongly support georgia moving closer to the european union. we also all welcome georgiaʼs political commitment to continue with the necessary reforms, in particular regarding the acceleration of reforms in the field of justice, the rule of law and respect for the fundamental rights of all citizens without discrimination. prosecutions should be transparent, proportionate, free of political motivation and expediency, and should adhere strictly to due process. a positive track record of implementing the association agreement, which is only a first step, and our support, will be the best way for georgia to reach our common objective: to build a democratic, stable and prosperous country. let me now turn to greek in order to honour our president. κλείνοντας, θα ήθελα να υπογραμμίσω ότι η έγκριση, αύριο, της συμφωνίας σύνδεσης ευρωπαϊκής ένωσης-γεωργίας ανοίγει την ευρωπαϊκή προοπτική μιας χώρας που, με βάση την ιστορία και τον γεωστρατηγικό ρόλο της, είναι βέβαιο ότι θα διαδραματίσει επίσης ένα σημαντικό ρόλο στη διαμόρφωση ενός περιβάλλοντος ειρήνης, συνεργασίας και προόδου για τη γεωργία αλλά και για την ευρύτερη περιοχή. ανοίγει τον δρόμο για μια σύγχρονη, ευρωπαϊκή δημοκρατία της γεωργίας που θα στηρίζεται στην αρχή του κράτους δικαίου, του σεβασμού των θεμελιωδών δικαιωμάτων και των δημοκρατικών αξιών, που θα ανταποκρίνεται στις προσδοκίες ενός λαού που αφήνει πίσω του τις δύσκολες εποχές και βαδίζει προς ένα πιο αισιόδοξο ευρωπαϊκό μέλλον.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased to respond to the request for a council statement on the 'european union and the horn of africa' initiative on migration routes, the so-called khartoum process and in particular on the outcome of the ministerial conference held in rome on 28 november 2014. i would like to express my personal satisfaction and that of the presidency for the active participation of the european union and its member states which was essential to ensure its success. we all agree that cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of migrants, in a spirit of dialogue, partnership and shared responsibility, is essential for the effective management of migration flows. the khartoum process, set up by the rome ministerial conference, provides a particularly valuable framework within which we can discuss immigration and related issues with various important partners in east africa. after a series of unsuccessful attempts, this is the first time that the european union and its member states have been able to start cooperation on immigration in this way. this also means that we would be able to have a regular dialogue with the countries of the horn of africa and east africa, regions of origin and transit for significant migratory flows to the european union. the significant increase in arrivals of migrants from the central mediterranean area is largely related to pressure originating in those regions or arising from existing transit routes in the region. at this initial stage, cooperation will focus on combating trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants. the declaration adopted by the ministerial conference identifies a number of concrete operational measures to be implemented and we are all aware of the need to take urgent measures to prosecute smugglers and traffickers and to dismantle their criminal networks. they are a serious threat to the lives of the migrants themselves. in the medium term, as the declaration clearly underlines, the aim is to broaden the framework and reach a dialogue covering all four areas covered by the global approach to migration and mobility: legal migration and mobility, irregular migration, development migration and international protection. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that the declaration recognises the promotion and respect of human rights as a cross-cutting issue in our cooperation. it also expressly recognises the need to respect and fully implement the principles of international protection with a clear reference to the 1951 geneva convention. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have defined a new framework for cooperation in the khartoum process and i think this is a good start. now, starting from this base, it is time to move to a more active phase. i call on the european union and its member states to contribute actively to the development and implementation of this new process. the support of this parliament for the khartoum process will be crucial to its successful implementation.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, today you have taken me on a journey from the united states to georgia and from georgia to the horn of africa. i hope that the travelling will end early tonight, mr president, as we are all exhausted, but this issue is of great importance, it is true. this house has witnessed many debates on the need to save lives along the perilous migration route to europe. it is also in this house that i have heard repeated calls to the commission and the member states to make practical responses to the critical reality of migrant smuggling and human trafficking from the horn of africa. to achieve these objectives we needed a framework for dialogue and for implementing concrete action together with the countries in that region. this is what the horn of africa migration initiative is – a political process on migration with the countries of the horn of africa, along with the main mediterranean transit countries, covering countries of origin, transit and destination along the migratory route from the horn of africa to europe. more specifically, it should bring together djibouti, egypt, eritrea, ethiopia, kenya, somalia, south sudan and sudan as well as libya and tunisia. beyond political declarations, we will assist partner countries in providing better responses to migrants in vulnerable situations, enhancing the ability of the law enforcement and judicial authorities in the european union and african partner countries to fight traffickers and smugglers in a more effective way. we must not forget that migration flows do not only bring challenges, but also bring opportunities both for countries of origin and for countries of destination. this is why i strongly believe that our cooperation with the partner countries in this process should not stop at fighting irregular migration. we must set out high ambitions and look together at the root causes of the migratory phenomenon. you, the honourable members of this parliament, have called several times for effective cooperation with third countries, both of origin and transit, for this very purpose. the horn of africa migration initiative is one of the responses to these calls. in line with the declaration on migration mobility adopted by the heads of state and governments at their fourth eu-africa summit, we must look at expanding our dialogue to include development and legal migration opportunities, as well as catering for effective international protection of those in need. the horn of africa migration initiative can also help us to better understand each other and to identify the common challenges we face across our continents and look for solutions in a spirit of shared responsibility. i know that many in this house will have questions about how the human rights they mention are integrated in this process, especially with countries where democratic values are not respected. i can reassure you that promotion of human rights remains an absolute priority for our migration policy and its external dimension, and this is fully reflected in this framework of dialogue. on that basis, we can continue developing this process and ensure that it stays continuously adapted to our political objectives – objectives that are shared, fully accepted and voluntary. i look forward to the swift launch of practical action and projects to put this dialogue into practice and to achieving tangible results soon. concerning the two main themes, we would firstly, on the issue of stranded migrants, mainly aim at developing regional frameworks and national strategies for voluntary returns and the reintegration of migrants. i am glad to announce that for this purpose initial funding of eur 5 million has already been identified from the european union development cooperation instrument. secondly, on the issue of the development of national and regional strategies to fight organised crime, in particular smuggling and trafficking in human beings, we have set aside eur 750 000 from the international security fund to finance this action. the individual projects are currently being developed by the commission, and their implementation will start next year. we will encourage our african partners to consider these proposals and to engage in putting them into practice. member states have expressed their interest in taking the lead in implementing initiatives in relation to these two areas. the peer-to-peer exchanges that these activities will foster are essential for strengthening ties and identifying durable solutions. to conclude, improving the current dramatic situation lies in our hands. i strongly believe that establishing a sustainable dialogue and implementing it through concrete cooperation on the ground is part of the solution. we must act now and we must act together. only by joining forces as a european union can we, the commission, the european external action service and the eu member states, seize this unique opportunity. the commission is counting on parliament’s political support for this process.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to begin this speech by welcoming the khartoum process that was launched a few weeks ago. this process is aimed at addressing the smuggling of migrants between the horn of africa and europe. this process has led to countries finally coming forward and putting themselves on the table and therefore, with good reason, to be optimistic. as we have argued on several occasions and reiterated today, the only way forward for a successful european immigration policy is to have holistic solutions. to take all aspects into account. one of the most crucial of these aspects is to ensure full cooperation with third countries in africa, in particular from countries of origin of migrants and countries of transit. they must be assisted in all efforts against any illegal activities carried out on the most vulnerable. we must also help to address the root causes of what leads people to leave their country. the process is extensive, but it is important that it will also serve to support the victims of this illegal activity trafficking in human beings while the process must protect the human rights of migrants, of those caught in the act of trafficking. it is now important to have sufficient funds to make this process a success. this process cannot be left on the shelf. we have to find solutions to make this process work. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to blue paper. yes, madame vergiat, not that i know the situation in those countries, but i live in a country where the people who come to me for help and seek protection in my country are from those countries. and that is why we have said, as we have also said in the resolution we voted on this morning, that we must make every effort to combat all forms of trafficking in human beings in order to protect the vulnerable.
in writing. — the livelihoods of european fishermen must be protected. the trust that european consumers place in food products ought not be tarnished. a guarantee of the products’ legal origin must be secured, and standards set for sustainable fishing applied equally across the board.
in writing. — the generalised scheme of preferences allows developing country exporters to pay less or no duties on their exports to the eu. this gives them vital access to eu markets whilst promoting trade and development. gsp+ is granted to countries providing they ratify and implement 27 international conventions relating to human and labour rights, environment and good governance. a revised, more stringent gsp regulation came into effect in 2014, for which the philippines fulfils the criteria and therefore applied for. however, certain members believe that we should reject the philippines application and a motion for objection was tabled due to the philippines ‘yellow card’ under the eu’s illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing regulation. although the commission has found issues related to the philippines’ compliance with the illegal unreported and unregulated regulation, this does not affect the philippines’ compliance with the 27 conventions (including the environment-related ones) required for entry to gsp+. the philippines has committed to investigating and improving the situation. considering additional criteria beyond those set out in the gsp, such as the iuu, is outside the scope of the agreement reached by both member states and parliament. hence i voted against this motion objecting to the philippines’ application.
in writing. — i am not in agreement with this resolution.
in writing. — resolution financing arrangements need to be sufficiently funded to allow for a proper functioning of the resolution framework and protect financial stability without recourse to taxpayers’ money. it is also in the interest of the banking sector that the financing arrangements have enough resources to intervene where necessary for the effective application of the resolution tools. i have no objection to the delegated regulation of the commission so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution declaring that it has no objections to this delegated regulation, in line with the implementing regulation specifying uniform conditions of application of regulation (eu) no 806/2014 with regard to ex-ante contributions to the single resolution fund.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this recommendation because i have no objections to the delegated regulation so as to ensure that banks are more resilient to future shocks.
in writing. — i am in agreement with the ex-ante contributions to resolution financing agreements.
in writing. — the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with georgia for the conclusion of a new agreement (dcfta) to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement. it is now necessary to conclude this agreement on behalf of the european union. i think that this agreement is very favourable for the member states, while the eu will benefit from smoother commercial flows and better investment conditions in georgia. it is expected that the dcfta will boost trade between the eu and georgia by 12% as regards georgia’s exports to the eu, and by 7.5% for imports from the eu. for this reason i voted in favour.
in writing. — this is parliamentʼs resolution accompanying the consent vote on the association agreement. i believe in strengthening relations between the european union and neighbouring countries the likes of georgia, hence i voted in favour of this association agreeement.
in writing. — an association agreement between the european union and the creation of deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) between both parties would be beneficial to all involved. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement because of the growth, job creation, prosperity and stability such an agreement would bring to georgia. georgia will have to adapt its laws and standards so as to respect the common norms and values of the union. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — i supported this association agreement with georgia as a tool for georgia’s further democratisation and european integration.
in writing. — this agreement is very favourable for the member states, while the eu will benefit from smoother commercial flows and better investment conditions in georgia. i voted in favour.
in writing. — by establishing a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with the eu, georgia should increase its market access to the largest economic block, by taking binding commitments on the adoption of laws, standards and common values, whilst the eu will benefit from smoother commercial flows and better investment conditions in georgia. i believe in strengthening relations between the european union and neighbouring countries the likes of georgia, hence i voted in favour of this association agreeement.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it is important that the association agreement (aa) between the union and georgia moves forward. there is strong cross-party support and wide popular approval for the aa in georgia and it is essential that the eu does its part to ensure that the socioeconomic benefits of the aa start being felt in georgia as soon as possible.
in writing. — i supported the association agreement with georgia as a tool for georgia’s further democratisation and european integration.
