mr president, last saturday we lost the former prime minister of the state of israel, ariel sharon. i'd like to ask for a minute of silence for him. thank you, sir.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the netherlands we have a vibrating earth, in the north of the netherlands, in groningen. that's because of our big gas gains from the past and big gas production there. we were so excited, but now we're seeing the consequences. cracks in houses, massive damage and an earth that is shaking right now. we don't know how to stop this either. we've been looking at whether we can find a solution by maybe eventually making it a ccs project, or at least putting something back. but in the end it turns out that in the netherlands it is now so far: we don't want to do this. this has been clear before, for example in the bar. to put gas, co2, back into the soil, there's no public support for that. not under your schools, not under your own house, not even under your own village. so there is no public support. that's point one, and actually i think i need hardly mention anything else. but there are four other points. that is: who's in charge? yeah, well, that's pretty clear for now. but we have seen in recent years how fast europe is developing. so who's responsible for 50, 100, 250 years from now? thirdly, the investment in ccs is excessive. you're kind of creating a parallel universe of energy. if i may remind you for a moment: it took 150 years to get to this energy system that we have now, and it cost trillions of dollars. fourthly: every dollar we put into ccs is one too many. we could have put that into real renewable energy, the real future that we're all responsible for.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. whereas in 2009 there were 100 killings, that number tripled to 300 in 2010. and it became clear to me two years ago that it wasn't just about rhinos. it turned out to be about elephants, too. thirty to forty thousand elephants are now being butchered there each year. about ten percent of the total population. but not just these large animals, but tigers, armadillos, snakes, reptiles, birds, and even plants and trees. mr. president, one thing has become clear to me: our nature has been declared bird-free and is being completely plundered. the main cause is the increased prosperity in southeast asia. this has created a market of illegal wildlife products worth over 15 billion euros annually. this makes it the fourth largest illegal trade in the world. after drugs, counterfeit goods and human trafficking comes wildlife crime. to combat this, i drew up my own european action plan a year ago and submitted it to the european commission. i am glad that the european commission has taken elements of that over. among other things, that led to an agreement with china last year to work together to fight wildlife crime. but, mr president, that is far from enough. this is also reflected in the latest figures for 2013. unfortunately, wildlife crime has skyrocketed again last year. i was talking about 100 rhinos in 2009, 300 in 2010 in south africa. last year, there were a thousand. it's just kept growing, despite all the efforts of ngos, rangers on the ground, organizations like europol, interpol, unep, traffic and many, many others. so, mr president, the conclusion is clear. if we don't take radical action very soon to stop these illegal practices, we're going to end up with the most iconic species on earth in the wild. that is why i have taken the initiative of this oral question with resolution. the role of europe is also important. it's not just about africa and asia. i'll tell you why. first of all, we have a very strong moral obligation to combat this mass slaughter, and that is not unimportant. secondly - and this is a serious matter - our member states unfortunately also play a major role in this trade, both as destinations and as ports of transit. i'll give you some figures from 2012 in the netherlands. at one point, 600 kilos of armadillo were intercepted there, or 50 tusks in one shipment. there were 680 kilos of illegal coral in one package, and 2,500 dead seahorses. it also indicates that there are many different species involved. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i would therefore like very much for the european commission to play a much greater role in this. thirdly, mr president, wildlife crime has a huge social impact. the disruptive effect is destabilizing entire regions. the easy money is attractive to many, as is the drug trade. it could make billions in development aid worthless. what's to be done? first of all, i think it is important that the european commission, together with the member states, should come up with its own action plan, which should be concrete and ambitious. as i said, expertise and capacity must be developed in the member states, both for investigation and for the judiciary. and with much higher penalties. criminals are getting away with it too easily. we must treat this crime as organized crime and deal with it in the same way as we deal with drug trafficking and many other organized crimes. much higher priority. we must set up a special wildlife crime unit within europol. that's how serious it is. it's absolutely necessary. we must use european trade and development policy to combat wildlife crime. condition aid through development instruments on contributions to combating wildlife crime. the resolution also calls on the commission and the member states to set up a trust fund to protect protected areas. president - and i shall end with this - what are we worth as politicians if we watch the plundering of our nature, of our most imaginative plant and animal species, but also the many less imaginative species that are disappearing because criminals are making billions from it. nothing, mr president, and let 2014 be the year that not only talks about wildlife crime, but also takes concrete action. i assume that the european commission and the member states will agree with this parliament and will come up with a concrete and ambitious action plan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his answers to our questions. on the one hand, i am pleased with what the commissioner is saying. there will be a communication, communication with other commissioners, there will be a public consultation. it's all very beautiful, but i wonder if it's not too little and too slow. the 10th of april, a public consultation. between now and april 10th, that's over three months, that's 10,000 elephants. that is what we are talking about, that urgency, that is what we are talking about. how long can we afford to be so slow and unsteady in dealing with this? i understand the good intentions of commissioner potočnik. but i have the impression that we really need to take this to a higher plane. you yourself mentioned the united states. they're an example of that. it was hillary clinton as secretary of state who put this on the national agenda. it was even president obama who said this during his visit to africa. in the united states, i have the impression that it is given a much greater urgency. not only because they are so concerned about wildlife in the world, but also because they realize that this has a huge social impact in africa, in asia and in many other parts of the world, and also because this is becoming a giant criminal organization that is out of control. so, mr president, i would ask the commissioner to make it even more urgent to ensure that not only does he sign a memorandum of understanding with his chinese counterpart, but that the president of the european commission, mr barroso, discusses this with the president of china, with the presidents and prime ministers in africa and in other countries where this is on the agenda. i also feel that we should be much more inclined towards the european consumer. why not follow the example of other countries and call on the member states to publicly burn all the illegal ivory we have collected? that is such an important signal to consumers and they will understand that it is indeed not possible to import ivory from countries. mr president, yesterday i read that the lion in west africa is extinct, that the last elephants are roaming in the same part of africa. we really have very, very little time left. i would therefore ask the commission to give it much more urgency. in 2009, you yourself made recommendations to the member states. i have the impression - and this was also shown by the answers to my written questions - that the member states are doing far too little, far too little capacity, far too little national priority, both in the field of detection and in the field of justice, to ensure that europe is no longer the transit country and destination for a great many of these illegal wildlife products.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, while most of my colleagues are obviously at dinner, i would like to draw your attention very briefly to the important issue of food fraud, which we are voting on tomorrow. of course, i would first of all like to thank the other groups, the shadow rapporteurs in particular, for the good cooperation they have shown so far. that led to support for the drafting of this report and also to the unanimous adoption of this report in the committee on the environment and public health. this is the first time that the european parliament has addressed the phenomenon of food fraud in this report, following a number of scandals, including the horse meat scandal last year. the first problem you run into is the lack of comparable data to make a good estimate of the exact scale of the problem. we know from academic studies - the few available - from europol interventions and from discussions with the sectors concerned which products are concerned, such as meat, olive oil, wine, organic products, but even coffee and tea are mentioned. we also know that billions of people in the european union are involved in the phenomenon of food fraud, and we are getting signs that organized crime is also beginning to take an interest in it. but there is a great need to get a better picture of the problem, and that is our first demand. for example, unlike the united states, commissioner, the european union does not yet have a common definition of food fraud. and it needs to be there soon to build on that. the report provides a first stimulus to this end. in short, the fight against food fraud in the european union is still in its infancy and has long been a blind spot for national and european authorities. especially those cases of fraud which did not have a direct impact on public health. of course, the protection of the health of europeans is and remains the highest priority. but other cases of food fraud also call for attention, because these rotten apples are ruining the lives of the vast majority of farmers, of businesses, of intermediaries who do follow the rules. these rotten apples are also destroying consumer confidence in food and nutrition information. in my own member state, the netherlands, for example, one third of consumers say they no longer trust food labels. i think that's a serious matter for the whole sector. the risk of food fraud is partly determined by the chance of getting caught and the potential profit that can be made from fraud. so the odds should be higher and the punishment should be more deterrent. i will give you the example of the horse meat scandal in ireland. four companies were involved. three companies committed the fraud just outside the irish border. that leaves one company the irish could potentially sue. the maximum fine, if they can prosecute that company, is then 30 000 euros, whereas with one container of horse meat relabelled as beef the profit is 65 000 euros. i think that the irish example shows very well what needs to change in the european union. first, tougher penalties. as far as we're concerned, at least twice the potential profit you can make from fraud. and people who make mistakes over and over again, we're gonna lose their license. second, we need to make controls smarter. and this is not just a question of more money, although we are very concerned about the cuts that are being made in the control services in the member states from time to time. but it also requires a different approach, less predictable, a more police-like approach than an official approach, as is already the case in denmark and italy, for example. improved crossborder cooperation also through europol, through a rapid alert system of the european commission. the 28 pieces of the national control puzzle need to fit together much better to give a single picture across europe. improved information flows through the production chain, especially among traders and intermediaries. but also, of course, the responsible business of supermarkets. telling people to do it cheaper doesn't always translate into quality. i would like to conclude by saying something about the origin labelling of meat, because that is going to be a big part of the debate. and the report rightly says that origin labelling is not in itself a means of combating fraud. in fact, you might be able to cheat on that origin labeling. but on the other hand, it might make people think more about where their ingredients come from, especially a fragile product like meat. so the report says: the commission, the european parliament and the council have all agreed that the commission should also make proposals on meat as an ingredient, but that this should be done in the light of an impact assessment and without any administrative burden. i think that the report is balanced overall and i look forward to the reactions of my colleagues and the vote tomorrow.
in writing. the pvv believes that consumer information and education are not a task for the european union. national consumer organisations are well placed to provide this if necessary. in addition, they can cooperate bilaterally on cross-border issues. this regulation provides subsidies for consumer information (such as comparative price or product information), which can be well organised by the market itself. enforcement and supervision are also eligible. however, as far as the pvv is concerned, these must be regarded as a regular task of supervisors and therefore a subsidy for this is absurd. the pvv is opposed to the proposal for these reasons.
in writing. − this report deals with the important issue of labour inspections, which are essential to the enforcement of rules on working conditions. it is important that member states cooperate, for example to combat social dumping, but it should be noted that labour inspection is not an eu competence. it is the responsibility of the member states to enforce proper working conditions. i vote in favour of the report on the assumption that it will not lead to more eu competences in this field.
president. - the commission's package of measures on public procurement aims to achieve a number of objectives, including efficiency in the spending of public funds. the pvv has a useful suggestion for achieving this efficiency: abolish concession and procurement policies and regulations. let the member states decide how and by whom they want their contracts, public works and utilities to be carried out. the rules only lead to more bureaucracy and more costs for the taxpayer. in addition, this proposal is crafty in imposing a political agenda of climate hysteria, diversity policies and other socialist nonsense on business owners. governments may take these aspects into account in their procurement procedures. the commission, the citizens want to pay for their tax money and certainly not to participate in more nonsense which is only useful to officials.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - thank you, mr president, and thank you, commissioner de gucht. my suggestion to the committee on development and cooperation was to send this proposal back to the commission in its entirety. my proposal did not pass, but i will argue here why i think it should be returned. you could say that public procurement is part of free trade. i would argue that public procurement is also a way for a country to stimulate its own activity. and if i look at the agreements that countries around the world have concluded on the effectiveness of development cooperation (paris, accra, busan), public procurement is also used as a tool to help the home market. i understand that you want to open up the markets in china, brazil and india to european companies, and i have no problem with that either. but you could argue the other way around. it is the european union which has singlehandedly opened its own public procurement market to companies from outside the union. and it now seems that a coalition is being formed here in this parliament between those who want to bid on the chinese market - which i have no problem with - and those who think: this is a great way to close the european market again. but those who are caught between the rock and the hard place are the developing countries. the definition used in this proposal is that of developing countries. china and brazil and india are still, by the oecd definition, developing countries. but so are cameroon, fiji, ivory coast, guatemala and the gaza strip. they fall under the same definition. so in future they will not be able to say 'no thank you, i will help my own companies first', when it is only theoretically possible for them to bid on our market. that has to be resolved before we have a proposal that can be used.
madam president, although we are not obliged to do so through the wto gpa agreements, the eu chooses openness to our markets, including public procurement, and that makes sense. other countries are, sadly, not always acting in the spirit of reciprocity towards us, and this impacts on our businesses, whether large or small. it may be tempting to some to answer protectionist measures such as ‘buy american’ with ‘buy french’ or ‘buy european’, but we must resist such a race to the bottom, where one protectionist measure leads to another. instead of being reactive, together we must be proactive. this means we have to act strongly together and leverage the european single market while seeking free trade and access, also for our businesses, to public procurement globally. the amendments before us are the start of a process in which we must think broadly about the appropriate trade defence instruments while striving for global growth and development and trade. we are, of course, particularly aware of the importance of public procurement and reciprocity in our dealings and negotiations with the united states over the transatlantic trade and investment partnership.
mr de gucht, mr caspary and all the other members, we have a real problem. we want the public procurement market to be open. in europe it is also open, but there is no reciprocity everywhere. in some countries, it's just sitting there. so that means that where we are denied access, we have to look for solutions. i think that the commission has done a very creative thing. but i have my doubts. - why? - why? if the commission is going to decide to exclude a supplier on the basis of the origin of goods, i wonder whether we might not also be putting our own companies at a disadvantage, because our own companies are connected to companies elsewhere by the global value change. and i have a feeling that what we have agreed now, whatever is in the amendments, may not work. i also have some questions about the administrative burden that might result. because if you have to indicate the obligation of this added value, then you could also say that it could lead to protectionism. i have a further question on article 6. if you allow the decentralized authorities to say to the commission whether or not someone should be excluded, you are in effect decentralizing a piece of your foreign policy. i give everything the benefit of the doubt, but i do have a lot of questions.
i would like to congratulate mrs macovei on the result achieved. i do not know who coined the name hercules at the time, but it is clear that the task we are faced with of protecting europe's financial interests is indeed a 'work of hercules'. it's not easy. as for the smuggling of cigarettes, i think we are not dealing with it only in europe, but it is a worldwide problem. that we can learn from each other is clear. we will have to consult a lot, with the member states, with everyone who is involved, because the methods of smuggling are becoming more and more complex and better and also more difficult to detect. if we look at the budget, we see that the budget has not increased significantly compared to previous years. that is a phenomenon which we can detect in all aspects of the budget at the moment. so we will clearly have to work more closely with the member states and we will have to learn what the best methods are. clear consultation, regular consultation with all stakeholders. it is therefore important that regular reporting with parliament is carried out so that there can be an active discussion on the best methods. cooperation is needed not only with the member states but also with neighbouring countries. a delegation from the committee on budgetary control recently visited kaliningrad. it was extremely strange that, if we were to believe the statistics we were given, cigarette consumption in that country and also production was considerably higher than the population of that enclave could justify. the strange thing was that the russian authorities had no interest whatsoever in discussing this problem with us. i would strongly recommend that the commission should also deal with the problem of cigarette smuggling, particularly with the russian authorities.
in writing. the pvv eurofraction voted against this report. it is for combating eu fraud and waste, but not at eu level. the subsidiarity principle places this on the national member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. pumping and/or spending tax money at eu level almost automatically leads to fraud.
mr president, the tachograph was once used as an aid to enforcement of the driving and resting time laws. the law aims to improve road safety and to prevent exploitation. there are various road offences. the new tachograph, however, will not solve these problems. and what's perhaps even worse is that this device is a gross violation of privacy. the device almost permanently registers the driver's location and, in the event of an emergency, can be remotely monitored and read. 'big brother eu is watching you!' this proposal is a very visible interference with the personal life of professional drivers. this is the conclusion of the european data protection supervisor. road safety is of the utmost importance, but the digital tachograph is not the answer.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the future of the community. i think it is very important that we realise that europe is a specific continent with specific problems. we're very densely populated. we have very few resources of our own and we have an aging population. so if we keep looking back at how things were, we're fooling ourselves. because what europe needs to do is to make our quality our strength. and our strength is precisely an economy that is innovative, that is forward-looking and that is working towards an economy that is efficient in its use of resources. that's the sustainable economy, that's the circular economy, that's the sustainable bio-based economy. that is where europe can be strong. we need policies for that. we all know that, even the british do industrial policy, only it is based on nuclear energy or shale gas. we are choosing a different industrial policy and we are therefore saying that the commission has a good chance with the climate and energy package next week. and i look at mr tajani: the commission will also set targets for renewable energy and energy saving. then we really do work on that industrial agenda.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, this evening's debate to approve the document under consideration, together with the text that will be approved, shows how much europe has changed compared to five years ago. this legislature with the present commission has certainly reversed a trend and given europe a new industrial policy strategy. this is not nostalgia for industrial policy in the 1900s, let alone the 1800s: it is a new way of focusing on growth with a modern, competitive, clean, high-quality industrial network, focusing on key sectors such as biotechnology, nanotechnology. a comprehensive industrial policy, thanks also to the support we have had - and i thank mr bütikofer for having emphasized this in his text - from the competitiveness council, which has become a sort of real industry council. we have adopted a number of initiatives, legislative and non-legislative, which have established a general framework for european industrial policy, the objectives we set ourselves, the overall strategy but also the actions to be taken sector by sector. i am thinking of cars 2020, i am thinking of the steel action plan, i am thinking of the compatible construction action plan, i am thinking of the shipyard action plan, leadership 2020, i am thinking of the action plan for an important industrial sector such as tourism, which is not talked about enough, i am thinking of the innovation partnership, for innovation, recycling and substitution of raw materials, with a strong european raw materials policy. mr bütikofer knows how much effort has gone into providing europe with such a strategy, in perfect symbiosis between the commission and the european parliament. but industrial policy means defending industry as a whole, and when i say industry i also mean the workers employed in it, because for the first time, also when the steel plan was presented, the commission told mr mittal to wait for europe's political choices before deciding on closures, before sending workers home, and thanks to the action of the european union, we have managed to prevent degeneration and thus to make industry wait for the political choices of the european union. we are also working to defend tenneco's asturian workers. because i'm totally against what tenneco is doing, because we can't close offices when they're making a lot of money ― and tenneco is making a lot of money―; we cannot look to invest in russia. i am against it, and i say it here in front of the european parliament: it is also industrial policy to defend workers. when you win, you don't close the shop. ...and we will do so for all industrial sectors where there will be an attempt to make money without looking at social policy, because the pole star that drives this european industrial policy is called the social market economy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what i believe we have changed in the last five years. of course, there's a lot to do. we must work to implement all the action plans, to give new rules, to ensure that there is an industrial policy that will achieve in the next few years the 20% target for which we are fighting for of gross domestic product from manufacturing. there will be much to do, much to commit to. but i believe that this is the best recipe for creating jobs, for getting out of the crisis once and for all and for creating, in the future, an economic fabric which will be able to withstand any future crises. because the european regions with a strong industrial and entrepreneurial fabric - and when i speak of industrial policy i always mean small and mediumsized enterprises too - are those which have withstood the shock of the crisis better. that is why i am firmly convinced that europe needs this new industrial revolution, which focuses on energy saving, which also focuses on new renewable energies, which focuses on a more modern energy policy, an energy policy that is more european. of course, we cannot expect all of europe to be industrialized in the same way, but we must certainly ensure that there is an entrepreneurial fabric, including internationalisation, to prevent relocation. that is why i firmly believe that this evening's debate and the document you are about to adopt - i believe this is the third debate on industrial policy during this parliamentary term, plus the many others we have had on the various sectors - represent an extraordinary political success because finally, after years and years, europe is once again believing in manufacturing, europe is once again believing in the real economy with its policy. that is why i think the message that is being sent out today by the european parliament and tomorrow by the vote on this document is important. but the decisions of the european commission next week will also send out further messages to the heads of state and government to ensure that they are strongly implemented and are increasingly convinced of the need to continue to implement this industrial policy, which is essential to create jobs and give hope to our young people.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, as a former colleague, i am honoured and excited to be here before you today, on the occasion of the fifth greek presidency. i am speaking today to you, who embody the common conscience of european citizens and the common will of our peoples to move towards european integration, to make europe a reality, to make europe a reality. i am speaking as president of the european council, the institution which expresses the sovereign will of the member states to move forward with the unification of europe. i would also like to pay tribute to the european commission, the institution which has implemented and monitors european integration in all its aspects and in all its details on a daily basis. we have the conscience of the european union, which is you. we have the sovereign will and the basic design of european integration which is the council. and we have the implementing mechanism, which is the commission. the soul, the mind and the muscle of the european idea. there may have been times when these three pillars were not in perfect harmony with each other. i did. but we wouldn't have gotten where we are if they hadn't found a way to work together and balance each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what we will work for and that is what we will strengthen. and that's my first commitment to you. as someone who was just a few years ago one of you, i know your agonies. i've had my own anxieties. i know your ambitions. i had my own ambitions. the european parliament must be strengthened. to be able to control decisions and to put the needs and interests of the european citizen at the heart of decisions. we all want a strong and responsible european parliament. we're proud that his influence has grown. greece as a country has supported this for years. and now we are confident that he will use his increased powers in the best way to bring the ideals of a united europe closer to the european citizens. i'm still talking to you at a very critical moment. the united europe has been tested in recent years. its cohesion has been tested, its strength has been tested, even the entire structure of the currency's public has been tested. and there were significant "construction shortfalls". but now that crisis is beginning to be overcome. not by herself. not automatically the crisis is overcome because europe has begun to overcome its weaknesses, has seen its mistakes, and has begun to correct them. we have thus proved, during and because of the crisis, that a united europe works. the changes we have initiated in the last two years must be completed. and we can go even further. the crisis has shown us that we need 'more europe and better europe'! that's what we do. and this is my next commitment to you: in the next period, we must go even further, even more decisively, so that in the european elections next may, which coincide with the end of the greek presidency, european citizens do not vote with the bitter taste of the crisis. but with the feeling, with the hope, that the crisis is over and that europe is coming out stronger and better. ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, i speak to you finally, and as prime minister of greece, the country that has been tested the most by this crisis. my country has been tested in recent years as perhaps no other member state of the union has ever been tested. she was tested by her own mistakes that had been going on for decades. it has even been tested because of the manufacturing weaknesses of the single currency itself. finally, it was tested by errors made in the design of the first programme, such as the 'multiplier' error which underestimated the impact of the first programme on the subsequent recession. and it turned out to be much bigger. greece was tested, but it held out! and now she's changing radically, overcoming her problems and entering a path of healing and recovery. i know that a lot has been said in this chamber, both positive and negative, about this period. let's just keep one thing in mind here: greece has kept its commitments and honoured its signature. in other words: we delivered! and i want to give you my personal experience: failure, my friends, is not about falling down. failure is not getting back up! and if when you fall, you get back up with tenacity, with faith and with your head held high, that's a special achievement. and i am proud that my country, through the unimaginably painful sacrifices of our people, is today back on its feet. so i'll say two words to you right now: in the last few months, greece has achieved the biggest fiscal correction ever in the shortest time: it has managed, in four years, to reduce its deficit by 13% of its current gdp! but to do this, it suffered a 25% decline in its gdp, the largest gdp decline ever seen internationally since the great depression of the 1930s! in six consecutive years of recession, the average greek has lost about 38% of his living standard compared to 2007. unemployment has risen from 7% to over 27%. and among young people under 25, it reached 60%. i really hope that this drama will never be experienced by another country. but more importantly, in the midst of such conditions of prolonged recession, greece embarked on one of the most ambitious, one of the most sweeping reform and structural change programs ever. in the oecd international ranking, greece is already ranked first internationally in the implementation of structural changes. and the results were: according to all surveys, greece has already regained all the competitiveness it lost since 2002, and has also brought its trade balance deficit to zero. in 2013, for the first time, greece posted a primary budget surplus. it has turned a surplus on its current account for the first time in many years. and 2014 is forecast to see the first recovery after six years of recession. we are under no illusion. we've come a long way, but we still have a long way to go. we have a lot to do. but we have succeeded in stabilizing the country, its economy and its society. and to give you an idea of the size and importance of what we have achieved, it is enough to say that today greece has the largest structural primary surplus in europe and in the eurozone. what is meant by 'structural primary surplus'? it means that if greece were to seize its economic potential, it could not only cover its current needs - which it already does - but also cover its borrowing interest and have a surplus every year to reduce its debt. and that's what we're trying to do now: accelerate sustainable growth from now on, so that we get rid of all need for support. and so that we can successfully complete the structural changes. because reforms are much easier in conditions of recovery and growth than in conditions of prolonged recession. which we're fortunately overcoming now. all this, of course, was achieved thanks to the unprecedented sacrifices and maturity of the greek people. but we also succeeded, thanks to the support of our partners. and from this position, i want to thank the people of europe for the solidarity they have shown to greece. i would like to thank the european parliament in particular. i would also like to thank president barroso, with whom we have been in constant contact during the most difficult hours of this project. and so greece avoided the disorderly default and achieved the largest debt reduction ever without default. this is a european achievement, and no one should underestimate it. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but i have been working to correct those mistakes ever since. and then, as a government, we fixed it to a great extent. and so, while the programme seemed to be failing in the early years, now its key objectives are not only being met, but sometimes even exceeded. as was the case with the primary surplus planned for 2014 and already achieved since 2013. ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, a year and a half ago, my country was on the brink of disaster, and many people were speculating - and some were taking it for granted - that it would leave the euro. some even predicted that this would lead to the break-up of the eurozone. some went so far as to declare that the european union would also be dissolved! we've disproved all the cassandras! today the picture is completely different. greece has shown that europe works. that europe can. that our union is strong. and we prove it in the most compelling way: by overcoming our crises and coming out stronger from them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. today greece is taking over the presidency of the union and i believe that in this way greece is becoming the symbol that europe is resilient, that europe is moving forward, that europe is working, that europe can. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we shall proceed first of all with everything that has already been started. and we will put new issues on the european agenda. all of this can be summed up in four major priorities: first, to stimulate growth and employment. because prolonged unemployment undermines the cohesion of the societies most affected. but it also threatens the cohesion of the whole of europe! because when countries are at a standstill, they have the illusion that everyone can save themselves. that is precisely what we must fight. together we can achieve much more and much faster. and this 'all together' requires that we get out of the logic of prolonged stagnation. because the recession is tearing apart, not uniting. we must also strike a balance between stabilisation and sustainable growth. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. - long-term development is not the opposite of fiscal discipline. one is a prerequisite for the other. - in the long run, competitiveness is not the enemy of social justice. one cannot exist without the other. the precise framework for promoting growth, employment and cohesion is as follows: - the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, which will start in the first quarter of 2014; - the pact for growth and jobs adopted by the european council in june 2012; - the deepening of the single market; - the new multiannual financial framework; and - the coordination of economic policies in the context of the european semester, in which the role of the european parliament and national parliaments is being significantly expanded. the greek presidency will give priority to promoting financing for the real economy, with a particular focus on smes. the commission's joint initiative with the european investment bank, with specific alternatives for financing european smes, has the full support of the greek presidency. we will do everything we can to help this initiative succeed, with the aim of improving growth rates and job-intensive projects in sectors such as transport, energy, shipping and tourism. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. financial initiatives to combat unemployment, such as the youth guarantee, are an important but not sufficient means of preventing this risk. at the same time, the debate on the long-term financing of the european economy must continue. a dialogue that started in march 2013 with the european commission's 'green paper'. the greek presidency will also promote the objectives of the 'growth and employment pact', including the completion of the single market, the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud, the advancement of innovation, the improvement of the regulatory framework in the union and the strengthening of external trade. secondly, to support our common currency and to increase confidence in the european economy. this means deepening emu, with the main immediate step being the completion of the banking union. we will work intensively with you in the trilogue to achieve the adoption of the single resolution mechanism (srm), which will break the vicious circle between banking and public debt, without compromising the single and european character of the mechanism. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. already yesterday, i have the pleasure of telling you that we had a first success: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must not forget that a sound banking system is not just about 'bankers', it's about depositors, it's about investors, it's about providing the liquidity that every economy needs. but also the trust that's necessary for liquidity. finally, it is directly related to both competitiveness and employment. these are not all different, nor are they all competing with each other. they are different aspects of what we call 'more and better europe'. the european union is a europe of stability, confidence and growth. thirdly, the response we must give to the problem of migration, the tragic dimension of which is revealed almost daily at europe's sea and land borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it may concern some of us more: the countries on the geographical borders of the union. but it's about all of us. the principles which should govern our approach are solidarity between partners, shared responsibility for the protection of the common european borders, proportionality in burden-sharing and, of course, the involvement of third countries, from which migration flows originate or through which they pass to reach us. because the phenomenon must be effectively tackled at its source. and that includes measures to repatriate illegal immigrants, those who are not from war zones and are not entitled to asylum. but here we have an additional humanitarian task. we must strike at the criminal networks which are smuggling, and this is the most tragic aspect of this case, people from different parts of the world to europe as if they were objects. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. member states and institutions are already working to strengthen and implement them. but they need to be redefined, they need to be reviewed, so that we can respond in the best possible way to the needs of citizens and to the challenges of the future. the two axes on which we are going to work are development, including the energy sector, and security, including the definition and management of european maritime zones. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i remind you of what has been heard in our chambers since 2004, when i was a member of the european parliament: europe must finally respond to the problem of energy insecurity. i would also like to mention something which has always been a central theme of european policy: european enlargement! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the environment, the environment and the environment policy. and here we are interested in being practical and efficient. the accession process of the countries of this region has gained a clear momentum over the last two years, thanks to the accession of croatia, the opening of accession negotiations with montenegro and the granting of candidate country status to serbia. these developments show that enlargement is proceeding, and that it is taking place in a period of transition for the union. the greek presidency will therefore approach enlargement dynamically and on a case-by-case basis, with the aim of promoting the accession process of each of the countries concerned, according to their performance and specificities. i would remind you that the basic principles and mechanisms of the 'thessaloniki agenda' continue to guide the region's path towards european integration. the european agenda for the coming months will include strengthening our relations with europe's major strategic partners, both in the west, across the atlantic, and in the east and the far east. here, our economic relations with them must be given a new impetus. the fight against recession is not the only reason for this, but it is also the reason why europe must play a leading role in international developments by helping to shape global trends. still, our influence in our circle. we need a region of stability, peace and development. where we will radiate our values and principles. where we can offer our help to those who need it. but we will also enjoy, together with our neighbours, the benefits of stability and peace. so above all we need two things: the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act. and to become the beacon of stability and growth, of competitiveness and democracy, of civilization and prosperity. after all, that's what the rest of the world wants from us. the greek presidency will certainly not do these two things in the next six months. we have to do it together in the next few years. to stimulate europeans' pride in their union and to enhance the international profile of the european example. dear friends, allow me to conclude in english. as a political union, a single market and even an aid donor, europe is a superpower with a global vision. of course, sometimes we are all consumed in our everyday problems or disputes, thus losing both the big picture and our optimism. let us distinguish the essential from the trivial. let us look back at our past and realize how far we have come. deep in their hearts, the europeans always wanted to come together, one way or another, but they often ended up in bloody wars among themselves. in recent decades we have undertaken the most ambitious endeavour in human history: to have so many and such different peoples converge, of their own free will, in freedom and democracy. two generations ago, the dream of a united europe seemed unthinkable. one generation ago, this dream still seemed difficult and distant. yet it has now been realised to a greater extent than anyone ever expected. next, let us look inside ourselves: small states and big states alike, we all know that in the contemporary world we can achieve much more, and achieve it much faster, if we are united. all of us together can unlock our economic depth and our geopolitical weight and can play the leading worldwide role europe deserves. all of us together can better safeguard our security, protect our democracy, advance the prosperity of our peoples and project our cultural values to the rest of the world. our union is not a luxury. it is a vital necessity for all of us. lastly, let us look around us. we see turmoil emerging and major challenges appearing, almost everywhere. we can better respond to such challenges if we are united. we can better stand in the face of world turmoil if we grow even more united. to put it bluntly: united, we can export stability and security from europe to the rest of the world. separated, we will only import insecurity and destabilization from the rest of the world into our own house. no matter which way we look at it, no matter where we look for guidance or for inspiration - within ourselves or around us, back in our history or ahead of us in the future - what we need is more europe and a better europe. the best response to the current crisis is again: more europe and better europe. and the rest of the world also expects from us more europe and better europe. a united europe is not just some administrative bodies, some institutions or the bureaucratic procedures and technically complicated regulations. primarily, 'europe' is us 'all of us': everybody in this chamber, all european citizens who voted for us and sent us here. all of us, debating and sometimes disagreeing; all of us working hard for europe and enjoying the fruits of the union. europe is the heavy historical heritage which we all, collectively, carry on our shoulders. europe is the common cultural root and expression of our societies, the values of freedom and human dignity, social justice and compassion for all, progress and democracy across borders. europe is the future of the generations to come, of our children and those who will come after them. it is precisely this common future that we are shaping today. and it is this future that unites us, perhaps more than anything else. we are moving ahead step by step. sometimes we make mistakes, pause, correct them and take it from there. but we have gone far enough ? we have progressed more than any of the previous generations could imagine. by overcoming our recent crisis, we are moving even more decisively. remember the example of my country. greece suffered, and is still suffering? but we are now standing on our feet we are proud, we are holding our ground and are returning to normality, and by doing so we are proving to everyone that europe works and that europe can make it. by defending our destiny as a nation, we have also defended the future of europe, every step of the way. dear friends, europe started as a legend about a beautiful princess, seduced and kidnapped by an ancient greek god, who fell in love with her and transformed himself into a white bull to approach her. then this legend evolved into an epic story, full of glory as well as drama. and then, europe evolved as the cradle of human history, the source of culture and civilization across the continents. now it is transforming itself yet again: through inspiration and innovation, trial and error, successes and failures as is always the case in history. now europe is being transformed, not just into a common institutional framework for all its countries, but into a common identity and a common conscience for all its peoples. so does europe move ahead. not without problems, not without obstacles to jump over. but make no mistake: our united europe moves forward, to its destiny. and you, its elected representatives, are europe's heart and europe's soul. (applause from the left)
president of the commission. − mr president, prime minister, honourable members, first of all let me very sincerely congratulate you, prime minister, for your very inspiring words. listening to you i thought that europe not only owes much to ancient and classical greece – without greece, european civilisation would simply not exist as such – but that we are also going to owe a lot to modern greece for the great example of courage, determination and commitment to our europe that you personally, and the people of greece, are setting these days. it is, i believe, a fitting coincidence that we end this parliamentary term under the presidency of greece – a country that has been the focus of so much political energy and public attention during this mandate and that, in the end, has emboldened us to do all we can to fight both the root causes and the social consequences of the crisis. let us not forget that some people, not so long ago, were predicting that greece would exit the euro and that greece could even leave the european union. in the more apocalyptic scenarios, some people were even predicting the implosion of the euro and, eventually, the disintegration of the european union. the fact that today the prime minister of greece, with his strong european commitment and pride in the commitment of his country to europe, is here standing among us, launching this new presidency, proves that the prophets of doom were wrong. the resilience and determination of the greek people are far, far greater than the scaremongers were ready to foresee. greece’s own experiences since the beginning of the crisis make it even more determined to make a success of this presidency. the commission and the greek presidency are united in not being distracted from the real agenda we have in front of us. we must stay focused on delivering concrete results for the growth and jobs which europe’s citizens need. greece has embarked on a very painful, but necessary, adjustment process, and some impressive results are already appearing: a government deficit that has been cut from nearly 15 % in 2009 to an expected primary surplus in 2013; recovering competitiveness, as illustrated by the steadily-falling current account deficit; and a vast programme of structural and public sector reforms. we expect positive growth throughout this year in greece. the courage of the greek people in the face of great hardship is bearing fruit and, as you well know, prime minister, the european commission has always stood by greece and the greek people. i thank you for your kind words recognising that. as you also know, when many others were expressing doubts and less commitment to greece, this parliament also always stood by greece and supported greece. honourable members, as i already told prime minister samaras in athens, the commission fully shares greece’s priorities: supporting growth and jobs through the deepening of the single market and boosting external trade; deepening the economic and monetary union and reinforcing the social dimension; improving the framework for human mobility and addressing the real problem of illegal migration; and promoting maritime issues. the list is long and the ambition is great, but based on the extensive experience of greece – this is the fifth presidency of the council by greece, and i at least have worked with three presidencies – i believe that, with the strong determination of the prime minister and the government, it will be a success. the focus of the presidency, strongly shared by the commission and the greek government, for the time left before the end of this legislative term is clear: we need to finish what we started and to deliver as much of our growth and jobs agenda as we possibly can. consistent and continued structural reform is the way to do this. whereas only a year ago commentators – and not only commentators but some politicians too – were predicting that countries would exit the euro area, around the turn of the year we started to see programme countries exiting their respective support schemes. ireland is now able to issue long-term debt at rates of only about 3 %, which is less than some other countries that did not need to ask for adjustment programmes and assistance. latvia, which – together with greece – has implemented one of the toughest adjustment programmes, has not only joined the euro area but currently has the highest growth rate in the european union. spain is exiting its specific programme for banks and is once again showing its remarkable dynamism and attracting new investors. portugal has seen positive growth since the second quarter of last year, and its unemployment rate and interest spreads are consistently going down. so do not tell me that structural reform is unnecessary or unproductive: the facts show otherwise. we need structural reforms so that we can address the real problems of competitiveness in many of our countries if we do not want to be losers of globalisation. yet we never said that this was only about fiscal consolidation or structural reform. we have always said (the commission has been saying it since at least since 2010) that we also need investment and to look at the social impact of the crisis. we need to keep up the investment measures necessary to make the reforms work to the benefit of jobs and growth. our number one aim is to restore employment: this is the biggest drama of today’s europe. we cannot say that we are out of the crisis while we keep these very high levels of unemployment; however, it is true that we have now exited a phase of the crisis where there were systemic threats to the euro area. this is why we need to resume investment in the economy. we still have a fragmented financial market where companies are paying interest rates not because of their intrinsic quality but because of the country in which they are located. this is an issue which i am sure deserves the attention of the european central bank. for terms of investment we need to use the european budget. for many of our countries and regions, the european budget is sometimes the only – if not the main – source of public investment. that is why we need to make the most of it. the european union budget is also an important tool for directing reforms and investments and leveraging loans for smes in close cooperation with the eib, as the european commission and the eib have proposed. we need to ensure that the new multiannual financial framework will deliver through the sectoral programmes, which will firm up the economic recovery. especially important is what the member states can do through the youth guarantee programme, now that they have adopted the youth guarantee. this programme was proposed by the commission and is now agreed. the focus now is on implementation. this has to be activated as a matter of urgency so that we can reduce youth unemployment; we cannot lose a whole generation. the greek presidency will also have other issues to discuss and in order to facilitate agreement in terms of the budget – for instance, on the own resources package and the start of the work of the inter-institutional high-level group on own resources created precisely between parliament, the council and the commission. it will be important, and will take effort, to deliver a balanced and successful european semester in the current context. the timing of the elections means that there will be very tight deadlines between the publication of the country specific recommendations by the commission and the european council at the end of june. we will need to work together in a constructive spirit to make sure the process runs as smoothly and transparently as possible, as was, by the way, the case last year. the greek presidency has rightly stressed the social dimension of economic governance, since no one knows better how important openness and legitimacy are to the eventual outcome of a process of profound reform. our focus on immediate measures to fuel growth and jobs does not in any way detract from the necessity of continued reform of the underlying european framework and our common economic policies. as i stressed yesterday in this house, completing the european banking union is not just one of our main deliverables but also our primary duty before the elections. parliament and the council now need to do everything they can to reach a final agreement on the single resolution mechanism. like you, the commission would have strongly preferred a system fully based on the community approach, and we have been defending this. as parliament and the commission, we should now work together to ensure that the intergovernmental dimension is kept to the absolute minimum of what is politically necessary, and we should be vigilant in ensuring that the outcome remains fully compatible with, and upholds the primacy of, european union law. the european commission will contribute actively to finding an agreement before the elections, as we believe this is indispensable not only for the banking union but also for deepening economic and monetary union. we need to remain active on all fronts until the very last day and adopt as much of our legislative agenda as possible, especially proposals such as those remaining under the single market acts i and ii and the telecoms package, which should provide economic opportunities for years to come; accelerate the economic momentum of today with investments for growth under our new multiannual financial framework; and stabilise our economic foundations through further adjustment and reforms in order to remedy the gaps and errors that have become apparent over the years. in fact, as the prime minister has said, there is good news: the important progress made in last night’s trilogue on the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) is another step towards greater transparency and discipline in financial markets and another advance towards completing the comprehensive programme of financial reforms launched in 2009. at the same time, we need to continue working in areas that go beyond our efforts to remedy the economic crisis but are equally vital to demonstrate that the european union is capable of delivering the results our citizens expect: on data protection, which is so important for upholding our values and the way we want our society to function; on the rule of law, where this spring the commission will present a more robust mechanism to counter systemic threats that may arise in any one of our member states; and also on climate and energy, where the commission will come up with a concrete framework for the period up to 2030 and where we are determined to continue to take the lead globally. if you look at the new energy landscape emerging you will see that, for us to guarantee future growth and jobs, we will have to strike the delicate balance between sustainability, security of supply, and competitiveness. on these and other issues, the commission intends to work together with you, as long and as hard as possible, in order to get things done. with the date of what is possibly going to be a tense election coming closer each day, the political mindset in the months to come will often be unpredictable and political attitudes are in danger of becoming more extreme. we are seeing the rise of extremism from the extreme right and the extreme left. we must, however, make sure this campaign is an opportunity for more genuine debate about europe, not a festival of unfounded reproaches against europe. one issue in particular is already in danger of being subject to all kinds of populist rhetoric rather than objective assessment: the free movement of people in general, and of workers in particular, in the european union. the free movement of people is a fundamental principle of europe and of the treaties, and indeed one of the core elements that distinguish our union. free movement is an indispensable ingredient of european citizenship. it is one of the most popular fundamental freedoms with citizens across europe: when you ask people all over europe what is important about europe, the first thing they say is precisely that: free movement. it is also an indispensable pillar of the single market. without the free movement of people, it would not make sense to have a single market based only on the free movement of goods or capital. free movement contributes to economic growth and european competitiveness. let us be clear about free movement. the european commission as the guardian of the treaties will uphold this principle: it is a historic achievement, an advancement of civilisation, a true acquis of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. it cannot come as a surprise to anybody that the principle of free movement exists and is applicable throughout the union without discrimination, because we do not want a europe of first-class and second-class citizens. free movement is the result of decades of negotiations and agreements between the member states and also this parliament. it is in our law, and we should respect our common law. however, contrary to impressions created recently in national debates, it is not a freedom without rules. free movement is subject to european law, which has also been jointly decided by the member states in the council and by this parliament. these rules offer guarantees to citizens, and they also offer possibilities to the member states to deal with abuses. so, the member states are not only entitled, but also have the duty, to act if there is any abuse of this fundamental freedom. of course, as is the case in our democracies with national rules under national law, the implementation of european union law must be subject to appropriate procedures and, where necessary, to appropriate procedures of review and redress. this is why the commission supports national, regional and local authorities in managing this principle correctly, in particular in order to fight abuses when and where they arise. the commission published a communication last november even before these latest polemics and outlined five initial actions: (1) fighting marriages of convenience; (2) applying social security rules correctly; (3) making more use of the european social fund to promote social inclusion and fight poverty; (4) bringing local authorities together to help them learn from one another; and (5) assisting officials in correctly applying the rules on free movement on the ground. so let us work together in a constructive and objective fashion. let us not use stereotypes and myths. let us have a rational and reasonable debate. let us not give in to scaremongering and obfuscation. let us together preserve a precious good for the sake of all of us. it is good for europe’s competitiveness, europe’s markets, european citizens and all of us who enjoy freedom in europe and have an open idea of europe, and not a narrow chauvinistic idea of the protection of different countries. 2014 will see the first european elections since the entry into force of the lisbon provisions, which have so fundamentally changed the european institutions, not least in terms of the power and prestige of this parliament. 2014 will also be the year in which we commemorate the centenary of the first world war – a war which, as you know, started with events in sarajevo. yet, as the prime minister said, the countries of the balkans now see precisely in europe and the european union their hope for consolidating peace and democracy. this is a message we should be attentive to. from the european wars of the past 100 years to a european unification that has continued spectacularly with the enlargements of the last ten years, with all those memories in mind, i hope we will have a more profound european debate and that the european project will be more strongly defended than before. i hope mainly that mainstream political forces will sometimes be able to leave their comfort zones, and that they will no longer consider european unification to be given by implicit consent but will have the courage to explain rationally and with passion why we need a strong europe more than ever. whereas in the past, young europeans were killing each other in colossal wars, now – thanks to european integration – they will vote together to decide on their common future. what a difference! so let us make this vote for the european parliament another important moment to reinforce a true european democracy. by the way, these are two greek words: europe and democracy – another thing we owe to our greek ancestors. let us remember what is at stake, what the real foundations of european integration are, and what the dangers of disintegration could be. on that basis, let us work together to deliver the results that really matter with pragmatism; pragmatism, another greek word. i believe that, with this commitment to democracy and this pragmatic approach, the greek presidency will help make our europe stronger.
madam president, thank you, mr samaras, for your introductory words, but sometimes i have the feeling that you are a bit in denial. when i heard mr barroso, it was very clear that we all seem to be in denial. i will just refer to a number of data. if you just look at the recent gallup poll showing the approval of the eu leadership, which in greece was supported by 60 % in 2009, you will see that that declined to a level of 19 % in 2013. that is a huge decrease in the approval of the eu leadership. if we then look at the debt level of greece, we see that it is still at 180 %; unemployment is still rising in greece, standing at over 27 %, and youth unemployment is around 58 %. then, mr samaras, you say ‘we have been rebalancing our trade balance, we are back to zero’. yes, but how? by cutting consumption levels, that is how you are doing it. that is not the way. if we are not addressing all these kinds of issues, then what are we doing here? it was a kind of applauding machine at the beginning, but we have big problems, and i would expect greece to address them, because greece knows what mistakes we made. but what is greece doing? it is not welcoming the troika inquiry committee; it was not welcome last week, because it was not part of the party. also, there is no debate on a haircut on the bail-out loans, when we all know it is needed; and no debate on real, balanced social economic policies, instead of the austerity-driven obsession of right-wing politics. those are the issues to be addressed. and on climate, greece is still importing eur 9 billion of oil every year, so i would expect that greece to be a frontrunner in fighting for an ambitious climate and energy package. i also hope that mr barroso will do so, because up till now you have been getting compliments from tories like callanan. that shows how far down the wrong road you are heading now with climate and energy policies.
i would be grateful if mr samaras would listen and put his headphones on, because i have three tips for him. the question is whether his presidency will be an epic or a tragedy. i have three proposals for him to make this semester epic. first point, mr president. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. we see that the situation in the eurozone is still very uncertain. this is partly because of the skyrocketing debt of some countries, such as greece. yet he says: yes, the greek economy is going to grow. but what is the real situation in greece? what are the numbers? seventy percent of the greek middle class has disappeared. eight universities have closed in the last six months. cooking kitchens are in full swing. greece, mr president, is paying a very high price for remaining in the euro zone and the structural problems are not being remedied. because we see that the eurozone still does not meet even the basic conditions of an optimum currency area. one of those basic conditions is having exit criteria: the european council in brussels in december last year agreed on the way in which countries could exit the monetary area. and be aware, being outside the eurozone is not a punishment, quite the opposite! it is then that there is hope and that real opportunities arise, especially in combination with debt restructuring. then you can really fight economic malaise with monetary tailoring. so i would like to hear from the council president when he sets out those exit criteria, and how he is going to test them on greece. secondly, the negotiations on the new fisheries fund have stalled. as a result, dozens of dutch fishermen are not allowed to fish with the pulsars. these fishermen, who are innovators, have fallen victim to european bureaucracy. this is absurd! the president of the council must start these negotiations quickly and bring them to a successful conclusion. thirdly, unfortunately, the european union has been negotiating accession with turkey for many years. strange, because this country is mostly outside europe. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the cyprus question is also at a standstill. my request to mr samaras: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i would like to hear your reaction so that your presidency can truly be an epic.
madam president, first i too would like to congratulate prime minister samaras for the work he has done for the greek people and also for the european union. this experience should help make the greek presidency a success, but it will not be easy. we all want the banking union up and running as soon as possible. this is crucial in order to speed up economic recovery, but the council created major obstacles on the last legislative file in the single resolution mechanism. what started as a legal concern of one member state has now resulted in splitting the fund and in a complete overturn of the governance of the resolution mechanism into an overly complex system, leaving crucial decisions up to the member states. this will seriously undermine its effective functioning where bail-in needs to applied, because the banks have to pay themselves. it will also not assure equal treatment of banks, irrespective of the member states in which they operate, including equal treatment with regard to the resolution fund. moreover, because of that, it will not break the link between banks and sovereigns. following what president daul and others have said, this parliament does not trust banking resolution subject to the political bargaining of member states. therefore we cannot support a bad deal. prime minister samaras, you know the clear position of this parliament, and if you also want the file to be concluded before the european elections, you have to wake up the council. you have to get an ambitious mandate for the negotiation and you have to get it soon, in order to get it completed before the european elections.
mr president, first of all congratulations to the greek people on all that they have achieved so far. you still have a lot of work ahead of you, but the greeks will get through it. i will continue in english. the challenges for greece are not only in the area of getting the economy back on track but, as guy verhofstadt said, also in the area of cleaning up the political culture and ensuring that there is a free and pluralistic press, which is essential for a democracy. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and what will it do about files which are stuck, mr samaras files on data protection, the horizontal anti-discrimination directive and the transparency regulation, which have been stuck for many months and years? finally, i would like to know whether the council can give some clarification on the state of play of the negotiations between the member states and the european commission and the united states concerning the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca).
the free movement of persons is a fundamental right, but all fundamental rights are subject to suspension, as the european commission has indicated in response to my questions. that is, when there is an emergency. the free movement of capital in cyprus has been stopped. if the collapse of a bank in cyprus is already an emergency, why is the out-of-control situation with internal mass migration not? millions of people move from country to country. the problem of housing, integration, training and the so-called 'benefit tourism' is everywhere. social systems will succumb to european rules if they grant rights where there are no duties. countries have been admitted to the european union that were not ready for it and that has led to the current problems. in the view of the european commission, it is high time that this situation was addressed by suspending the fundamental right of free movement. but to do so, the member states must take the initiative to protect their own social systems and their own people. and they have every right to do so, mr president.
two years ago, we had the first debate here on the malicious rhetoric surrounding free movement. the european parliament then took a hard line against prime minister rutte of the netherlands for refusing to condemn the stigmatizing poland checkpoint. rutte then promised to come here to debate with us. since then, it's actually only gotten worse. minister asscher is raising fears of a flood of romanians and bulgarians, when research shows that these fears are unfounded. secretary teeven is scaring people into thinking that social security is being abused, when research shows that fear is unfounded. i am already annoyed when opposition parties take a walk with the truth. but when government officials knowingly spread fear among their people with untruths, that is downright abhorrent. we still haven't seen prime minister rutte here. i call on him to keep his promises and to come to the european parliament at last, because, to my great regret, there is more than enough reason for this.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her words and her proposal. it is good, but, frankly, not good enough. we have known for many years – way before the snowden revelations – that safe harbour was faulty and that it provided no more than a symbolic protection. it is not providing any protection for european citizens, but only legal coverage for companies processing data between the eu and the us in the knowledge that they are violating eu rules. because we did not want to make trouble for those companies caught between two conflicting jurisdictions, we have tolerated the situation for many years. we have asked the commission repeatedly, for many years, to come up with a solution, but the commission did not act. as a matter of fact, this famous evaluation of the safe harbour arrangement – because it is not actually an agreement – came, i think, two years after the deadline. so why now give more time to the commission and to the united states to come up with a solution? we know what the problem is. we know it does not function and, quite frankly, i am also losing my patience with companies. as i said, we have tolerated the situation for many years in order to give them a break, and what have they done in return? they have mounted a massive lobby in order to further water down data protection standards. as far as i am concerned, we should suspend the safe harbour agreement today. maybe that will create the necessary sense of urgency for the commission, the us administration and the companies to start working on a serious solution, because it is about time this house and the commission stood up for the rights and the protection of individual eu citizens. these should take precedence over international relations and even over business interests. it pains me to say this because i am a market liberal, but it is time that companies also took responsibility. in conclusion, i expect the commission to suspend safe harbour today and make sure that we get an adequate solution soon, before the elections.
we had a debate in this chamber earlier this afternoon on the free movement of persons. this is a very important point in the european union. a person who is a citizen of one of the member states of the european union can move and settle freely anywhere. that is something we must cherish in the european union. the right to grant citizenship is a prerogative of the member states themselves. no one will dispute that. the whole point is simply that malta has recently given - and other countries have given - a sobering interpretation of citizenship. i personally believe that citizenship should not be for sale. it must depend on what the personal relations of the person are with the country concerned, what the personal relations of the person concerned are with the citizens in that country. you can all make arguments, but there has to be a personal connection to that country. buying citizenship without ever having set foot in the country in question is, in my view, clearly wrong. malta is the most recent example. there are also examples from other countries and they can all be interpreted differently. i think that a clear distinction should be made between citizenship and residence permit in a particular country. there is much confusion about all this, but there is an increasing tendency to put certain privileges up for sale. the commission's reply, or the commissioner's introduction, was a strong response in my view. but i think it should be put on paper and there should be clear guidelines for the member states on what is acceptable in the european union and what is not. and it must be clear that buying citizenship cannot be acceptable.
mr president, it is becoming a ridiculous spectacle that the european parliament is meeting again on something that really has nothing to do with it. this parliament calls it a problem that countries use their sovereign right to issue passports for any reason. mr president, this is not an inverted world, but an inverted universe. the problem is the open borders and the terrible schengen agreement. without these regulations, this debate would have been unnecessary. this parliament sees a so-called problem which it cannot solve - fortunately - but does not look at the solutions it can propose. the next elections will therefore be about whether we want a federal state with a federal government, which can do that, or whether we accept that the treaty organization, the european union, is collapsing. i've noticed the latter for a long time. many dutch people are already completely done with the eu. the comments of mrs reding indicate that the euro-philists see a passport as an eu passport and not as an important sign of nationality. this elitist meddling will not stop. my party wants the netherlands to withdraw from the eu under article 50, and this debate only strengthens that case. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. it remains the prerogative of the member state itself to issue visas, residence permits and passports in any form. what you're dealing with, of course, are those golden visas from your government, and they're probably given to people who invest a lot. but let's be clear: if we had been talking about visas and passports for people coming here as refugees, or as asylum seekers, you would probably have reacted very differently.
nationality is for sale. residence permit for sale. do member states really want a situation where a rich russian can land his private jet to buy an eu passport and a boat refugee can arrive in his shaky boat and be allowed to return? how can we justify denying the free movement of persons to people who are entitled to it as eu citizens, while passports with price tags are sold at another counter? i'm really worried. of course, member states are themselves in charge of the access to their nationality. the only difference is that this has a direct impact on the rest of the member states. at the same time, it is also a ticket to other member states. that's what we agreed. obtaining citizenship should be based on objective, clear criteria, not on the thickness of your wallet. what will the council do to improve the arrangements so that member states can deal with this in a responsible manner? and how can the european commission help?
president. - i agree with mrs reding that citizenship should not be for sale. it's actually a very strange idea that you can buy passports. we as politicians must take nationality seriously and not play the populists again with this kind of action. passports are not for sale. and we all know - and i say this to mrs gomes - that there are of course countries which have investment schemes where you get a temporary residence permit. a lot of countries in the european union do that. but there is a fundamental difference between a temporary residence permit with conditions attached and the mere purchase of a passport, as is threatening to happen in malta. mr president, things have gone very wrong in malta. at first, we didn't know anything. it was classified, no public lists. now we know more about the conditions of the social democratic government. but the fact that you don't have to settle in malta is still a very strange thing, of course. you buy a passport in valletta and you settle in berlin or paris. of course, that has nothing to do with nationality. then, mr president, cooperation within the european union entails obligations. article 4 of the treaty states that member states should cooperate in a professional and confidential manner, i.e. not act as "einselgänger" on such sensitive issues. in conclusion: i agree with my colleague jan mulder of the alde group; i think it would be advisable for the commission to establish uniform, transparent conditions throughout europe for a temporary residence permit for investment purposes.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in serbia, and we are therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in serbia is not further aggravated. the first risk is the threat of widespread social unrest in serbia, indeed in the whole region. the world bank warned in 2012 that this could happen if food prices and unemployment continue to rise. given serbia's economic dependence on the eu and the adverse effects of the european financial and economic crises on belgrade, i would like to hear from the commissioner how brussels intends to take responsibility for the growing impoverishment of the serbian population. it is a serious problem. the second risk for serbia lies in the problematic political assertiveness of its deputy prime minister aleksandar vučić. does the commissioner recognise this danger to the shaky structure of democracy in serbia? concentration of power in the hands of one man, notably a former pillar of the milošević regime, should not be ignored by brussels for the sake of its kosovo concessions. commissioner, if possible i would also like to receive a written reply to these questions from you at a later stage.
mr president, i am very happy that serbia is taking its next step now, and i hope serbian politicians will grasp this opportunity with both hands. reform can be such fun; it can be so good for everyone in society if properly implemented. serbia can take the opportunity to reform its judiciary, improving the life and rights of all involved: the judges, the prosecutors, the victims and the perpetrators. serbia can take the opportunity to improve its human rights, including everybody in society: lgbti people, women, minorities and roma people, thereby improving their economic growth, their employment prospects and their fight against poverty. it can even be good to keep visa-free travel, because eventually the only way to prevent ethnic minorities from asking for asylum is to give them a proper and good future within the country itself. serbia might take the opportunity to improve social dialogue, fighting corruption, fighting cartels and ensuring business independence, so that it will be fun to create and operate a business within the country. i do realise, however, that it is not only fun to reform. there are quite a lot of people – some with considerable power – who are profiting from the current status quo and do not want much reform. there will be resistance. i very much hope that the serbian government will face this resistance head-on and will overcome it. the best way to do that is to gather support from those who want the reform and who really want serbia to go into the future and into its european future.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, before i make my point i would like firstly to state here that i give my support to spanish women, who are eu citizens like all of us and are entitled to equal treatment. with regard to the point concerning subsidiarity, i believe the epp is being slightly hypocritical here and applying double standards, because this house adopts many resolutions on a wide range of issues in which we have no competence. i remember an epp rapporteur who once did a report on the rights of circus animals – so we cannot talk about the rights of spanish women, but we can talk about circus animals! the epp supports the so-called ‘alliance for families’, which is understood as families in the conservative traditional sense. so is that an eu competence? you are applying double standards, and i do not like it. as the commissioner rightly said, sexual and reproductive health rights are part of our national health systems. we have an eu public health strategy, but sexual and reproductive health rights are a glaring omission. why? why can we talk about alzheimer’s, obesity or colon cancer but not about the things that affect us every day and that are so important? as regards the spanish government, i really wonder if this is the most pressing problem the it has to solve these days. have you not got anything better to do? is it true that spanish women have massively resorted to abortion because it was legal? it is a well-known fact that in countries where abortion is legal, the abortion rates are lower. finally, if you think that women are competent to decide on something as important as having children and raising them, or if you think women are competent enough to run, say, germany or the imf, then surely they are competent enough to decide about their own bodies and their own lives. let us give support to spanish women.
blue-card question. – i would like to understand what my colleague mr paksas means when he says that the rights of parents to raise their children according to their own convictions are being restricted. i would like to know how the rights of parents are restricted by giving the right of choice to women. nobody is obliged to have an abortion; nobody is obliged to use their access to family planning methods. how are the rights of parents restricted by giving more freedom and more choice to women? in conclusion, mr paksas, i am so glad that i come from a country where abortion is safe and legal and people like you do not get to decide over my life and my body.
madam president, i should first like to thank the commissioner for his ability to focus the debate, even if we are now moving a little further away from it. health is a fundamental right which must be available to all. europe must take pride in upholding this right to health while respecting beliefs and behaviour, but we must focus in particular on the fight against maternal mortality and against genital mutilation. i don't want it to be a caricature, with the good guys on one side and the bad guys on the other. it is the same in political groups: there must be no caricature. i would like to remind you that in france we have had the veil laws for 38 years, which have ensured a perfect balance between respect for life, respect for women and the right to health. mrs veil was a very great health minister and she was the president of this parliament for the epp. i am surprised that, 38 years later, we are still capable of such behaviour, such restraints, such disagreements, when there are balanced texts that could bring about a consensus. that is what i want, madam president.
yes, mr president, i have a point of order. i appeal to your presidency. we have a good practice in this house that we refrain from displaying all kinds of pamphlets and other documents. i see on that side a series of leaflets now being hung. and a lot of them in places where there are no members at all. so my question to you, mr president, is this: would you like to maintain that good practice and have these pamphlets removed? thank you, sir.
mr president, i will begin by raising a point of order. i repeat what i said in my point of order, namely that the way you allow all kinds of bills to be displayed in this chamber seems to me to be contrary to the use of this house. i would ask you once again to put it to the conference of group chairmen, for example, to draw a clear line on this matter, because sometimes this is allowed and sometimes it is not. i think that's a vague policy. so i ask you to take that back again and clarify it. now for my contribution. i think that life deserves protection after birth and before birth. and i know very well that pregnancies can be difficult and have risks. i've experienced that in close quarters. and then i think it's good to have family and professionals and friends to help you do that. but we did discuss the estrella report here in december and the majority said: this is not a matter for brussels, this is a matter for the member states. so, mr president, i wish the spanish delegates in madrid much wisdom in choosing life, and i do so out of the conviction that life is given and deserves protection. (the president agreed to answer two 'blue card' questions) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. i would like to thank the green group for its question. i also see it as a full support for the point of order i have just made, because there is a lack of clarity about these flags. so all the more reason for us in the conference of group chairmen to reflect on the way in which all sorts of statements are made in this chamber, whether with pamphlets or with flags. so thank you for your support. all the more reason, mr president, to discuss this again in the conference of group chairmen, because there is too much confusion on this point. you can have it one time, you can't have it the other. and let's take those flags right in there. that's a good point. thank you for your support.
madam president, i was six years old when i first demonstrated for the right to choose. my mother and her generation fought for, and won, autonomy over their own bodies. i thought that these rights, once they were won, were safe for my generation and that of our sons and daughters, and that we could go on to fight for other rights that we have yet to gain, such as equality in business leadership or equal parenting. how extremely depressing it is to find that this is not the case. the spanish plan for a restrictive abortion law is a huge setback, not only for spanish women but for the fight for women’s rights everywhere. it means that this fight will never be over. we will have to keep on defending every right forever. i wish we did not have to, but if we must, we will fight. i want to assure my spanish colleagues that they are not alone. they have the full strength of all progressive forces and of the women’s rights movement behind them, and we will do everything in our power to make sure that every woman in the eu gets and keeps the right to decide.
- a writer. - the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products (rapporteur: mr de gucht) it is difficult for us to deal with dictators who abuse their citizens, but we can deal with abuses caused or aggravated by multinationals through european initiatives. for example, in this case. the minimum wage in the cambodian textile sector is only a quarter of what a living wage should be. women and girls in the textile factories are thus unable to support their families. exploitation is a form of violence and part of the unrest in cambodia is because of this exploitation. european initiatives supported by the german and dutch governments are working towards a living wage in this sector. we can force european retailers to incorporate sustainable and humane production into the price of their clothing. that's where we can make a difference. in the sugar cane sector, the second subject, we see a huge increase in production in cambodia and laos. people have been driven from their land for that. expulsion is violence. that sugar is used for lemonade, as for coca cola, but also for ethanol, and as long as we're still adding in our tank, we're involved in land disposal. the last thing i would say about that is ... (the speaker is interrupted by the president). if you will allow me one more sentence, mr president, the good news is that coca cola said, i'm not doing this anymore.
author. − mr president, we are very concerned about rcent violations of rights and freedoms in cambodia. the elections took place amidst irregularities and these must be independently investigated. in addition, demonstrations are violently crushed, leaving textile workers and others killed and injured. we call on the government to release those who were detained and imprisoned during demonstrations and to uphold the freedom of assembly. it is essential not only that human rights are respected but that the political opposition is not hindered in playing its legitimate role in cambodia. a diverse and inclusive political landscape is indispensable for the country’s development, and the eu itself must assess these recent developments in the context of the generalised system of preferences (gsp). we must urge european and international companies with production processes and production lines in cambodia to pay people a living wage. hun sen’s government should at least respect its own constitution and the international treaties it has signed up to. a few words on the situation in laos. we are still very concerned about the human rights situation there, and we urge the lao government to immediately disclose the fate of social activist sombath somphone. they must bring to trial and punish those who are responsible for forced disappearances.
author. − mr president, while already facing multiple challenges in most countries in the world, lgbti people have recently been faced with a wave of laws criminalising their identity, speech and behaviour – in other words, restricting their human rights. it is all the more disturbing that in this parliament it is still difficult to get a number of members to condemn the threats to lgbti peoples’ human rights at all. i believe that is the shame of europe today. the fact that an even greater number of members in this house is reluctant to condemn russia and its stance on lgbti people during the olympics is equally disturbing and disappointing, especially in the face of so many concerns that our citizens relay to us. when governments like that of my home country, the netherlands, show their true colours by sending the most prominent delegation possible to attend the winter olympics, let us clearly say: mr putin, being gay is not a choice, and speaking out about it is not propaganda. you should know this all too well. the olympic committee already regrets choosing russia for this winter olympics, and i can say i too am quite sorry. i believe that this house and all of us individually must make sure that we are part of tilting the balance of respect for the rights of lgbt people to the progressive side. that is a responsibility we share, because lgbti peoples’ rights are human rights which we must safeguard.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, right now all eyes are on the olympic games in russia – quite rightly so – but meanwhile the situation is also worsening on other continents. in uganda, where a month ago the anti-homosexuality bill was adopted, i had the privilege of meeting some of the activists from that country, who are among the bravest people that i know. they pleaded desperately for our help. in nigeria, where the senate adopted a bill to criminalise all lgbti activities and relations, we can still prevent that. in india, a supreme court ruling has made homosexuality a crime again. i had hoped that the kind of development we have seen in india over the last decade would, logically, go hand in hand with more respect for human rights. but that does not automatically happen. the eu still has a lot to do itself to further the human rights of lgbti people, but we have enshrined equality in our treaties. we have a duty to do all we can to help those who are oppressed. the worth of the eu does not lie primarily in its single market or its economy; it lies in its values. our values of equality need to guide us in our relations with countries like uganda, nigeria, india and, definitely, russia. i call on the eu institutions to do all in their power to decriminalise homosexuality around the world and to further the cause of equal rights.
mr president, this is only one hurdle towards much-needed broader, eu-wide copyright reform and the completion of our digital single market. our goal was to give artists more influence and choice over the rights to their works. we managed this by forcing cmos to be more transparent, by giving creators a stronger role in the governance of the organisations, and also by allowing for non-commercial licences, such as creative commons. it is essential that collective management organisations pay creators swiftly. the commission assessed the value of royalties at no less than eur 3.6 billion in 2010. cmos should do what they can to find the rights-holders and should be proactive in ensuring good governance throughout. the second part of the directive establishes the criteria a cmo has to fulfil to grant multi-territorial licences for musical works for online use. pan-european licences will now be available. for this house, measures to protect the position of smaller cmos and smaller language regions were essential in preserving our much-valued cultural diversity. these proposals are only part of what needs to happen to match copyright management with the opportunities that the digital era brings. although the commission is, sadly, dragging its feet, i am sure the call for reforms from our citizens will only get stronger. this new directive must not be used to further delay the modernisation and harmonisation of european copyright laws.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, our citizens cannot understand why they are suffering from the effects of the economic crisis, while the criminals who helped to cause it are getting away with it. just look at the libor scandal. how many of those people are behind bars today? although member states have jail sentences for insider dealing and market manipulation, the level of sanctions varies enormously from one member state to another. i am proud that, after today, it will no longer be possible to get away with just a fine for these most serious financial crimes. today we are showing our citizens that those who caused the crisis, the criminals who became rich through manipulating markets, should – and now, finally, will – be punished. i am especially proud that my proposal to introduce a maximum jail sentence of at least four years right across europe was included in the final agreement. by introducing tough sanctions, we are ensuring that justice can be done. this is of the utmost importance for our citizens so that they can regain trust in the financial markets. this is much needed to strengthen our economies. we have taken the first step by introducing this legislation all over the eu. however, implementation is just as important. the commission has the task of ensuring that member states implement these measures in their legislation properly so that criminals are indeed punished. commissioners, there will now be a two-year period of implementation by the member states. we need the interpretation of serious cases to be the same all over the eu. we expect a thorough evaluation on the level of sanctions and we look forward to hearing you report to us in the european parliament on these crucial issues. above all, i would like to thank my highly esteemed colleague arlene mccarthy, commissioner reding, commissioner barnier and the lithuanian presidency for their excellent cooperation. this is also a very special day for me because i will not be standing in the forthcoming elections. i am very happy that we made it with this directive, and wish to thank you all.
in writing. - today i abstained on the lichtenberger report on monitoring the application of eu law, since i do not agree with the reference to the so-called ‘eu legal order’. the eu is not a federal government, and therefore it is misleading to speak about its legal order.
in writing. - the pvv strongly condemns all discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. the pvv believes that the fundamental rights of all, including of course lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender people and intersex people, must be respected. the pvv has therefore been a champion of gay rights since the party's founding. the european parliament is now calling for direct intervention from brussels. but brussels already has far too much power. the pvv cannot therefore support that. lgbti people should not be discriminated against. not in work, not in education, not in health care, not anywhere. but it is up to the countries themselves to arrange that. that is not up to the eu.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would also like to start by wishing elisa a swift recovery so that she can return to our negotiating team. there is a lot at stake, because europe urgently needs a banking union to have a safe and stable financial system. we need better protection from failing banks for taxpayers’ money and better access to loans for our businesses and households. this is crucial to speed up economic recovery throughout europe. commissioner barnier presented himself today as the postillon d’amour and we really need the commission to take that role, because the council’s position on the last building block of the banking union is creating major problems, putting the credibility of the single resolution mechanism at risk already in the first years. with the current slow pace of negotiations we might not get it right before the european elections. with the vote this week, parliament is putting pressure on the council to move substantially on key areas of concern. let me be clear: it could all be done under the current treaty, but i do understand to some extent the constitutional concerns of one member state with regard to paying bank levies into a european fund, that an intergovernmental treaty is needed for that. but what started as a constitutional concern over a specific issue has now resulted in a complete overhaul of the governance of the resolution mechanism. the system is overly complex, it leaves crucial decisions up to the member states and makes resolutions dependent on national resources. this will not work when a bank needs to be resolved over the weekend. therefore, substantial changes are needed because this could seriously undermine effective application of the resolution tools. we want to ensure that bail-in will be applied to make sure that shareholders and investors pay. but it should be equally applied to failing banks, irrespective of the member states in which they operate. there should be equal treatment too in regard, where needed, to access to the fund. here too, the councilʼs position falls short, because the fund is rigidly broken down into national compartments. this could even reinforce the damaging link between member states and banks, instead of breaking this. in the first years especially, there is a substantial risk of reputational damage for this new resolution authority. we cannot afford to allow that to happen. the single fund has to be up and running from the start and this cannot be achieved by simply changing ten years into five years. the fund has to be operational in the first years too. we will be firm but constructive in the negotiations, because what is at stake is completing the banking union. but we have to get it right.
mr president, the financial transaction tax is a tax on investment which the nederlandsche bank has calculated will cost the dutch economy four billion a year. and the commission, too, is now admitting in answer to my questions that this tax affects dutch pensions, but also purchasing power and the economy. and then the plan is illegal. the transaction tax should not be introduced through enhanced cooperation, because it has an impact on the whole internal market. the proposal requires private companies to collect tax money for other countries which is illegal. and it affects the economies of countries that don't participate - whatever they're not allowed to do. in conclusion, mr president, it is an illegal plan that affects the citizens, the purchasing power, the economy and pensions. but fortunately, commissioner šemeta wants to introduce it now in small steps, because that will apparently make it less illegal and less harmful. mr. president, can we please be serious for a moment? a bad plan is not to be implemented slowly, it is to be thrown in the trash very quickly.
president. - we have two major problems to discuss today. the first is climate change, the second is the far too expensive and unreliable energy supply. now the great thing is that we can solve both of those problems with the same package of measures. that means that even those who still believe that climate change is a myth should support this package, precisely because it leads to a reliable energy supply and cheap energy. let me start with the climate, mr president. if we want to stay within the two-degree limit - and we all support this - we will have to reduce our co2 emissions by 80-95% by 2050. if you just go through what commissioner hedegaard said, 40% in 2030 is the absolute minimum to finally reach that target. i would like to see a target that is a little higher than the 40%, but i would rather have a realistic target that everyone believes in and wants to achieve than an unrealistic one. president. - the next item is the joint debate on: energy. without energy conservation and renewable energy, climate targets are unattainable. even without climate problems, these measures are necessary, because otherwise energy is far too expensive. look at the enormous cost of importing fossil fuels. more than 500 billion euros a year. every day we send 1.5 billion euros to countries like russia for our fossil fuel starvation. and that dependence is only growing. and don't believe in fairy tales like the shale gas. it is not for nothing that an oil company like shell does not want to invest in shale gas in europe. there's no future in that at all. so the only real solution to get affordable energy in europe is through renewable energy and energy conservation. and for that, binding targets are crucial. that has been proved in the recent period. finally, mr president, and commissioner oettinger also mentioned that if there is anything that industry, both the energy industry and the rest of industry, needs, it is certainty and clarity about the objectives and not 28 different national programmes, but a european, clear, binding narrative. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, mr krahmer would have been absolutely right if we had had a well-functioning ets system. but at the current price of 5 euros per tonne of co2, it is obviously not competitive with coal or other polluting, cheap energy sources. if we had had the co2 price of 30, 40, 50 euros per tonne, there would have been no need for a subsidy of euros for wind, land or solar energy. it would have paid for itself.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would also like to discuss the issue of climate reduction, also greenhouse gas reduction and renewable energy and the ‘three targets’ discussion. let me start with the climate discussion, and this is a question to commissioner hedegaard. she is saying that this is ambitious but realistic, which is a strange combination, because it is difficult to combine. i think the problem is that you have been working so long on back-loading that you are now also back-loading climate action, because the only thing that the commission is proposing with its -40% is that it is a linear reduction until 2030 of 1.8% per year, and if we then need to go to -80% in 2050, you have to go three times as fast after 2030, or if you want to go to -95% you have to go six times as fast. so you are now back-loading climate action, and maybe on ets we were in agreement here, but really this is not ambitious at all and what you see happening already is business europe bashing this approach, so the only thing you did was to reach a compromise and it will be further watered down, so thank you for that – and that is a cynical thank you. then, the discussion on renewables and energy efficiency: this is more to mr oettinger, or maybe more to my british colleagues who always say ‘let the markets decide; give us a greenhouse gas reduction target and then the markets will deliver’. can any brits in this chamber please then explain to me why the uk government is working on a nuclear deal for the next 35 years, on a shale gas deal, on tax exemptions? if they really believe in a market, then why do they have these policies back home? this is just a british excuse to be against european action. i see some blue cards from my uk colleagues. thank you very much and i am happy to answer them. finally to mr oettinger: last week at the business europe day you were a bit unclear as to whether you were in favour of the -40% greenhouse gas action or not. can you, for once, be very clear that this is a united action of the commission and that you support the -40% greenhouse gas reduction, or are you changing your tune every single day depending on your audience? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i would suggest that my colleague read china’s five-year action plan, which proposes huge action to reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants and even stronger emission performance standards than we are discussing here in europe, because we still think that ets will also deliver. i would recommend reading that, but maybe it is more important to look at the european side: every year we pay eur 400 billion for imports of fossil fuels. maybe we need to start thinking economically-wise, instead of just looking at the rest of the world. economic policies and climate policies go hand-in-hand. it is about time that you adjusted to that new reality. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – that is an easy one, chris, because i am absolutely not proud of what my dutch government is doing. but, to be honest, the dutch government has been formed by labour and the right-wing liberals, so in that sense i do hope that the next elections will bring the greens into government so that we can finally work on renewables, instead of nuclear or shale gas, which is what you are going for in the uk. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well, first of all, german colleagues are already saying that all those numbers are not true. let me just say one thing about nuclear energy: if the uk tories believe so much in the markets, why then does nuclear need a 35-year price guarantee, which is double the current price of electricity? if you believe in the markets then you do not need that. so please stop that nonsense argument that it is the markets. going back to the german debate: the big issue is that if you look at the prices of renewables, which have come down substantially, you will see that this is mainly due to the german energiewende. all of europe is profiting from lower solar and wind prices now because of the german energiewende. so maybe instead of bashing them, you should send them a bit of a thank you. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – first, on the internal market, i think that concern about the current energy market in the eu, which is going in all different directions, is exactly why we need stronger european energy policies and therefore stronger guidance from the eu on which energy mix we want. then it is a political decision. what do you want? do you want renewables, or do you want nuclear? do you want to have coal? politically, i choose renewables, just so that the entire eu internal market can move in the same direction. i want to have that discussion, together with all the colleagues in the national parliaments, because i believe that economy and climate-friendliness should be at the forefront. therefore, in order to keep the eu internal market together, let all the 28 member states go together towards renewables. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for that question, ms hall. the only thing that i could probably add to your question – and this is more advice to the uk tories – is that it is maybe an unwise strategy to go for the only technology in the world which is getting more expensive, while being used more. it is called nuclear energy. it is a dead-end street.
mr president, today we are debating the commission's climate and energy policy. a terrible, harmful, costly and ineffective policy that must be abandoned as soon as possible. this is not just the pvv saying this, but now the european court of auditors is saying it too. this week, their analysis of eu environment and climate policy was published. that includes climate change, water, air, environmental issues, you name it. their conclusion? i quote: the policy was not effective because it was not sufficiently designed and implemented, the monitoring also lacked adequate output and result indicators for the projects, and there was insufficient and low sustainability of the projects. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0243 - c4-0173/97). the commission is messing around, it has no idea if it is working, and it is not checked afterwards. it's as bad as it gets. at the same time, european commissioners tajani and oettinger admit that current climate and energy policies are devastating to european industry. brussels is destroying our industry. energy is becoming priceless. that is why we shall vote against it.
blue-card question. – chris, i have just one simple question. if you do not believe in all those subsidies etc., why then did you draft the ccs report a couple of weeks ago, in which you want both a ccs target for 2020 and subsidies for ccs? why are those arguments suddenly no longer valid for ccs?
i would like to congratulate mr bach on the excellent result he has achieved. i am also pleased that an amendment by mr bach and myself has been included which focuses on dispute settlement. because a national enforcement body, as in the previous legislation, is only making a public statement and the consumer has nothing to do with it. he's got to take that to court. it is therefore important that there should also be independent dispute settlement which saves the consumer from going to court in an effective, fast and inexpensive way. the second point i would like to raise is this: we have had experience in the netherlands with this organ, but it has not worked because there is no level playing field. there should therefore also be an obligation for all carriers to become members of such a body. i am satisfied, mr president, and i hope that this will be maintained in the negotiations with the council.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. we've already had the single permit directive. i don't know the dutch word for it. we have something called the 'blue card' and this commission proposal is a welcome addition to its completion. i think i have to compliment mr moraes on the way he has conducted the negotiations. with patience and persistence he has managed to get a large majority for this proposal today. several countries initially objected to the commission's proposal, the so-called 'yellow card' procedure. it wasn't enough to stop it. but now that i look at the result, i think a lot of those countries can be reassured. countries always remain sovereign in their decision of how many people they want to admit or not. there is no pressure from europe to let people in. it is still up to the member states to decide. in addition, there is a great deal of flexibility in the legislation as it stands. the period of work permitted varies from five to nine months. moreover, it does not have to be in the calendar year, but in a 12-month period. so i think there is a tremendous amount of flexibility for the countries, which they will welcome. this also applies to the issue of a visa or residence permit. that is for the member states to decide. i too think it is important - and mr moraes has also stressed it and other speakers have also said it - that we are talking here about european values in the field of labour law. social justice is an important point in our legislation. we must ensure that workers have good housing, that they have the same rights as national workers and that they are insured against health costs. again, the same rule applies here. there is no uniform european rule. the rules of the member state concerned are applicable. it is important that employment agencies can also make use of this. we have, as i said earlier, built a very great deal of flexibility into the legislation. more importantly, we make all kinds of rules, but those rules have to be enforced. that is only possible if there are also certain sanctions for non-compliance. i think that's well arranged, too. so i hope that this house will approve this proposal today by a large majority.
the fact that negotiations have been going on for three years shows how politically sensitive this issue is. migrant workers work all over europe and in these low-skilled jobs they often work without papers and without protection. but governments refused to touch it, and politicians chose to look the other way. and if you look the other way, exploitation continues. this law on seasonal work provides protection, that is, if the member states are also prepared to set up very good labour inspection here. otherwise some employers might be tempted to opt for the cheaper labour force, the undocumented labour force. for the greens, this piece of legislation - the first ever on labour migration for low-skilled work - also sets the stage for further debate on labour migration, not in seasonal work, but in other low-skilled occupations. i think of the filipino nannies, for example. these women work seven days a week in europe. their services are well-loved, but they live in a twilight zone, for they are practically all working here without papers, and therefore without protection. and that puts them at a huge risk of exploitation. europe is ageing if we do not legislate on labour migration. then we shall see an increase in the number of people working illegally. and that seems unwise to me for our societies.
today we are discussing a european directive on the management of the migration flows of seasonal workers. but time and again the european commission has made it clear to me that labour migration from outside the eu is entirely a matter for the member states. and yet this proposal. we must have a system of procedures for seasonal workers from third countries, we must have complaint centres and we must have social legislation. these are all areas that brussels does not concern. the european parliament now goes further: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this is contrary to article 79 of the treaty which obliges the european commission to discourage illegal residence. the rapporteur's position is therefore incompatible with the treaty. it is therefore not only an illegal directive, it is also a redundant directive, because the member states are themselves legitimate, capable enough, and already have regulations for seasonal workers from third countries. it is clear that my party will vote against.
mr president, it was a privilege last week to be in a delegation to ukraine led by our colleague mr brok and to be on maidan square and meet the young and old people assembled there. they want to live in a decent country. that is the only thing they want. they want to be heard. they were disciplined and there were people speaking russian and ukrainian. they were united. so the old divide between east and west, russian-speaking and ukrainian-speaking, has become less and less, and we must support those people. it must be made clear to mr putin, let him also be addressed by this chamber, that the principle of ‘near abroad’ does not exist. it is unacceptable. the ukrainians should decide on their future, which can be either west or east, or it can be both. let them have good relations with moscow, good relations with the european union and the united states. it must be clear that the ukrainians, when deciding, have to be supported by the us and the eu. we have to work together, because i do not think that putin will just stop because of a debate in this house. we have, at least, to make sure that the west is one. let us help the ukrainians, because they have a great future, they have a european perspective and we should support them.
president, the ukrainian popular movement of the maidan must not only take up the fight against the brutal repression techniques of the yanukovych regime today. the same is true of the outright incitement against ukrainian movements and citizens who see the country's future as closer to europe. they are called "nationalists", "fascists", even "anti-semites", even in the western press. and to bolster these false accusations, provocateurs recently attacked even orthodox jews in kiev. i was pleased to hear this morning from insiders that the maidan itself has taken the synagogue in kiev under its protection. that's what the government should do! meanwhile, it is evident that a clear majority of citizens in western and central ukraine are choosing to join the eu, and not just for economic reasons. they are actually committed to the values that the current ukrainian regime tramples on its feet: freedom, the rule of law and democracy. the euromaidan therefore embodies a moral dimension. the scourge of corruption, clan politics and shameless enrichment by the president's entourage has led to an unprecedented mass mobilization. that is the only way to fight for a better ukraine. this high level of civic commitment, which is even life-threatening, deserves our full european support.
the european institutions - and therefore this parliament - are remarkably silent on the role of turkey in the syrian conflict. but not so the turkish media, if you follow them closely. and i will. that brings me to two urgent requests to commissioner füle. first, ask the turkish authorities for clarification on the fate of the two syrian archbishops who were abducted on 22 april 2013. their alleged abductor, abu bennet, has been in maltepe prison in istanbul for some time now, thanks to the close surveillance of the turkish secret services, which know much more about him. and my second request, commissioner: the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to clarify the presence of three al qaeda training camps on turkish territory in the direction of syria, which israeli general aviv kochavi showed in satellite images late last week. according to the turkish media again. these are two requests, and i would like to see a written response from you. i would like to send you the turkish media, if necessary, which contained these reports, which i have also verified through investigators.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, while i welcome the commissioner, i really wish the high representative, ms ashton, had been here herself. in egypt, even when governments have changed, repression continues, and some would argue this is the worst we have seen yet. now do not get me wrong. as a liberal democrat you will not hear me express a preference for going back to a political islamic regime that was authoritarian. i also do not want to see a military regime restrict people’s rights and opportunities under a different banner. the country must urgently make progress and move towards a better future. for europe our principles should be clear. but we must also be realistic. we do not have a whole lot of leverage and we have made mistakes in the past. so at least let us act according to our values and have the population of egypt in mind as our main focus. that is in our mutual interest as well. let us focus on the rights of minorities, whether they are coptic or female. today is international day of zero tolerance for genital mutilation. egypt is among the countries with the highest numbers – about 75% of girls and women are mutilated. the position of journalists: yesterday a dutch journalist was forced to leave egypt after being accused of membership of a terrorist network. and, of course, many egyptians have no such opportunity to return home to a free society with the help of diplomats. we must help ensure that they are not wrongfully imprisoned and that they can work and live in freedom. the question is really: what does the army have to fear from a free press and from activists like ahmed maher and the april 6 movement, from alaa abd el fattah and from the many, many other human rights activists that are now imprisoned and that should never have been tried by military courts in the first place? i am thinking of the journalists of al jazeera, mohamed fadel fahmy, peter greste and baher mohamed. civil society and a free press that can do their work must be an integral part of a democratic egypt if we actually want to see progress and no repression any more.
mr president, i have just returned from egypt. i have spoken to many people in cairo and in al minya. in al minya, dozens of churches have been burned by muslim extremists. in those burned churches were hundreds of burned bibles. i got one of those burned bibles. and the minister said to me: when you return to europe, ask for europe's support for egypt. the new egypt has become self-aware, it has a constitution that may not be perfect, but it lays out a very good line. the new egypt has a self-confident people who have already overthrown two dictators. and if mr sisi fails, he too will be sidelined. that is why i call on you, mr president: the european union must now support egypt, both politically and economically. that is the request i am passing on from egypt.
mr president, it has been said by a number of people here: the eu-russia summit last week took three hours. this is, in fact, exactly how cold the relationship between the eu and russia is. we have made a number of recommendations in a resolution which we adopted yesterday, which are not only better for european politics - if we are to speak with one voice to russia - but also good for russia to follow. mr. president, i understand that the relationship is bad. in the light of the events in ukraine, the disagreement over trade restrictions, the debate on human rights and in particular the sochi games, gay rights, etc. it's not good. i also note that after six years of negotiations we still do not have a new partnership agreement. and the summit didn't vote me in with any hope. but at the same time, russia is one of the most important partners for the union as a neighbour and should be so. not just for the eu, but for the whole region, for our neighbourhood policy. because it's good for them, but it's also good for us and for our neighbors. to achieve that, much more will have to be done. and it's too easy for me what mr stadler says about us also having to withdraw from the stock exchange. i wonder if he himself would be prepared to defend that to his constituents. what we need to do is to have an open dialogue - and then really sit down for a while - and discuss the problems with each other and see how we can work together to find a solution.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i have two minutes for three countries, so i will be short and blunt. regarding montenegro, the greens are happy with the emphasis on media freedom, but we are concerned about the attacks on journalists, especially those writing about corruption at a very high level. for a country negotiating accession, this is absolutely unacceptable. regarding macedonia, i would say this to the greek presidency: it is february and you have five more months to make history by doing two things. firstly, open negotiations, whatever happens with the name issue in any other arena. secondly, show yourselves to be gracious and wise by finally resolving this issue. we have submitted an amendment to speak out in support of greece. we all know that the only really viable solution is to give the country a geographical qualifier while using macedonian as an adjective. let us help things along, let us come out and say so. regarding bosnia: this report worries us. it deviates from previous bih reports. suddenly it mentions constituent peoples and citizens, as if there were two classes of people. it does not simply reflect the constitution. it introduces constituent peoples in, for instance, public broadcasting. furthermore, amendment 10, under which it is only at a state level that legitimacy would be called into question, is playing with fire. just consider the message that we would be sending out. if all of that ends up in the report, the greens will have no option but to vote against the end result. finally, i would like to mention a horrible incident this weekend when the lgbt film festival was brutally attacked in sarajevo. i would like to call on the bosnian authorities to condemn this attack in no uncertain terms, because that is the very least we may expect of a future eu member state.
mr president, i wish to welcome the students. as we could see during the protest in tuzla today, citizens are becoming increasingly impatient with the lack of economic development and the lack of a perspective in bosnia and herzegovina. the country stands still, while other countries in the region are moving forward. meanwhile, citizens are the ones who are suffering from unemployment, from corruption and from not being able to make use of their civil rights. for bosnia and herzegovina, the door towards the eu is wide open as a single country. that is why we expect all levels of government to combine their strength in order to speed up this process and to start improving the lives of their citizens as soon as possible. to begin with the upcoming general elections in october, we cannot call elections fair and free where not all citizens have equal rights of representation. that is a minimum requirement of democracy, a basic civil right. that is why the implementation of the sejdić and finci ruling is of utmost importance. commissioner, the people of tuzla, but also of banja luka, zenica, mostar, brčko, sarajevo and all other bosnian cities are looking to us. how can we help to fight corruption, to push for overall constitutional reforms? standing still helps no one – neither the people of bosnia and herzegovina nor those in the european union. (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. - madam president, every year around 500 million tonnes of cargo are transported on inland waterways, particularly in europe’s most densely populated and congested areas. this silent and energy-efficient sector makes an important contribution to the european union’s transport system. however, the sector is undergoing difficult times and structural changes are needed to enable inland navigation to fulfil its full potential. in september 2013, the commission presented the naiades ii programme to improve the quality of the sector’s operating conditions and six key areas of intervention: infrastructure, environmental performance, markets, innovation, jobs and skills and the integration of the sector into the logistical chain. for each priority area, concrete initiatives are listed in the naiades ii communication. for instance, under infrastructure, light bridges will be adapted to today’s vessels, particularly container transport. the parallel technical standards of the different river organisations that generate costs for the sector will become streamlined across the european union. training and recognition of the professions will be harmonised and adapted to today’s demands and make the professions more attractive, just to give a few examples. what is more, the first steps towards implementation of these measures are already under way. the commission proposals for making available the reserve fund will provide much-needed financing for modernising vessels and upgrading professional qualifications. the proposal for technical requirements for inland waterway vessels will eliminate the fragmentation of technical standards for inland waterway vessels by creating a single set of standards across europe. both proposals are under debate in parliament and council. together with the rapporteur, the commission is hoping that they will be adopted as quickly as possible. let me take this opportunity to thank you, ms wortmann-kool, for your very ambitious schedule and the good cooperation on those files. for each of the six key areas mentioned, the commission has already, in its communication, specified operational outputs with target dates and identified the actors responsible for their implementation. it is regularly following up the implementation with all actors in the naiades implementation group. i will keep this house informed of progress. in that context it is important that the private sector fully assume its prime role for improving inland navigation. much more can be done by the sector to improve cooperation, share information and foster integration of inland waterway operators into logistic chains. we will of course support the sector in its endeavours. your second question asked how to stimulate innovation to increase the environmental performances of the inland waterway fleet and, in particular, to help the smes to access finance. the commission has programmed a financial contribution of eur 20 to 40 million for waterborne vessels for the period 2014-2015 in the horizon 2020 work programme. overall, eur 6.3 billion are available in the programme for transport and, of course, support for improving the environmental performance of the fleet will continue after 2015. the connecting europe facility (cef) contains eur 26.25 billion for transport to be used, inter alia, to remove bottlenecks and create missing links in the inland waterways network and provide financing for new technologies such as lng. the connecting europe facility instrument will be used in conjunction with the cohesion funds, under which another eur 6 billion is available for transport. the commission is also investigating how to facilitate access to support the inland waterways sector in its future investments and green technologies. helping the inland navigation sector also means strengthening its smes, which represent 80% of the companies in the sector. stronger and well-functioning associations and cooperation structures are needed to strengthen the position of these smes and to help them make better use of the available funding from the european union and member states. there too, the commission will provide support, for instance by proposing to open the reserve fund to fund associations representing the sector or by identifying the best practice in cooperation. to conclude, the commission has put in place an ambitious programme containing concrete measures with a lasting effect on the sector. naiades ii will be implemented with money from the european union budget but naiades ii can only succeed if all actors join forces. the commission therefore calls upon all stakeholders including the european parliament to take an active part in the implementation of naiades ii.
president. - the resolution that parliament has drawn up is quite clear. we have made it clear in the resolution that inland navigation is in trouble because of the economic crisis, the debts that many have. and then there's the huge overcapacity. our resolution also sends a very clear message. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i regret that, because the present state of naiades is not adequate for inland navigation. the commission must really come forward with additional proposals in the coming years so that the sector can really be helped to move forward, also in a financial sense. the fine words of the white paper on transport must be translated into concrete action. at the same time, mr president, i would like to say: the sector itself is also on the move. more cooperation is necessary for survival. shipowners and organisations must join hands, stop bickering over competences and their own little kingdoms. if not, more and more sailors will be unemployed. the future of this wonderful sector looks bleak.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we feel a strong sense of urgency to complete the banking union before the european elections. that is why we have to confirm today our strong and united mandate for the negotiations on the single resolution mechanism, a mandate that has already been voted through with a large majority by the competent parliamentary committee. this plenary vote should serve as a wake-up call for the council. it was good that the greek deputy prime minister was present at the debate on tuesday where this broad unity was confirmed. this underlined the great importance the greek presidency attaches to this regulation. he clearly indicated the willingness to work constructively on a common agreement, but the greek presidency cannot negotiate when they do not get a substantial mandate from the ecofin council and there is a clear urgency – the markets are watching, so we have to get it right from the start. when we negotiated the stability and growth pact, we corrected an institutional shortcoming. we moved the supervision on commonly-agreed rules away from governments, giving more objectivity. in the end we both agreed, and this is what made the ‘six-pack’ a credible and good deal. but now the council is suggesting the reverse: leaving crucial decisions on resolving failing banks up to the member states. it is hard to see how this would lead to effective and efficient objective decision-making, let alone how this would work when a bank needs to be resolved within 48 hours. it could also seriously undermine the effective application of the resolution tools. we want to ensure that bail-in will be applied to make sure that shareholders and investors have to pay, but it should be equally applied to failing banks irrespective of the member states in which they operate. equal treatment, where needed, with regard to access to the fund is another area in which the council’s position falls short, because the fund is rigidly broken down into national compartments. this could reinforce the damaging link between member states and banks, instead of breaking it. the risk of reputational damage for this new resolution authority is substantial, especially in the first years. we cannot afford to let that happen. the single fund has to be up and running from the start of the single resolution mechanism through a swift mutualisation of bank levies, instead of 10 years of national compartments. a lending facility is needed for that as well. the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) voted in favour of a clear position for a single resolution mechanism with a truly single fund, where a bank can be resolved within a weekend – a system where the banks have to pay. our group really wants to protect the taxpayers from having to pay the bill again for failing banks. the council introduced an intergovernmental agreement – a temporary one – but we have grave reservations about this, as we do not believe in intergovernmental solutions unless we are convinced that it is absolutely necessary in order to fulfil constitutional requirements, and also unless we are convinced that it is legal. i have some understanding for the constitutional concerns of one member state concerning the transfer of contributions from banks to a european fund, but we cannot accept an intergovernmental agreement that takes out other crucial elements of the single resolution mechanism and leaves them to the discretion of the member states. the negotiating table is here in this house – not in the council building. the trialogues with the greek presidency are the only format for negotiating for this parliament, and i would like to welcome the helpful contributions made by commissioner barnier during the debate on tuesday. his initial proposal for a single resolution mechanism is the right basis; it shows the right way. we also truly trust in his insistence on a credible and workable system. we trust that he shares our view that an agreement is urgently needed, but cannot be done at any price. completing the banking union is the number one priority for the ppe group in the last months of this term. the single resolution mechanism is the final brick we have to add in order to restore credibility, to ensure a safe and stable financial system with better access to loans for our businesses and households, and to protect our citizens and their deposits from failing banks. the banking union is crucial to regaining trust and speeding up economic recovery. the epp is aware of the great responsibility resting on us. we want a deal. we will now vote on this dossier to achieve one important purpose: to give a strong signal of unity. our line that was agreed in the economic and monetary committee will get the full backing of this house. we are not modifying our negotiated position, but repeating our views, which were expressed by econ already in december of last year. but we are not concluding our first reading; we are keeping the door open, and this should serve as a wake-up call for the council. parliament is ready and open to accelerating these negotiations and achieving a deal before the european elections. we will be firm, but constructive in the negotiations. however, we cannot just accept any old agreement. completion of the banking union is at stake, but we have to get it right.
i do not support the ferrera report. i am against the second pillar of the banking union: a fund that is gradually evolving from national compartments to a common fund to rescue banks. firstly, the fact that the liability for the debts of weak banks is being wiped out in one big pile in europe is problematic. the unknown bad loan bill is deposited indirectly with the european taxpayer and bank customer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the banking union is also a step towards political union. this centralization of power is a principle my party rejects. the second argument is that emu cannot work properly because competitiveness and public finances are too different. a source approach is required: reforms, austerity, write-offs of bad loans on bank balance sheets, partial cancellation of unsustainable public debt and exit from the eurozone where necessary. finally, it is inappropriate for the european parliament to complain about intergovernmental decision-making. it is more suited to economic policy than the community method, since the treaties only give the eu the power to coordinate economic policy. that is not an exclusive or even a shared competence!
author. - mr president, several non-democratic measures have been taken by the thai government and have led to massive protests in a generally peaceful country. the government is putting aside its senate, as well as the constitutional court’s rulings on the amnesty bill and on the date of the elections. on top of that, a non-elected people’s representation has been proposed. such actions have led to outcry and protest, and responses have led to death and injury. the prime minister has declared a state of emergency. these very troubling steps have paralysed the country and the elections, as voting did not happen in all areas of the country and the law forbids the opening of the legislature when it is not 95% filled. without a parliament, no new government can be formed. this deadlock must end, by investigations into the violence and the prosecution of those responsible. all parties must show restraint and respect for the rule of law and abide by democratic principles. this includes a government that ensures free assembly and free expression. it should start by lifting emergency laws. we welcome the fact that the military has remained neutral and we call on it to continue to do so. we also welcome initiatives of dialogue and reconciliation by all those who have contributed, and stand ready to play any role that may help to overcome the current difficulties and help thailand onto a democratic track.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the conflict in transnistria risks being forgotten, when the problems – especially when it comes to access to education – do deserve our attention. we must push the self-proclaimed authorities to work with the osce and to end the politicisation of education. the authorities must also cooperate more constructively with the 5+2 negotiations and the russian federation should implement the judgment of the european court of human rights and stop violating the right to education. russia should also withdraw its troops in order to end the climate of intimidation and fear in the region. on our side, we should focus on visa liberalisation and the association agreement as well as free trade deals. improvements in human rights, economic modernisation and social progress will benefit the population as well as the authorities, and us. in parallel with this, we can do more to work with the european instrument for democracy and human rights with civil society and to facilitate access to information, education and free media. this could counterbalance the restrictions that the authorities have set in place.
blue-card question. – mr van orden, i was happy to hear you say that you were also concerned about interference from outside actors, such as saudi arabia, in iran. it was actually our group that proposed to refer to this concern in the resolution, but it was your group, as well as the epp, that did not want to refer to that. we must look at the broader context in the middle east when addressing the problems in bahrain and to make sure that we can overcome them, because we have worse crises to deal with. i just wanted to ask you whether you agree that this is a matter for concern.
author. - mr president, the unrest and human rights violations in bahrain will not be overshadowed by fancy advertising campaigns or the sponsorship of the world economic forum on cnn. anyone who looks more closely at bahrain realises that it is shameful that the royal family and the government have not managed to adequately address the human rights concerns and grievances of the population. let me stress that they do not need interference from either saudi arabia or iran in their domestic affairs. instead, the bici report, as well as the universal periodic review recommendations, should be implemented, full stop. we also identify a few other urgent reforms that must take place. we oppose forced disappearances and the use of special or military courts to try suspects of so-called national security crimes. clearly, doctors must not be hindered or see their work politicised. especially when it comes to juvenile detainees, bahrain should treat them in line with the un convention on the rights of the child, to which the country is a party. in this resolution we also call for a moratorium on the death penalty and hope it will be abolished. prominent human rights activists, such as abdulhadi al-khawaja and his daughter, zainab, have not yet been released, and neither have nabeel rajab or ibrahim sharif. once again we call for the release of all political prisoners and human rights activists. on a more positive note, i hope that the decision by the arab league to set up an arab human rights court in manama will serve as a catalyst and a reminder about the respect for human rights that needs to be guaranteed in bahrain and across the region. the sad thing is that, looking at the entire middle east, one would hope that problems in bahrain that are solvable will be dealt with once and for all, so that its ambitions on the global stage are not just economic or strategic, but are matched with granting the people of bahrain rights and opportunities and so that i, as an mep, can swiftly visit the country without being denied a visa.
it's very good that there's a deal now. i think we're all in on it. it's just that faith in politics is very, very important right now. i have to say that i found the road to this unprecedentedly long, that while there was a deal, it was intervened in twice by at least one particular member state and later also by a cluster of member states who did not think this deal was a good deal and who finally intervened. i think that this is a serious blow to political credibility and to the way in which the council, the commission and parliament work together. it is a good thing that there is a deal with a co2 emission standard of 95 grams per kilometre and a 95% phase-in; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it is also good that there is now finally a global test for testing cars and that the flexibility of one car having its windows removed and the other having its bumpers removed is over. consumer confidence in the car industry is very important and i think frankly that we have to take into account our deals and the way we do those deals in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, when we debate this year’s annual growth survey, we do so with much more assurance and trust than a year ago. we have not yet left the crisis fully behind us; however, thanks to joint and concerted efforts, we have overcome its most critical part. we are working our way out slowly but surely. unit labour costs are decreasing; current accounts are improving and, after 18 months of stagnation, growth has been picking up since early 2013. we are returning to healthier public finances, but we have not yet experienced a turnaround on the job market. however, this will come. it is the consequence of this development, but unfortunately it is always lagging behind. the first changes become visible when, for instance, you look at portugal’s figures. those who saw everything going down the drain, those who only criticised and made the maximum amount of noise, they were wrong. we can make it provided we do not slow down. rather, we must step up our ambition, because we have to continue with determination. this house has negotiated many important proposals in the past years and months. it will help to stabilise our economies and stimulate growth, and on behalf of the epp i would like to thank president barroso and vice-president rehn for the determination – the determination of your commission – which you have shown. you have rejected fatalism from many sides. europe has been in good hands and the epp also fully supports your approach in the 2014 semester. our group wants a strong commission, an independent commission. the best rules are of no use if there is no strong referee to implement them. today’s debate is the occasion to look at our member states and pay tribute to the efforts many courageous women and men have made. the reforms, for instance, carried out by the portuguese, the spanish, the irish and the greek governments deserve our respect. we are aware of the great challenges that the cypriot government is facing. let us not forget that many of them have only inherited the extremely difficult problems in their countries. they have shown courage and accepted the responsibility which voters entrusted in them. i would like to underline that a vital role for social dialogue is essential to achieving sustainable reforms. the cure is starting to bear fruit, it is paying off. the structural reforms are sometimes painful and we should never forget how many europeans are hit very hard without having the slightest responsibility for the problems of the past. but we have to solve the problems of over-indebtedness and lack of competitiveness. we have to think of the future, of our children, their jobs and their future. delaying reforms would cause even more hardship. therefore, i am sure we are laying the right foundations to give young europeans a brighter future and offer them jobs instead of debt. but we still have great challenges ahead. we have to beat the unacceptable unemployment figures. therefore, we have to unleash the investment potential, but we also have to step up our efforts for structural reforms with great ambitions. look at what happens in countries like france and italy. they also have to step up in order to achieve good results for all of us. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i can only answer with a question to you. do you think that the efforts the french government is putting into solving problems works for the people? it is indeed painful when you have high indebtedness and when there are problems from the past you have to solve, but what the ppe wants is real jobs, and smes can provide us with those jobs. therefore, we cannot just take the french approach, which will only lead us down the drain. solving the real problems: that is the ppe’s approach.
the interference from brussels is becoming more extreme. the netherlands already had to submit its budget for approval, but the european union does not go far enough. now brussels also wants to control our socioeconomic policy. our employment policy, our tax system, our social policy, our pensions. brussels wants to have a hand in everything. it's called economic policy coordination in eu jargon, but it's your pure planned economy. the european commission's unelected bureaucrats oversee the member states. countries that listen to the brussels dictates get money. it all leads to more control, centralization and waste of money by brussels. president. - the european union is at an impasse. but you know, there is an alternative that is much better for the netherlands than all this meaningless planned economy, an exit. the netherlands is leaving the european union. research commissioned by the pvv shows that an exit is good for the netherlands. an exit creates growth and jobs, because the netherlands can again determine its own budget, its own trade policy and its own immigration policy. an exit means that the netherlands no longer has to pay billions to the eu budget, the bailouts and the emergency funds. an exit will ultimately bring the netherlands many more growth and jobs and instead of being dependent on brussels, an exit will finally make the netherlands a free and sovereign country again. the netherlands must therefore leave the european union. an exit, and as soon as possible!
we've already got the fourth rail package in front of us. the european commission wants to intervene in the way member states organise their rail transport. countries have designed their railways to suit their own needs and circumstances, and this must continue to be the case. it is therefore up to the member states to make their own judgments, for example on how efficient or user-friendly the railway system should be, or how innovative or, on the contrary, how frugal. international cooperation on the railway has been taking place for years. let it remain above all a matter of bilateral cooperation. we do not need the european commission for that. the commission's tactic is the usual one: it is the commission which is devising problems and then taking action against the member states. it gives its opinion on the way in which the member states have organised their rail transport. it then conjures up its mantra of market liberalisation as the solution to every evil. mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is at a dead end. i would say: buy a one-way train ticket home!
thank you to reporters and shadow reporters for all the hard work. the commission proposal did not leave enough room and what is now in front is certainly an improvement for the member states. the aim was to provide better services to consumers, and the market can only be a means, but certainly not the end. flexibility is needed for member states to provide that service. it is therefore up to the member states to decide who is to drive on the rails and how, on fair terms of course. it is important for the netherlands, with a very concentrated market, a very tightly packed net, that the market can also remain together; i welcome the fact that the committee on transport has built in a possibility for national regulators to award contracts if necessary and not to follow a public procurement procedure. the netherlands has a very concentrated railway market with over 1 million people taking the train daily and it is important that that network can stay together. thank you for all your hard work, and i look forward to more consumer service.
i am sure that the system we are discussing today will help to achieve this, but i have two reservations. first of all, we must not pretend that this is a miracle cure. of course, very often the problem is not that there is no alarm, but that there are simply no ambulances available. according to a report yesterday, for example, there are calls in belgium, but the ambulances are simply not on time because they are too far away or because there is too much traffic. so there are all sorts of other factors that prevent emergency services from being on the scene in time, and not just because there's no automatic 911 call. i think that we should not pretend that we are giving a panacea for all traffic problems. if we really want to solve something, we might have to take a little harder action against drunk driving. secondly, we are dealing with extremely sensitive personal data. every time we make decisions like this, there's a reassuring saying: don't worry, it's only being used for this purpose, there's really no abuse, everything's taken care of. but we all know that in practice there is always abuse and there are always new and insidious uses for which the data are used. because let 's be honest . insurance companies, personal injury lawyers, police, intelligence agencies will no doubt find this information extremely useful. that is why my group has tabled amendments to allow citizens to decide for themselves. and if the system does turn out to be fantastic, it will sell itself! you don't have to force people, you can convince them! and so i would like to call on this house to support those amendments and for myself and my group that will be a red line to vote for or against the report.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives. and yet there is a hint of this proposal. the presentations to the imco committee showed that in most member states the 112 hotlines are not yet prepared for this type of automatic assistance and will not be for the time being. the 112 services are still very much inadequate, as we heard from the commission recently. if practicability is a problem, it is natural to leave it to the member states to decide whether and, if so, when to introduce such a box. but no, we have to go to a unit sausage again. so this is not about saving people's lives. the german car industry is ahead of its competitors in the development of the cabinet and is interested in rapid introduction. insurance companies find it most useful to obtain more data on accidents. and there are many other commercial applications in the making. and yes, the police are also very interested in the spy box. with others, like sophia in the field, i've suggested that we at least build in an on-off switch, so that everyone can decide for themselves whether or not to use this. but even that proposal has so far failed. and so we have a system that is a direct attack on the privacy of the motorist and a plaything of the industry. there 's only one answer to this: rejection of the proposal.
this ecall file is bad news for the public. the restrictions on consumer choice and the violation of privacy are now a fact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted. ecall is always online and transmits various data to a central hub. it happens in an accident, but it can happen outside the building. the device cannot be turned off. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it's unclear who owns the data, and no one has ever considered whether the data can be used in lawsuits, let alone be used in court. we have not yet discussed undesirable matters such as the possible misuse of data and the possibility that this legislation explicitly allows for the equipment to be used for other purposes in the future. the pvv is against the compulsory installation of the ecall spy box in cars. let the control over the purchase of the system remain voluntary and where it belongs, with the consumer.
i think it is always a good thing when three dutchmen speak in a row in the european parliament. well, that certainly gives you a good idea of our influence in this house. the number of road deaths in europe is still around 28,000 at the moment. that's a terrible number. we have a program to bring that number down to 20,000 by 2020. it's still an absurdly high number. in this respect, the ppe group strongly supports this ecall system, including its mandatory nature. we have been talking about it for ten years, as my colleague mr koch has said, and it is good that we are bringing this to a successful conclusion just before the elections. right now, only expensive cars have it, but we think it's good that all cars get this system and not just the rich people. the compulsory nature of the regulation is also reflected in the rejection of the switch-on and switch-off mechanism, which we believe is not in keeping with the regulation. the colleagues on the libe committee have rightly expressed concern about the privacy element. at some point, however, you have to ask yourself whether privacy should not be sacrificed to save lives. i would ask my colleagues on the libe committee to look for their strength in upholding the rules on privacy and not in blocking this ecall system. finally, mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the so-called open access platform, which directly concerns people outside the car industry who also want to influence the car. finally, the question also raised by mr de jong: is the 112 system operable in all countries? that does not seem to be the case. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" question. what is it? mr van de camp, your party always advocates strict respect for the principle of subsidiarity. that means that the smallest possible entity has to make the decision, and that is the individual citizen. what i don't understand is: i understand why you want to introduce this system and perhaps it will indeed save a lot of lives, but i do not understand why your party wants to make it compulsory and not leave the choice to the citizen himself. what do we gain by europe forcing people to do what it wants? if it is a really good system, then the citizen can be persuaded and not forced to do so.
"blue card" is the answer. you may know that in my spare time i am a motorcycle rider. and a motorcyclist knows that accidents are always in the corner. you can't predict that. if at any given moment you are driving on a dark road in one of the new member states and you hit your car off the road, there is no choice of turning on or off. then you want to be saved!
traffic safety is not promoted by a chip in a car. people still drive too fast and still get behind the wheel with a drink. and unfortunately, there are also many places in europe where ambulances don't have a half-hour drive time, but take much longer. the introduction of ecall is a gift to the automotive industry. it's strange that you have to have a mandatory ecall, but you could have a commercial one. and you can't just go with "don't touch the chip". we can see what's going to happen here. mercedes is making a deal with an insurance company and bmw is making a deal with an auto repair company. meanwhile, data protection is highly questionable. okay, the chip won't do anything unless you put the car against a tree, but it'll pull gps. it 's only a matter of time before the police or the secret service think: this is a way for me to track people or until a hacker is smart enough to arrange to track you exactly where you are. the greens would like to spend the money that comes with this on road safety, but real road safety and not fake road safety like ecall.
the proposal for ecall is an unpleasant combination of wishful thinking and a curious lobbying by the automotive industry. this is wishful thinking, as the usefulness of introducing a mandatory ecall is questionable. international studies have shown different results. figures on the reduction in fatalities and serious injuries with ecall are not hard to come by. and effective relief depends on many other factors, such as the response time of emergency workers arriving at the scene of an accident. the fact that road safety organisations and car manufacturers are joining forces on ecall also suggests this. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. because who dares to argue against road safety? if you take into account the considerable risks to privacy and the fact that real road safety depends on the driver's change of mentality, you will understand why i am against this proposal.
blue-card question. – i am basically going to put the same question to you that i put to our colleague, mr van de camp, and to which i received no answer. i am a bit confused here. all those parties that are always arguing against unnecessary interference by the european union are now calling for an obligation, something to be imposed on citizens. i am not arguing against the equal system. all i am saying is that the choice should be left to individual citizens. i would really like to understand why the ppe and the socialists want to put citizens under an obligation. what if i want to opt out as a citizen? why do you want to put me under an obligation? if the system is good, it will sell itself. i am leaving the choice to you, so why do you not leave the choice to me as well?
we are here again to discuss the so-called ecall system, a system which automatically transmits a signal to an alarm centre when there is an accident with the car. now, something has been agreed on this before, only it would have to be introduced voluntarily. but what happened? the public has no use for a snitch in your car who keeps telling them where you are. so the citizen justly left it lying around en masse. the commission has already done so. if the citizen does not want it voluntarily, we will simply make it compulsory. the euro-philists here are of course omnipotent and the citizens cannot think for themselves. but citizens can think very well and understand very well how the system works and just don't want it. what parliament is trying to do here, at least the commission and parliament, is pure elitist power politics towards the citizens. the data on the location of a car with such a system is always available. this is also shown by the fact that in the event of an accident the data can be transmitted with the direction of travel. there is therefore a continuous exchange of information between the cars and the security services. the citizen wants his privacy back and doesn't want the government to know where he or she is all the time. this system can never be so watertight that it cannot be misused or misused by the government. the argument that this will save lives, if it is made mandatory, is life threatening. i envision a next step where we just put a chip in everyone's head that alerts the security services if someone has a heart attack or stroke. then it really is helpful if they know where to go.
madam president, i would like to express my appreciation of those people who do not accept realities, people like mr landsbergis, like lech wałęsa, václav havel, lászló tőkés. they did not accept the reality that a soviet bloc would be there for ever. many in western europe said no, we want stability, those people are dangerous people. no, they were not, they were courageous. and now there is a second wave, in ukraine. the people of the maidan did not accept the reality of the situation. they were courageous, many of them were killed, and what we were able to do was side with them, from all political parties in this parliament; to be there at this decisive moment when history was in the making. we were not courageous, they were and are courageous. from all walks of life, from all political groups, i, we, only met moderate people who wanted change, who wanted to live in a free country and again, happily so, they did not accept the reality of the situation. today we must do what we can: side with them, assist them financially and economically, together with the imf, help them in making democracy work – they will do the work but we can be of assistance. we should not offer things which we are not prepared to give, so i would not like to engage in the whole membership issue, but what we can do is to associate with them. once again they are courageous people, they need our support and let us hope that there will be a third wave of freedom in eastern europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – two or three hours ago i was crystal clear. i accept all treaties which give a right to the countries of eastern europe, including article[nbsp ]49 of the treaty on european union. i do not want to be more specific, however, because to do so could create the idea that eu membership would soon be on the table, and i want to be realistic. however, i understand your emotions, i accept them and i value them. let us go forward together, not against one another, but together for the peoples of eastern europe, for the maidan and for ukraine.
it was mind-boggling to see those meps on the stage in kiev last saturday. i quote mr verhofstadt who was very happy to be there and to be able to say 'we have won, we have won'. but who are the "we" he was addressing? was it mrs. tymoshenko who announced immediate revenge the next day? or was it the neo-fascists of swoboda? are those the european values to which he referred? neo-fascists, anarchy? what are you talking about? the european commission immediately pledged 20 billion euros ... (the president interrupts the speaker) mr president, on a point of order, this happened to me yesterday. it is obviously impossible to make a speech here which may not be accepted by everyone; i find this completely disrespectful. i hope you can do something about that. the commission immediately promised to transfer eur 20 billion to the next regime, which we do not even know what it is. but where does 20 billion come from to buy a country? do we have too much money? give that money back to the eu citizens who ultimately paid for it. give us our money back and stop buying up eastern countries and please no visa-free regime! (the president refused to answer the question on a blue card) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
freedom and justice. nothing less is at stake in ukraine today. i am deeply convinced of this and that is also the message of the courageous russian reporter arkady babchenko who was literally on the front line at the maidan last week. freedom and justice. does that mean ukraine will become part of europe? despite russian rulers? i quote again with approval the alternative russian voice of babchenko: "ukraine is already part of europe, the revolution has already happened. and not on the barricades, but in the minds, which is much more important. ukraine has already chosen!". freedom and justice for ukraine. last week europe took up this matter in kiev in an acute crisis situation, and i am grateful for that. that, ladies and gentlemen, calls for a political follow-up. it offers the citizens of ukraine a fair european perspective, because it is a european country.
like many before me, i want to pay tribute to the courage and determination of the people on maidan square. because they've been there for three months and nothing or no one has been able to get them off that square in those three months. not 25 degrees fahrenheit, not the slowly fading international attention and not even political bullets. and, no, these were not fascists in that square, these were ordinary people, just the people who normally do not protest, do not go out into the streets, if they disagree with something. and yes, the reason was the non-signing of the association agreement with the european union. but that wasn't the cause. the reason was the complete distrust of the ukrainian people in the political elite. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the regions, but that we should not be concerned about the situation in the regions. the crucial question now is, of course, how europe should respond. we are happy to agree on the substance of this. that is also stated in the joint resolution. we also agree on the organization of a donor conference, the preparation of elections and a relaxed visa regime. but i am afraid i hear less agreement on the tone of our political position. i would like to call for a tone of what i would call a tone of political generosity. a clear signal to the ukrainian people that europe is ready for ukraine, both financially and politically. and yes, that means expressly stating the prospect of enlargement, of accession. it won't be today or tomorrow, but in time it will be. i refer to article 49 of the treaty and i think that the political tone must be very clear in that regard.
mr president, today we have to send a strong message that our support for democracy and human rights is for all the groups in ukraine. respect for ethnic identity and minority languages is crucial in restoring the sense of national unity and preserving the territorial integrity of the country. while trying to find a peaceful solution to the demonstrations in kiev, we see now that new demonstrations are taking place in crimea. today in the square in front of the crimean parliament, pro-russian demonstrators are clashing with crimean tatars who support the territorial integrity of ukraine. the tatar people have been struggling for cultural, language, education and housing rights within ukraine for decades, and now they face a situation that is threatening their rights as indigenous people of crimea. we should not neglect this outbreak of unrest in crimea.
i think that the resolution agreed by the various groups is a very good indication of the major challenges facing iraq. the minister has already said that they are at different levels. in general, because of the conflict in syria and also in the run-up to the iraqi elections on 30 april. the text of the resolution is before you, so i shall not summarize it. i want to focus for the next minute on a particularly vulnerable group in iraq. the christian minorities who have lived in the area for as long as anyone can remember and whose numbers are dwindling due to attacks and intimidation. in 2003, 5% of the population, now only 1.5%. and i'm talking about 250 to 500,000 people, that's all. and of those who remained in the country, many are fleeing from one region to another. in our resolution, paragraph 7 covers this group. some groups do like to talk about minorities, except apparently when it comes to christians. i'm very sorry to hear that. if my figures do not convince you of the particular vulnerability of this group, let me briefly tell the story of shamiram, a 32-year-old school teacher in mosul. christian herself, but kids in her class from all backgrounds. and that was not a problem for a long time, until that city of mosul, over the past year, turned into a bastion of intolerance and sectarian violence. shamiram begins to receive threatening letters saying "get out of here" or "you are not safe". part of the family flees to the nineveh plain, and another part, friends and relatives, leave the country. but shamiram continues to teach and, in 2013, is murdered on his way to school. the story of shamiram is the reason why, despite the fact that we are wrapping up this group in a small paragraph, i always insist in this chamber on the particularly vulnerable position of this group of people, the special attention, mr minister, that we must give to this group. very specific, more specific than we do now, just like america does. and yes, she motivates me to keep doing so, and i hope that her story will motivate you to do the same.
for the epp group i would like to follow the example of my dutch colleague, mrs de lange, and ask the council for its opinion on the situation of the severely weakened christian minority in iraq. the question i have to ask myself is: do christians in the two-stream country really have a future? i have heard from an insider, a local expert, that there are very pessimistic voices coming from amman yesterday. the outflow is continuous. demographic shifts are taking place where christians are still in the majority. the christian minority would be a plaything of rival shiite, sunni and kurdish forces. and also consider the proposal of the iraqi government for an autonomous region in the nineveh plain. in short, mr president of the council, i assume you are aware of these facts. i would like to know what the eu is doing to protect the iraqi christians? should they really be removed from the middle east, from iraq, from the legendary land of the two rivers? are we ignoring that? i like to hear what's going on on the ground.
the violence, the fear in iraq is immense. in january alone, 733 people were killed and 1,229 were injured. all because of terrorism and violence. the civilians in iraq are no longer certain of their lives. one hundred and forty thousand people have fled the current violence in ambar. terrorism must be stopped. but the people also feel let down by the government, especially by prime minister maliki, who has not fulfilled his promises to make real reforms and has failed to address the concerns of the sunni minority and other religious communities. when i look at a report by human rights watch and see that iraqi authorities are illegally detaining thousands of women, subjecting them to torture and threatening them with sexual abuse, i understand where that distrust comes from. that is why reforms must be implemented and maliki must ensure that those security forces do indeed guarantee the security of all citizens. we have made a great effort as the european union, alongside the un, to do something in this area. but i also see, when i look at the european union delegation, that not only does it have to work under very difficult conditions, but it also does not have the necessary material and resources to do anything. so i would like to ask you: do something about it! the unity of iraq must not be compromised; it is important to look at all vulnerable groups and religious groups in particular. my colleagues have already brought that up. there is an agreement between the eu and iraq and there are joint meetings to work on a commitment. there's an election coming up, but all that's not enough. i would like to call not only on political leaders but also on religious leaders to engage in a dialogue to see how this situation can be dealt with. what is happening now has absolutely disastrous consequences for the stability, not only of the country itself, but also for the whole region and therefore also for us. so i ask you: do something.
we are talking today about respect for fundamental rights. and every member state of the european union guarantees democracy, the rule of law and human rights. otherwise they would not be members. but in this parliament, president schulz is calling for the restriction of the freedom of the press by stating that a film critical of islam must not be distributed. this parliament wants to influence free discussions of free citizens by anonymous propaganda on the internet for a european project during the european elections. and this parliament still wants turkey to join, a country which does not recognise any fundamental rights and which imprisons journalists. mr president, this parliament does not protect fundamental rights at all, not even the right of peoples to self-determination, while the european union is developing into a superstate in which citizens are nothing more than the plaything of unelected bureaucrats. president, the netherlands must leave the union. my party is called the freedom party for a reason. the dutch flag must once again fly freely, and only then will the dutch people be guaranteed their fundamental rights.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it can be an alternative to the european arrest warrant when a person is actually wanted for questioning and not for conviction. because when looking for evidence in a criminal case, the least invasive means must be used. the european investigation order is not simply based on mutual trust. the greens attach importance to the proportionality test which has been added and to the exception which can be made where fundamental rights are at stake. because trust is good, but control is better, and good example is good to follow. these two grounds on which the receiving party may refuse to execute the search warrant must, in our view, also be added to the european arrest warrant. the inability to get rid of the arrest warrant has led to untold suffering for european citizens in recent years, who have been transferred to another country on the basis of sloppy evidence and languished there in prolonged pre-trial detention under appalling conditions. i have repeatedly asked the commission and the council to do this and they have replied: this is collateral damage. - what about collateral damage? you tell that to a man or a woman who's wrongfully imprisoned and sees their job, their home, their relationship disappear? the fact that commissioner reding is now saying in her contribution that she would rather put off the changes for a long time shows that she does not understand the seriousness of the situation. the arrest warrant has now been in force for ten years without any proportionality test and without any account being taken of the inhumane conditions in prisons in some countries. we would like to see the rule of law functioning equally well in every country, but that is not the case at present and that is why mutual trust is not the right basis for judicial cooperation. because like i said, trust is good, but control is better. i therefore welcome the report by mr ludford, which calls for the arrest warrant to be amended. i expect you will. because getting arrested and deported for picking poppies on the side of the road or not submitting a video to the video store on time -- and i'm not making this up -- can't be a reason. mrs reding, i expect you to grant the wish we are putting forward here within a year.
in the debate on ukraine in strasbourg, hans van baalen, the shadow rapporteur for ukraine of the alde group, spoke out against the prospect of eu membership. article 49 of the lisbon treaty gives all european countries the right to apply for eu membership. van baalen, however, feels it unwise to speak specifically about this now, because it raises expectations which cannot be fulfilled. the vvd programme for the european elections on 22 may therefore states that eu membership for ukraine is not on the table. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this cooperation is good for the european union, for the netherlands, which is one of the largest investors in ukraine, and for ukraine itself. during his visits to ukraine, the maidan movement and the opposition were concerned with democratic reforms in ukraine, fighting corruption and ending the oppression by the then regime. the ukrainians did not turn against russia and ask for eu membership. they called for democracy and respect for human and civil rights and cooperation with the eu.
i would like to thank mr hoyer, commissioner reding and our rapporteur, mr marinescu, for their contribution to this debate. reading the 2012 annual report, i was again impressed by the scale and also the results of the european investment bank. i guess you could say that. i think that few people know that the european investment bank invests twice as much as the world bank, for example. and it is therefore a crucial instrument for the european union. but despite this overall positive assessment, i also have a number of criticisms. first of all, i want to start with the lack of transparency. the european investment bank is the least transparent major international banking institution according to bankwatch, and i actually think that is unworthy of the european union. it is also regrettable because of the low visibility of the european investment bank. my second criticism concerns the choice of sectors. in 2012, some 30% of investments went to transport infrastructure. i think it is good and it is also in the operational plan 2014-2016 if the european investment bank is strongly focused on the future. the crisis has shown that europe needs to become even stronger for the transition to a smart and sustainable economy. and the european investment bank has a very important role to play in this. unfortunately, sustainability in particular is still a bit of a mess, even though that is where the future lies. in future, competition will be based much more on the efficiency of the use of raw materials, the reduction of harmful emissions and so on. i would like the european investment bank to put more emphasis on this, not only to save the climate, to save the earth, but above all to make the economic structure of europe much stronger.
mr president, as has been said before, the european investment bank has an enviable reputation: the bank has fewer staff than the world bank and lends more money. it can do that - and this is explained very well in the marinescu report - because it has a triple a rating. that is also an enviable position. this is partly because member states guarantee the capital of the european investment bank. my question, my general comment is: if those member states are gradually downgraded, if they also lose their triple a rating, what effect does that have on the lending capacity of the european investment bank? if we look at the recent multiannual budget of europe, it is lower than the previous ones for the first time in history. we automatically assumed that the european investment bank would be given more responsibility. a euro spent through the european budget is gone. a euro given to the european investment bank may be used 20 or 30 times. so that's much better on its own. we've come up with all kinds of new programs: eurobonds, transport bonds, more work for the european investment fund and so on. everything comes with more paperwork, more small projects and things like that. we have not had much experience with the european budget itself. the european court of auditors refuses to issue a statement of assurance for various parts of the european budget. how does the european investment bank intend to avoid its projects encountering the same difficulties as similar projects under the european budget? finally, mr president, there is talk of priorities, unemployment, energy, etc. i would say, in the light of the events in ukraine, let us concentrate on renewable energy sources.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this report gives us an excellent opportunity to look back and to look ahead. looking back, i think the commission – as well as parliament – may be very proud of the directives that we have turned out, among other things, on maternity and paternity leave, and on women on boards. unfortunately, however, no-one has benefited from these directives in practice, because the council is not doing its part of the work. if the council is serious about gender equality, unblocking these directives needs to be a top priority. meanwhile, the commission need never be bored in the next term. parliament is eagerly awaiting new proposals for directives, such as on the gender pay gap and – a binding one, please – on violence against women, on paternity, adoption and filial leave. if all three institutions do their part, eu citizens will be able to notice a change for the better. finally, a short remark on the report itself: though we support almost everything that is in it, we cannot vote in favour if paragraph 67 on prostitution is not deleted. i sincerely hope that it will be.
rapporteur. - mr president, i am glad we have the opportunity for a brief exchange on the topic of transparency. i would like to start my intervention with a little quote from one of my favourite television series, called ‘yes, prime minister’, where sir humphrey appleby is saying to the prime minister: ‘open government, prime minister, freedom of information. we should always tell the press freely and frankly anything that they could easily find out some other way’. that is pretty much the attitude of the eu institutions today. colleagues, we all know that the trust of the citizens is at an all-time low. so this is the moment when we need to make eu institutions more transparent and give the citizens more trust. it is imperative that we develop a culture of transparency. for half a century, the european integration process has been driven by diplomats and civil servants – who did an excellent job, incidentally. but this is in the past. the diplomats have a culture of secrecy and discretion. they do not have a culture of transparency. today we are in a political union in a europe of citizens, and that means that transparency is a key element of the work that we are doing. before entering into the details of the report that has been adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and that will be voted on tomorrow, i have just a few words on the epp alternative motion for a resolution, which surprises me because it seems not to enhance transparency but actually to reduce it. i find this surprising, because there are also members in the epp group who come from a tradition of transparency and openness. as a matter of fact, they are the very nationalities that have driven the process of transparency in the european union. if you read – i believe it is recital c in the epp resolution – they do not seem to have a very high opinion of citizens’ intelligence, because it reads ‘the legislative decision-making process is very complex, with very many preparatory, confidential and secret documents being vital for the whole legislative process’. that reads a bit like ‘do not worry your pretty little heads over it, citizens. we will sort it out behind closed doors’. and here i quote yet again ‘yes, prime minister’, where his assistant bernard says to sir humphrey appleby: ‘but surely the citizens of a democracy have a right to know’, and sir humphrey replies ‘no, they have a right to be ignorant. knowledge only means complicity in guilt. ignorance has a certain dignity’. now that may be fair for a comedy on television, but it is surely not fair for the way that we do politics in the european union. now, regarding the recommendations: first of all, of course we urgently need to revise regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, for which mr cashman here is rapporteur. this is really urgent, and it is unacceptable that the commission and the council keep blocking progress. secondly, transparency must be the rule and secrecy the exception. it seems that the practice today is the other way round. we have made a couple of very pragmatic and practical recommendations. for example, every eu institution, including this house, could appoint a transparency officer today. we have plenty of civil servants; we can appoint somebody to oversee the process, make recommendations and develop a culture of transparency. secondly, having extensive experience with litigation in court, i feel that we need lighter procedures to challenge negative decisions on requests for access to documents. it is absurd that we are burdening the courts with years and years of litigation. yes, president, i am coming to a conclusion. finally, we need better procedures for classifying documents and for requests for in-camera meetings. now it is a very random process which is left to high-ranking civil servants to decide. we want a regulation laying down criteria for the classification of documents and an independent oversight body to monitor that process.
blue card question. - first of all, let me say that i am actually not happy that mr cashman is leaving us after having done a great job for 15 years. secondly, i have spoken to the epp and have supported quite a few of the excellent amendments by your epp colleague ms corazza bildt. but my question to you is: do you not actually think that the citizens themselves are the best judges of what information they should and should not get? why is it that you refuse that kind of openness? it does not mean that everything is open; at the moment secrecy seems to be the rule. i do have experience in trilogues. i also have some experience in court, litigating for more transparency. do you have that experience, ms sommer?
- i'm the reporter. - mr. president, we are voting today on the fourth amendment to the law against money laundering and terrorist financing. and before i summarize the content, i would like to thank my co-correspondent krišjānis kariņš and the shadow reporters of libe, frank engel, emine bozkurt, graham watson, timothy kirkhope and dennis the younger. we have all made a sharp adjustment to the european commission's proposal on one crucial point. this parliament is adding a public register for final stakeholders. and with that, we're making it easier for banks and brokers to identify their clients. and that's what i'm concerned about as a green, and that's what i'm concerned about first and foremost, is that we make it a lot harder for criminals and tax evaders and tax avoiders to hide their money in letterbox companies in the european union. the fact that the son of the deposed ukrainian president yanukovych embezzles ukrainian government funds and deposits them in dutch trusts, as was reported in the news last week, makes me as a dutchman ashamed. last november, the dutch embassy in kiev held a meeting with tax advisers in which wealthy ukrainians were shown how they could safely and cheaply store their money in our country with the help of the dutch state. no one asked where all those millions came from. and did we all forget the definition of money laundering? money laundering is the transfer of money earned through criminal activities such as extortion and fraud into the official circuit. another example: gaddafi who put his oil dollars in a letterbox company in the netherlands. i'm not proud of it. tax evasion and tax avoidance are, in my view, serious crimes. how many roads are not paved? how many children in africa don't go to school? how many wounds are not healed when the coffers are empty, because the corporations put their profits into letterbox companies. thabo mbeki, former president of south africa and now chairman of the un commission investigating capital flight from africa, calculated that twice as much money is going out of africa each year as is coming in through development cooperation. misguided taxation leads to misguided development. a european public register for ultimate stakeholders makes corporate structures transparent and gives our society the opportunity to tackle immoral tax avoidance through openness and public pressure. it can set a trend in the world. let america take a good look at what we're doing here. prime minister cameron and president hollande have already advocated a public register. they see that in the end it is the citizens who pay for the benefits of the multinationals. angela merkel is against it and the dutch government, through mr. euro himself, mr. dijsselbloem, is also against it. he probably thinks the netherlands is going to miss opportunities and leaves the suspicion that he is continuing to facilitate tax evasion. just last week, minister dijsselbloem claimed that a public register could not be made because it would not improve privacy. well, i'll let him rest. what we are proposing in this european parliament is precisely what we are proposing in terms of data protection. there is nothing in that register but what is strictly necessary, and we have also given the possibility to bank customers who are rejected in some way to appeal without giving them their details, because we do not want to give criminals any insight into their situation. this parliament is ready to negotiate with the council, but unfortunately the period is running out. we are voting on this today, but we invite the council which is not here today to sit down with us.
mr[nbsp ]president, why should it be a secret that someone owns a part of a certain company? it seems only logical to want to know who you are doing business with, or to know that the business you are doing is legitimate. hiding company owners and using obscure corporate constructions to avoid detection by the authorities are tactics used by criminal networks to launder money. citizens are looking to us to take action. to quote one of many (a dutch lady), ‘the european parliament can stop criminals hiding money and robbing poor countries.’ so please help to reveal who is behind european companies and trusts. criminals use such networks and operate on an increasingly international level, further complicating transparency of ownership. we want to prevent drug lords, people[nbsp ]traffickers, gun[nbsp ]runners and corrupt businesses from setting up companies to launder their dirty money. in order to tie criminal activity to its perpetrators and facilitate prosecutions, we must be able to uncover who owns a given company. the rapporteurs, judith sargentini and krišjānis kariņš, did not initially propose the full openness of registers. for us, the social democrats, full openness was a key priority. without that, we would not have supported the proposal for a directive. we want a public register in full compliance with eu data protection rules. therefore i am glad that, in the end, parliament is supporting that approach. another important element put forward by our group and adopted in committee concerns better witness protection. whistle-blowers who are brave enough to share information in order to dismantle criminal networks should have the protection they deserve.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am actually a little surprised by this, because i have received signals from the european commission that the commission was indeed interested in a public register. let 's be honest here . the proposal you had put forward was simply not good enough. you suggested that a company should know who its ultimate stakeholder is. the banks said, if that's the case and we go in and inquire with that company, we'll immediately send a signal that they should put their ultimate stakeholder a little deeper. the same goes for your story about balancing data protection and privacy versus effective tracking. you had no data protection in your proposal at all, with the consequence that the industry said: we are being squeezed between two legislations. how should we view anti-money laundering legislation in the light of data protection legislation? this parliament has devised a solution to this problem, which i believe is very effective. a public registry leads to a self-cleaning society. because let's be honest here. it wasn't that those dutch trust offices that facilitated those millions of ukrainians didn't think: that might be a little dodgy business. they could have felt on their dutch tongues that this money was coming from the wrong activity. and they went for it because they thought it was actually worth it. a public register gives journalists the opportunity to investigate. that's what we're looking for, because we want our society to clean itself.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his kind introduction. yesterday we had a long discussion in this house about the role of the european investment bank. the situation in europe is that for the first time we have a multiannual budget for the next seven years which is lower than the previous multiannual budget. this means that the role of the european investment bank will be considerably increased. the philosophy is - and this has been demonstrated in practice in various circumstances - that if you spend one euro from the european budget, that euro is gone. if you give the same euro as guarantee capital to the european investment bank, the consequence is that it is used 20 or 30 times. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's an excellent case. that is another reason why this report is a good development. we are increasing the guarantee capital of the european investment bank and that means that the european investment bank can lend more money. because the european investment bank is a special bank. the guarantees are given by the public authorities and it is only because the european investment bank can borrow cheaply and lend at a lower interest rate. we must maintain this role and we believe that this report can make an important contribution to that end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the developments in ukraine make us realize once again that it is essential that europe does not give the impression that it is abandoning these countries at this time. this report can help to do that.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report. the googles, the facebookes, the amazons of this world are all complying with american law, and we're not doing anything about it. we can't even talk to the americans that way. that is why we have the vote, and i say that to the council representative. we're in a hurry to come up with a comparison so that we can say to google and facebook, what you're doing is no longer allowed in europe. we are also in a hurry - and you are not in a hurry - because we want to give european companies the chance to become the safest in the world and thus offer a service that everyone finds interesting. we are in a hurry, mr president, because our citizens must be protected. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. president. - i thank my colleague for that question, because it is a very good one. yes, the greens have voted against swift and passenger name records collection for a reason all these years. we also still find it very sad that mrs reding is trying to agree with the americans on a 'principle law' on data protection and that she is unable to do so because she prefers to have our data gradually transferred to other laws. so i absolutely share your opinion. yes, swift and pnr should be part of this. and i would like to say: we're not just protecting ourselves from the americans. what if the russians and the chinese come up with these kinds of proposals?
mr president, we are talking today about the recording of personal data in the digital world, a world which is increasingly shaping everyday life. your banking, your email, your social media, but also all your online stores, your phone provider, even your dvd player, they all record your behavior. and that happens indefinitely, forever, with unknown consequences and for the rest of your life. this, mr president, is irresponsible. the directive does say that some authorizations should be given, but not all. and no one will give permission if they really know what's going on. but in the meantime this parliament has approved ecall, a system that permanently listens to everyone who is driving. this parliament thinks that citizens have nothing to fear from the government but only from business. and this misconception would be ridiculous if it weren't so serious. mr president, the thinking about how privacy should be shaped in this digital age is just beginning. let us hope that it is not too late, because this directive is only the beginning.
madam president, thank you very much. it is customary in this house to express many words of thanks to one another. i'm happy to join you. but i would also like to thank the european business community and the many ngos who have influenced us over the last two years. in any case, i have learned a great deal from it about the balance between the protection of my personal data and the possibilities of moving towards e-commerce and a european single market. we agree that the 1995 directive is no longer valid. it's a divided piece of 28 countries and we can't go on with that. but we are in danger of seeing the optimum - something which mr albrecht is striving for - become the enemy of the maximum. what can we achieve in this area? in fairness, we have of course spent two years trying to reach an agreement ourselves. nevertheless, i agree with his question: what is the council doing? the president of the council may speak warm words, but where are the deeds? i know it is easy to blame the greeks all the time, and of course there have been other presidencies. but how will the council speed things up? europe needs this regulation not only for the protection of privacy, but also for our economic development.
madam president, my congratulations first of all to the two rapporteurs, who did a fantastic job. this is a major piece of legislation of this parliamentary term, and it is actually coinciding with cebit, which is one of the biggest it fairs in europe. this just goes to underline that we need this legislation, as we are living in the era of personal data. i will be honest and say that i do not think the data protection package is perfect, and i still have doubts about some weak spots – notably the protection of data when they are transferred outside the european union. but i will give my support to the package, imperfect as it may be, because this parliament has to give a clear political signal that – contrary to the national governments who are dragging their feet – we stand up for the rights of citizens, who have shown their interest in this legislation in a massive way. that brings me to the directive, for which i was a shadow. i am actually deeply concerned by the attitude of the ppe, the ecr and the council. i would call, in particular, on the ppe, who had the very first rapporteur, mr voss, to stick to the package approach which we have agreed upon, because the directive is even more sensitive than the regulation, and the opposition against it from the ppe and others is incomprehensible and irresponsible, because when our personal data are being used by the authorities for law enforcement and security purposes, privacy protections must be stronger, not weaker. in the next debate we will speak about the revelations on mass surveillance, which only go to show the urgent need for better legal protection for citizens. finally, in a democracy, the fight against crime and terrorism takes place in a proper, legal framework with proper legal protections for citizens, so not adopting the directive will seriously hamper crime fighting. i am looking at the ecr – while mr kirkhope is looking at the wall – which, if it is attached to fighting crime and terrorism, should vote for the directive.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, a big thank you to the rapporteur, claude moraes, who did a great job, and to the fellow shadow rapporteurs. i am very proud that this parliament is the only parliament, and the only institution in europe, that has raised this issue, and with very limited means we conducted the inquiry, whereas the council has been shamefully silent. it has not even been officially put on the council’s agenda. a massive violation of the rights of european citizens is being ignored by the council. shame on you! there is a certain irony, colleagues, in the fact that at this very moment the us congress is in session because ms feinstein, the chair of the intelligence committee, found out that the cia has actually also hacked into the computers of the us congress. ms feinstein is not amused, because apparently there are limits to the activities of secret services: secret services across the atlantic, but also within the european member states and also, incidentally, within our neighbour, russia, which have been acting like cowboys over the last few years. because that is what we are talking about. they have no business monitoring millions of innocent citizens, like a giant peeping tom. they enter the most intimate part of our private lives, even through our own webcams. it is a bloody shame – all under the pretext of national security, harassing journalists and whistle-blowers who expose the wrongdoing of governments. because that is what we are talking about, and it is not some remote exotic dictatorship. this is europe we are talking about, and massive violations of the laws that we pass. politicians cannot even be sure that their communications are not intercepted and listened to by others – maybe by political opponents. we heard here that secret services and governments are even producing dirt to discredit religious leaders. well, why not opposition politicians? what is stopping them, if they are even listening, not only to the mobile phone of mrs merkel and mr hollande, but even ms feinstein. i mean, how far does it go? how can we be sure that it is not the opposition that has been eavesdropped upon? this is the very fabric of our democracy – the rule of law – that we are talking about, and i find it unbelievable that the epp still has hesitations here and that the ecr is actually going to vote against. this house will stand up for the rights of european citizens, for democracy and for the rule of law, as it is laid down in the treaties. that is our job.
blue-card question. – my colleague, mr[nbsp ]kirkhope, has just described the creation of the enquiry committee as an irrational reaction. i have just said that the us congress is at this very moment conducting a hearing of john brennan, who is the security chief, at the initiative of senator feinstein. would mr[nbsp ]kirkhope describe the initiative of senator feinstein as irrational as well?
blue-card question to hubert pirker. – i think the nsa is now resorting to other means: my microphone has broken. this is sabotage 3.0. anyway i will hold it. i was just intrigued by mr pirkerʼs remarks about the authorities deciding on asylum. are we not looking at a different situation here? apart from a possible asylum request, the real issue here is if governments decide to extradite mr snowden to the united states. i know that the government of the netherlands has said that we have to extradite him as soon as he sets foot on dutch soil, but that is not actually true, because very often states decide not to extradite. we in europe are still waiting for the extradition of 25 cia agents who have been convicted in italy and who should have been extradited by the us. but the us does not extradite. so is that not the real issue?
mr president, i understand that you are in a hurry. i will carry on in dutch. meneer de voorzitter, wat ons de afgelopen maanden is overkomen met de praktijken van de nsa is absoluut onaanvaardbaar. het afluisteren van de handy van mevrouw merkel, dat hier vanmiddag al is beschreven, is daarvan wel het meest verschrikkelijke voorbeeld. en als atlanticus ben ik dan ook teleurgesteld in de vs. ik heb altijd veel vertrouwen in de vs gehad, maar met de nsa-afluisterpraktijken is men absoluut te ver gegaan. ik begrijp heel goed dat in deze tijden voor de terrorismebestrijding bepaalde technieken vereist zijn om mensen af te luisteren, maar niet in deze mate. het oordeel in het verslag-moraes kan op dit punt dan ook niet hard genoeg zijn. wij kunnen dit niet van de nsa accepteren. maar, voorzitter, – en dat zeg ik ook tegen mijn collega's van de groenen – de verenigde staten zijn niet melaats. om nu alle verdragen en onderhandelingen die wij met de verenigde staten voeren, op dit moment op te schorten, zoals het vrijhandelsverdrag en het swift-verdrag, lijkt me niet verstandig. temeer daar wij op dit moment de crisis in de oekraïne proberen op te lossen. dat kan europa alleen maar in samenwerking met de vs. dus laten wij nu niet alle dossiers met elkaar gaan vermengen.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, thank you for all the compliments. we have - and i have not done so alone but with my colleagues - always sought to ensure that parliament's progress report leads to an open dialogue with turkey. we have tried to produce a report that is critical but also fair. and an honest report. it is important that the eu has a good relationship with turkey. - why? - why? because it's a strategic partner for us. a strategic partner in a region that is already so turbulent. in 2005, turkey committed itself to reforms. they did not have to make these reforms for us, but for their own turkish citizens in particular. these reforms have also taken place in recent years. but i am worried, as are the commissioner and the minister. it started with the events at gezi park. and today, 15-year-old berkin elvan died after being hit by a tear gas grenade. i would therefore like to express from this place, on behalf of all of us, our condolences to the family. but it's not just gezi park, it's the most recent developments that i'm worried about since december 17th. we are therefore extremely critical of this development in our report. our starting point - and this is the commitment that turkey has made to us - is the rule of law, and that rule of law includes an independent and impartial judiciary. so it is out of the question that there is no longer a separation of powers. protecting that justice, protecting the fundamental freedoms, protecting freedom of expression, that is at stake at this moment. while until december it was assumed that reforms could guarantee the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, turkey has now made a step forward in protecting these important freedoms. we should like to see a genuine constructive dialogue with turkey. not just for legislation that has already been adopted, but also for the future, as commissioner füle has said. values and principles, that is what we stand for as europeans, and they are also good for turkish citizens.
as always, mr president, the progress report on turkey is a "make do and mend" story. the only possible conclusion is missing: turkey is not european, does not want to be european, cannot become european and should therefore never join the european union. because the fact is, mr president, that things are going particularly badly in the repressive turkey of the islamist erdoğan. take the excessive police violence during demonstrations, the corruption scandal within the government, the undermining of the rule of law, the far-reaching restriction of freedom of expression. even the naïve gossip of the commission and this parliament cannot stand this. president, the so-called negotiating framework states that in such a case the commission will advise the council to suspend the accession negotiations. the rhetorical question is why the commission is not fulfilling its obligation. the answer is: the commission is ready to do anything to stop its beloved turkey project. but, mr president, the pvv keeps repeating it until the commission and this parliament are sick of hearing it. the islamic, repressive turkey must never join the european union and the dutch who feel the same way about this, who vote for the pvv on 22 may.
madam president, 18 april 2007 was a black day for the protestant community in turkey, because on that day five young turks celebrated their hatred of christianity by committing the gruesome murder of three defenceless christians in malatya. and today, commissioner, is that small protestant community, are those churches in a state of shock. because what happened? at the end of last week, the five brutal murderers were released under a new legal regime. you can understand that the turkish protestant community is in shock because during their trial these criminals openly threatened christians, the relatives of the victims, their lawyers, the media, ngos, and so on. now they are free. protestants in turkey fear here i have a letter with me, an open letter for their safety. where is the rule of law in turkey? i urge you, commissioner, to ask the turkish authorities to ensure that justice is done in this case. the prosecutor has demanded four years to life imprisonment for these murderers they're free now. i find it intolerable that this is happening today. one more point. i'm the chairman of the israeli delegation. i would also like you to denounce the persistent anti-semitism in the turkish media to the turkish authorities. this is intolerable for a country which is officially a candidate country for membership of the european union. it has nothing to do with our standards and values and we must not be silent.
madam president, we – those of us who have been closely following developments in turkey for years – were the first to hear that there was a serious threat to democracy in turkey. those responsible for making plans for a military coup had to be sentenced. we now hear that it was all a conspiracy and that suspects in related cases are being released. we welcome, of course, the release of journalists and others who have been detained for years, but those who are suspected of murdering members of the council of state and christian missionaries are also being released. this is just one example. friends and foes keep changing. it is unclear what to believe any more. the truth seems to shift according to which newspaper one reads. the people of turkey, to a great extent, are losing their belief in the rule of law and democracy, which are the core values of the eu. turkey should go back to the path of reform, take all measures to restore trust in the independence of the judiciary, and give back to the people of turkey their belief in justice.
i would like to thank mr mayer very much, not only for his work here, but also for the very pleasant cooperation he has enjoyed over the last ten years. we've been working together for a while now, and it's always worked out great. it is a pity that the commission has come so late with this proposal, because there has been uncertainty for more than ten years, particularly because of the advent of the internet. it is a pity that the politicians are so slow to legislate, which makes things clearer for both consumers and businesses. what has been achieved here is that a certain amount of clarity has been created, which is good for the consumers, who now know where the liability lies, but also for the companies, who now also know where they stand. i agree with mr schwab that the second reading should take a closer look at the differences between online and offline books, because there is still some friction. in the end, this benefits consumers, businesses and the market. i am glad that there is now a genuine european approach that is clear to all parties. i hope that tomorrow the report, which has been approved by all parties and has been adopted in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, will continue in this way and that all the new amendments will be rejected. they are, as it were, disturbing mr mayer's balanced approach. so i hope that tomorrow the report adopted in imco will be accepted.
- i'm the reporter. - thank you, mr president, thank you, commission, and fellow negotiators and other members, thank you for being here for a final debate on f-gases, fluorinated gases. now, that sounds technical, but they have a huge impact on our climate. first, a little bit of historical perspective. we started in the 1980s with the montreal protocol to phase out cfcs and hcfcs. they were responsible for the hole in the ozone layer. it's a very successful protocol to phase out those f gases, the cfcs and hcfcs, but it's been replaced by perfluorocarbons and gases like sf6. its use has increased by 60% in the eu since 1990. so that's a huge increase in these f-gases, which have a very large greenhouse effect. they have no effect on the ozone hole, but they do have a large warming potential in the atmosphere and are very important greenhouse gases, sometimes up to 23,000 times as strong as, for example, co2. we have received the commission's proposal to phase out these f-gases, partly because it is necessary. if you're going to look at what the eu needs to do in the longer term to phase out greenhouse gases to a level of -95% after 2050, you also need to do something about the non-co2 greenhouse gases like the f-gases. the f-gases are a good example of the green economy. we have seen during the negotiations that there is an industry which has long been committed to alternatives. think of alternatives in refrigerators, air conditioning, insulation foams, and so on. for all those kinds of applications where there are f-gases, there are companies that say, we have alternatives available and we can deliver now. they therefore also called for stricter eu-level objectives and stricter legislation. on the other side, you have industries that have invested in f-gases and have, frankly, just been asleep. they lobbied very hard, of course, for no legislation, no tightening of the legislation. that was the battle within the european parliament, and also within the commission or the council: what industry you choose. for the new innovative ones and in this case also for the small and mediumsized enterprises within europe, because that is where the innovation is or do you opt for the large companies that are only stuck in f-gas production and very often also come from outside europe? i must say that i have been able to negotiate very well in parliament with my colleagues, such as jo leinen and mr bánki. we have reached a very good compromise in parliament. then we had to negotiate with the council and it is thanks to the lithuanian presidency that at least a deal was reached at the end of december because it was very difficult to convince the member states - as is often the case with climate legislation - of these opportunities for the green economy. the council was really the problem as is often the case with legislation. i thank the lithuanian presidency for the pressure it has exerted to reach an agreement. the agreement actually preserves the essence of the commission's proposal, i.e. a total phasing-out of the programme to -79% by 2030. but we have also been able to gain some ground as a parliament, such as additional prohibitions for specific sectors, think of commercial refrigeration systems, think of air conditioning with the highest greenhouse gases. we didn't get all of it. unfortunately, we have had to give up some of the f-gases levy, but fortunately we have a review for 2017 and i hope the commission will make good use of that too. finally, i would like to say that europe has once again been able to play a leading role in this matter. our agreement even led to an editorial comment from the new york times. and recently, california has indicated that it wants to legislate along the lines of the european union. so we can say we're in the lead here once again. with one small caveat: in california, they're gonna put a tax on the f-gases. let's bring that up for the 2017 review, because actually everybody's already doing it where it's successful. so why shouldn't the eu do that? but perhaps that is more for commissioner connie hedegaard, to whom i would like to thank in conclusion, and in particular her officials who have made it possible for us to reach this good compromise.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will be brief, because we must also enjoy the moment when a subject such as climate does not, for once, cause a great deal of controversy in this chamber. so that is something to celebrate, especially because i think we all see that these very proposals are a backbone of the green, innovative industry. you can create new jobs, you can combat climate change and you can therefore support the innovative industry of a new economy in which europe can play a leading role in the world. this is a good time to make that a reality, and this legislation will certainly do that. it is also important that we set a very clear precedent internationally - and i would like to join commissioner hedegaard in this. the united states and china indicated last june that they want to take the lead on climate change and explicitly said that f-gases are a good topic for cooperation. i am very pleased that the eu is now setting the bar high for the united states and china to actually work together on this front and follow the european example. and so we're going to phase out these f-gases globally and drive the new economy that's innovating for alternatives. we're going to phase out the f-gases once and for all, at the right pace, but ultimately with a clear goal: we're going to get rid of the f-gases and we're going to get into the green industry. i thank everyone for that, including the commissioner and mrs auconie. if it's all right with you, i'd be happy to join you for a round of champagne. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. can we do a college climate change in one minute? the most important thing is that when the sun shines, the energy is allowed to pass through, which is then reflected by the earth with an infrared wavelength. gases like co2 -- you're a chemist, i understand, i'm a chemist myself -- absorb exactly those wavelengths. this causes us to live in a climate that is about 20 degrees warmer than if there were no greenhouse gases. all of that is unchallenged. so the idea that if you emit more, you also have more warming is an abc for any chemist. the biggest debate right now is about the sensitivity of the climate system. then the 90 percent who say it's clear that most of the increase in co2 over the last 50 years has been caused by humans. you're gonna say no, but as a chemist, you can't deny that ultimately co2 is just a gas that traps heat, infrared wavelength. and if you don't, you really should go back to elementary school chemistry. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. i don't know what the question is exactly about how it works with those gases. if you talk about radiation and co2, if you look at the compound, it absorbs precisely the infrared radiation and thus traps the heat. i mean, how exactly does it work? it's obvious, and every study shows that. the whole atmosphere is 20 degrees... (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) by holding the energy at that wavelength. (audience shouts) well, sorry, if i have to start this too, sorry, but that's going to be a very, very basic story. so i'll leave it at that. if someone doesn't want to understand even this kind of basic chemistry, it's definitely over in a minute.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and on behalf of the verts/ale group. - mr president, i would like to thank the shadows, and mainly ms[nbsp ]bauer and ms[nbsp ]berès. they did exceptionally well in the trilogue. i think ms[nbsp ]b and the other ms[nbsp ]b did a really good ‘good cop, bad copʼ impression that worked wonders, and i must also admit that both the commission and the council were quite helpful as well, especially compared to some other trilogues. the end result is a very consensual and very good directive. this directive is not going to rock the world, but it will benefit eu workers in several ways on the ground, and that is where it matters, because having rights does not mean that people can actually live out their rights, and i think we have made progress towards that. people will have more access to the information they need to exercise their rights. they will have more access to judicial procedures and also to group claims. they will have more access to equality bodies, and these equality bodies need to be properly funded to execute these tasks. we as greens are particularly happy with a prohibition on victimisation being included, because everybody needs to be able to claim their rights without being victimised for it. we are also very happy with the inclusion of rights for family members, including mutual recognition, so that a same-sex couple from the netherlands going to italy does not suddenly find out that they are not married any more according to the member state that they are working in. it is unfortunate that many people – many populist groups mainly – do not understand that problems with replacement and exploitation and the other problems connected to free movement can only really be combated by ensuring workers’ rights, and i think that this directive has been a good step in that direction.
it is good that made in europe, producing in europe, is now also on the agenda and is given priority. we have been providing excellent knowledge in europe for too long and then having production take place in other parts of the world. take the lithium battery, developed here: the whole production is gone. it has to be different and it can be different. and that's what this policy is about. take the whole new generation of solar cells. the old generations are made with german machines all in the far east. the new technology, we have to produce it here and then export it. that's a different mindset. and that can also happen if we use our resources from the eib, the structural funds, horizon 2020 differently and make binding agreements with industry. i see that happening, too. the european commission is taking good steps. tajani, commissioner hahn will be coming to my area to see that. and i am confident that if we use our instruments, including the eib guarantees, differently, then companies, universities and training institutions will understand this. we will then have opportunities for green growth and jobs, and as far as i am concerned, with binding targets for the coming years.
president. - the european council is dealing with tsar vladimir the first, who is restoring the soviet union. he gives out countless russian passports and then he comes to the aid of those pathetic oppressed. and in passing, he takes over parts of countries. it started in georgia, today ukraine, tomorrow moldova. so consistent russian policy. tsars have been doing country-fucking for a hundred years. what should the european council do next week? 1) ukraine is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. both yanukovych and tymoshenko have become billionaires. so targeted, limited financial support under strict conditions and tight oversight with the imf. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. "the only account putin cares about is his bank account". so putin and his oligarchs are draining the country of funds, including by freezing assets. 3) the eu must completely review its energy policy. we're too dependent on russian gas now.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is good that the house is united, because we will see that illegal referendum happen on sunday. it will take place. both houses of the parliament of russia have made all preparations for an illegal annexation of the crimea, and the russian government has assisted them. i have not seen any movement towards withdrawing this illegal referendum. i think we will see in one week, or maybe two, that russia has done what it probably has always wanted to do: create ‘facts on the ground’ in the crimea. then we have to have serious economic sanctions that will hurt russia, unfortunately, and that will also hurt us. we should be prepared to do this because the russian actions are not only illegal, they also destroy the helsinki process in which we in europe have said that borders are to be accepted and can only be changed through international law. we are in a very serious situation. i would like to know from the commission and the council: are they really united on the financial support package? is there a difference of opinion between the council and the commission? is the money there, or not? are they prepared to take, together with parliament, one line on serious economic sanctions?
president. - the conflict over the future of ukraine is being portrayed by many as a completely unequal struggle. the front page of der spiegel says it all: a giant putin and little western dwarfs. yes, an unequal battle: the european union is a strong, smart, fast, brutal putin against a weak, divided, indecisive europe. and, mr president, there is indeed an unequal battle. on the one hand, a country whose economy and political system are on the verge of collapse. western isolation would be the last straw to bring russia to economic and political bankruptcy. on the other hand, the most prosperous region in the world, where the rule of law provides a level of security and freedom unprecedented in history. and that is not an equal fight. and i understand that the ukrainians who have a free choice will choose the western model, but they must have that free choice. they only have to look at neighboring poland. twenty years ago , per capita income was ... (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr. president, the russian invasion and occupation of crimea is illegal. and that requires an appropriate response from the european community to russia. russia is playing with fire and the answer we have to give is two-fold. one: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. two , you 're not . the european union is also taking the initiative to provide assistance to the people of ukraine. we must give our approval very quickly as a parliament to the measures taken on this point.
mr president, commissioner füle, minister kourkoulas, the only acceptable solution to the crisis in crimea is a diplomatic one. until this moment, there have been no signs that this will happen, while every new development suggests the opposite. we need a de-escalation of tensions. ukrainian and tatar minorities in crimea have taken big risks: they have gone out to the streets to demonstrate peacefully for the territorial integrity of their country. now they have to resist provocations from the pro-russian troops and armed men invading military posts, government buildings and the regional parliament. houses of the tatar minority have been marked. in a few days’ time there will be an illegitimate referendum in crimea. we should not forget about the ukrainian and tatar people of crimea, who have been very restrained and brave. all parties involved should take their responsibility and do their utmost to prevent this crisis from turning into a disaster. this is not a threat to the security of crimea or ukraine alone. this concerns the stability of our continent.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the aim of ensuring that there is good cooperation in order to reduce the number of flights and thus reduce travel time and fuel consumption was of added value, not only for consumers but also for airlines. this was the intention of the ses2 package. the ses2+ package is, however, of a different order. the european commission, through this proposal, intends to intervene in the way in which countries have organised their aviation and the associated services (e.g. air traffic control, meteorology, etc.) and wants to require that these services be contracted, scaled up and organised in accordance with ec requirements. the pvv considers this interference unnecessary and undesirable. the existing single european sky package is sufficient for the objective of efficiency in air traffic, the new package adds undesirable elements that infringe national control.
in writing. - the european parliament voted yesterday, 12 march, on the security fund (iacolino report). unlike my colleagues in the pvda delegation in the european parliament, i have refrained from rejecting this proposal. i am well aware of the position of the council of the netherlands, which in january helped to initiate the leucard procedure which forced the commission to review the proposal for a public prosecutor's office, and which has a different view on this matter. however, i am personally convinced that a european public prosecutor is the appropriate way to combat fraud involving eu funds. time and again, in 50% of cases already, brussels' wrongdoing has no national impact. we owe it to our voters to ensure that the tax money used to finance european projects is well spent. the current control system, in which the fraud watchdog olaf and the european court of auditors play a role, is too weak to do this. the netherlands has now said in the council that it does not want to cede legal powers to the eu. i do not agree with that on this particular point, but i understand that position and i understand the views of my colleagues in the party. in the light of all this, i think it would be most appropriate to abstain on the iacolino report.
madam president, these two reports contain very serious criticisms of the troika system. looking at what has happened in the programme countries, we must conclude that there are quite a number of fatal flaws in the system. the european parliament now clearly and concretely calls on you, mr commissioners, to adjust the troika system and the programmes. we call on you to take account of social indicators for the purpose of renegotiating the adjustment programmes. we call on you to come up with corrective measures to improve the social situation with the help of the ilo and the council of europe. we call on you to revise the structure of the troika so that there is democratic involvement of this parliament, and so that there is someone democratically accountable for what happens – and that would be you, mr commissioners. the social failure of the troika programmes has led to heart-breakingly horrible situations, a measure of poverty and desperation and hopelessness that europe should be ashamed of. meanwhile, people feel that they have no democratic influence any more over the most vital systems of their countries, and unfortunately that feeling is justified in many cases. i think this more than anything fans euroscepticism and even hatred of some really vulnerable people in the eu. it is now up to you, mr commissioners, if you will heed our democratic call, to overhaul the troika system: yes or no?
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for allowing us to take stock of where we are and how we can move forward in the future. if i look particularly at countries such as greece and cyprus, you will see that unemployment in those countries is still very high, that their public debt has increased sharply - and not just in those countries, by the way, it has happened in almost all the countries in the euro zone - and that, moreover, in cyprus and greece, competitiveness is still far behind. we must stop the policy of pumping more money into those countries, imposing more obligations on them. it's time for a change of course. the euro area 2.0. i think it is wise for these countries to leave the eurozone and to be given new opportunities to move their economies forward and create opportunities for a real future. with another currency outside the eurozone, so that they can really get out of this mess that they're in. we can do that now. the financial markets are fairly stable. so it is time for a completely different policy. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, if there is one issue that europe must stay away from, it is tax policy. this is so close to the heart of national policy, because tax policy is not just about revenue but also about expenditure. that is a matter for the national parliaments. in my country, the national parliament has voted for a sensible, competitive tax policy and that must remain the case. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. madam president, my comment is that i would like to help you to give cyprus a real future. i see cyprus as a country that is on the verge of collapse, with huge unemployment, with huge debts. continuing as we are now will not work for cyprus. the only lifeline for cyprus is to leave the eurozone and continue to have its own currency to compete with it, create jobs and reduce debt. the noose around your neck will not provide you with a future. therein lies my solidarity with your country. please take that tip with you.
madam president, 75 per cent employment, 20 million people out of poverty, 3 per cent of gross national product for research and development, 20 per cent renewable energy. do these targets seem familiar to you, mr. rehn, mr. andor? these are the objectives of the eu's 2020 agenda, the objectives that the commission sets itself for the future. and that shows that this commission is making political choices within the troika, political choices for which purpose is more important than any other purpose. and that is the great problem of the present troika. there is an ecb which is not accountable to anyone, there is an imf in which it is unclear who can exercise democratic control over it. only the european commission makes political choices. in this report parliament makes it quite clear: we need clearer democratic control over these kinds of political choices. and i just want to make it very clear: what will the commission do now to ensure that democratic control of the commission is improved in these elections and that the troika is no longer needed in this form?
madam president, we cannot expect the troika to solve all the problems. the origin of high debt levels is substantially due to the large differences between countries. this directly affects the viability of the eurozone in its present form. it's a bad thing, and i want to stress that. it is a bad thing when europe hides problems by spreading debts across the union with the help of a banking union. i want to emphasize that. that's a very bad thing! the appreciation of the troika does not take away my concern about a lack of democratic control. i think that europe is getting too much influence on socioeconomic and budgetary policy without the right democratic legitimacy. the strengthening of economic governance in the context of the european semester is particularly important. democratic control - i would also like to stress this - should not be primarily at eu level, but rather in national parliaments. it is a question of their budgetary rights and their national powers in the social and economic spheres! this explains the alienation of the eu member states from brussels.
president. - mr president, brussels is forcing member states to implement economic reforms which are not supported by the people themselves. and the personification of that policy is the troika. all the member states are suffering under the pressure of brussels. no one can determine his own socioeconomic policy. all countries should go to the doctor with their pee. and the diagnosis is always: more brussels, more taxes, less democracy. but, mr president, more brussels is not the answer. brussels is the problem. fifteen years ago, there were no macroeconomic imbalances, no youth unemployment of 50 percent, no penalties against successful exporting. why do these things exist now? because the political elites have made the european project and the euro sacrosanct at all costs. that is why, mr president, the pvv will campaign for the disappearance of the euro, for withdrawal from the union and for the restoration of democracy. may 22nd, that's the day!
mr president, the violations of human rights across the world at this moment are so vast and so numerous that it is difficult to do the suffering justice. from rape as a weapon of war in africa to executions in iran, mass censorship in china, human trafficking in the sinai and killings by islamic jihadists in nigeria, the witch-hunt for lgbtis – the list goes on and on. what does not help is that the universality of human rights is being challenged by growing numbers of people and governments who fear their own populations more than anything. the un human rights council should be a neutral body which assesses human rights violations and condemns them wherever and whenever they occur. however, too many members do not have a clean slate – not even close to one. i am speaking of china, cuba, saudi arabia and russia. bloc voting and uncontested elections among the worst culprits will not make condemning others any easier or more credible. that is why the eu must assume its responsibility with leadership and ambition. a few of our priorities are to include civil society and re-focus the world’s attention on the unspeakable horrors taking place in syria: three years of war, almost 70 years after we said ‘never again’. where are we? a generation grows up in a pool of mud, in refugee camps without schools or prospects – and that is at best. being dead, shot or starved in a street, raped against a wall or beaten in makeshift prisons – those are the alternatives. both rebels and governments must understand that murdering their own will lead nowhere.
i would like to begin by congratulating the four rapporteurs on their work. if we adopt these four regulations tomorrow, then the real work can begin, because the commission has been waiting for the funds for a long time. perhaps this is also a good time to congratulate commissioner malmström on the policy changes she has made in her field in recent years. there has been a profound change and part of the credit for that goes to the commissioner. we all know that asylum and immigration policy in europe is highly controversial. if a particular country is in trouble, all the other countries are not automatically ready to help the country in question. the creation of these funds shows at least that there is a certain financial solidarity. those countries that need it most will probably also be helped the most. i hope that these regulations will make it easier to use the funds. reducing administrative burdens is always something that everyone is asking for. i welcome the fact that there are also minimum percentages for certain actions. we cannot be content with concentrating on one aspect of asylum and immigration policy, but must always involve all the different aspects together. and there has to be flexibility. that is provided for in the regulations. the fact that action is possible in third countries seems to me to be a very good thing. several countries have already asked for it. finally, one of the things that is also important to me is the influence of parliament. we can enforce them in the future by means of delegated acts. i hope that parliament will have as much influence as it has had in the creation of this regulation.
president, commissioner malmström is using migration to claim more and more power for brussels, but immigration is constantly costing more money. and the more brussels spends, the bigger the problems. not only does all that money not solve any problems, it also needs to be managed. and that is a new problem. in the netherlands, money has been spent on solving the problems of immigration for decades. it's not working. the netherlands is bound by brussels and international agreements and that costs the dutch at least 7.2 billion euros a year, and that every year again. my proposal is to save the taxpayer a lot of money by abolishing european policy, by re-nationalizing policy, by letting the member states go back to their own migration laws, free of brussels' interference. to do that, mr president, we need three things: we have elections, we have courage, and we have a constitutional amendment. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, it is a series of questions. firstly, it is true that the principles of the united nations also state that countries are sovereign. this is just in paragraph 2 of the united nations charter. people decide who is on their territory. no, my party does not support the unrestricted application of the free movement of persons. will it have an impact on the dutch economy and on dutch economic development? yes, but there are also studies on this which indicate that the average migrant - and these are not even my figures - costs the dutch treasury a quarter of a million. so migration makes the country more populous and the treasury more army. and that is a fact which this parliament is having difficulty in accepting.
for the ppe group mr president, it does apply here that the later the evening, the cleaner the crowd. it's a very technical subject. we have no cameras, we have no press and we are talking about the heart of the single market. if there is one thing to be said about the european union, it is that it is a functioning internal market with enormous benefits for consumers and producers. this is a technical directive. when i was given the shadow reporting job on this, i did not have the impression that i was being given the insignia of the order of leopold of belgium, but that i was being allowed to deal with a very technical subject with mrs weiler and mr malcolm harbour. and it is a great honour for me - i have never said 'barbara' to mrs weiler - to be here today to hear her final speech. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). all this radio equipment is a big market, with a lot of uncertainties, a lot of bureaucratic obligations. we have tried to simplify this on the basis of the commission's proposal. and there will be no general registration of radio equipment, only the risk areas. the amateur radio operators are exempt, and so is scientific research. but the icing on the cake is indeed the generally applicable chargers. that's what's gonna interest the citizens the most. because i don't know if you have an apple 4 or an apple 5, but if it's a little bit clunky, two different chargers. and that is now being improved considerably.
i am very pleased with the agreement that has been reached, because it does indeed provide the fishermen and the fisheries sector with the opportunity for a good future. the agreement with norway in particular implies that stabilization of relations can take place and is in the offing. my contribution today is about the sea bass, the question that has been asked. because it's very clear that it's different there. it must be different! the commissioner is not correct in saying that the problem can be solved by decentralization, by regional the facts are that it is not being addressed, that the situation is deteriorating, that there is insufficient research, that there is no long-term management plan. and this initiative by mr cadec is aimed at changing that, at including fishing in long-term agreements which are sustainable and sustainable. so it's gonna have to be different. i think that the question put by mr cadec this morning also provides for those conditions for adequate scientifically sound information at european level. mr cadec has the right to speak. he has reached an agreement on the fisheries fund. it will be dealt with here next month. it provides for sufficient financial, human, technical and administrative resources to carry out investigations and also to carry out the controls properly. central, decentralised, of course subsidiarity is important, i know, but look at the results. i would ask you to convey this to commissioner damanaki so that she can come to the committee on fisheries and give an account of the good news she may think there is about mackerel and the inadequate results on sea bass.
madam president, i can say first of all that i fully support the guidelines as they are formulated in the resolution. we must emphasize all kinds of new opportunities to find work for those who need it. but i think under the budget for 2015 and all this year, there's a time bomb. first, the unpaid bills that are still coming in. i don't see how that can be resolved. that will be a problem not only for 2014, but certainly for 2015. it would be good if the commission would come forward with proposals as soon as possible. another time bomb is a point that has occupied me a lot in the past: the cost of the outbreak of contagious animal diseases. it's cost billions in the past. as far as i can find out, there is no provision in the budget to provide for this in the future. we cannot rule out that it will happen again, we will hope not, but i have asked the commission to put its thoughts on paper. if it could happen, we should be prepared to pay. and i still don't see how that can happen. the worst case would be if we had to cut the current payments to farmers as they are now provided for. because if there is an outbreak of an animal disease, the commission has to pay. we have also suggested in the past that it might be necessary to develop certain insurance systems. all these things would be possible. i would recommend that the commission should think about this as soon as possible. it seems that my amendment will not get a majority. i understand that many people find it a detail. i'd say a billion-dollar expense is no small matter. and i would recommend to the commission that it should develop ideas as soon as possible to deal with the eventuality. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, i would like to ask mr mulder a question about the first time bomb he mentioned, the impending unpaid bills, and in particular what he thinks the solution to this is. does that mean that more money should be allocated, whereas in the netherlands the vvd under prime minister rutte has always been in the lead with cutting, cutting and not too much money to the european union? i see a tension between what is being said in the netherlands by the vvd under the leadership of mr rutte and the possible defusing of the time bomb by mr mulder. maybe he can answer that.
"blue card" is the answer. interesting question from mr van dalen. i believe, and i believe my party always believes, that a government must be reliable and that the accounts, the commitments made, must be honoured. and so must the bills that are still coming in. but we have to find the money for that in the budgets. and i do not believe that mr van dalen is a member of the committee on budgets, but i am the rapporteur on the so-called 'rals' (delayed payments) and i will be handing over a working document to the members of the committee on budgets in the very near future on how the problem could be solved. i will make sure to send a copy to mr van dalen.
madam president, it is a pity that my honourable friend mr mulder has just left the chamber, but there is a recording here. i would also like to see a copy of his report, because the consistency of government policy in the netherlands and what is said here on behalf of that same party is very important, especially at this time of elections. i wish i'd said that. i think mr mulder is a very nice colleague. it's too bad he's just gone, because i want to be on that mailing list of his, too. madam president, parliament believes that the european budget can be a very powerful instrument for ensuring more strategic investment with european added value. those are almost sacred words: european added value. my objection to the european budget is that it finances many things which have no european added value. and something really needs to be done about that. education, employment, for example, are not european competences and the principle of subsidiarity - which is also endorsed here but also implemented - must be applied in full. the union must concentrate on its core tasks and use the funds available to them. financing of special instruments above or beyond the mff payment ceiling is unacceptable. the union, like the member states, must maintain a budgetary discipline. the financing of funds outside the mff does not fit into this.
president, the unforgettable american president ronald reagan once said: "the problem is not that people are taxed too little, but that governments spend too much". that is the crux of the problem with the eu. the eu intends to spend even more in 2015, even more in the bottomless pits of structural and investment funds where so much fraud is already taking place. the debts are piling up. but that's okay. the eu is going to put a few billion more into development aid. she's certainly not going to cut back on existing programs and instruments, because the show must go on. of course the pvv will vote against this budget. the rapporteur would like to stress that the citizens must be given the necessary tools to find a way out of the crisis. mr president, that is what is emerging from the crisis caused by the eu, not by raising taxes again, but by cutting expenditure deeply. and there is hope for the citizens to get out of this crisis, namely to go on voting in the elections on 22 may.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). unfortunately, public debt and unemployment are still at an alarmingly high level. on the other hand, we already see several members in this parliament who are eager to spend more money again. mr president, we are spending more money, that is yesterday's politics. we need a policy for tomorrow, a policy which gives citizens and businesses a chance to do so again, a policy which can deal with the opportunities and threats of the future. so two specific questions. one: how can we as europe make ourselves more independent of russian oil and gas as quickly as possible? two , you 're not . what do you think of the idea of spending less eu money in the richer member states and at the same time reducing their contributions? that way, we avoid the money being pumped around. finally, a question to you, mr president, and to the bureau: when will you come up with a proposal to make us parliamentarians fully accountable for the spending of our general expenditure? perhaps you could pass that along to mr mulder. he's a reporter on all kinds of things. let him take this, too. full accountability for the expenditure of the allowance for our general expenses. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i see that mrs hohlmeier is at least pursuing the same objective as i, namely that of huge diversions of all those european funds and that of reducing european money. she's already got some nice ideas about it. i've already put forward an idea. - i'm going to be fine. let's go together to stop this whole circus of pumping money around! i'd love to be a part of that! (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. president, thank you to mrs werthmann. i very much appreciate her following my contribution here with such attention and interest. i really appreciate it. and keep that up, because it's about that money and the shrinking of the eurozone. look, ma'am, we're already spending many tens of billions a year on countries like greece. the enormous sums of money we have already spent in recent years on various countries such as greece and cyprus far exceed a certain reduction in the budget we are now advocating. so i don't see why we'd have a problem with that. this is the way to save money for the future and to make sure that the eurozone shrinks. that is good for the countries that will be outside the euro area and that is very good for the eu member states that are inside.
in writing. - i am opposed to the principle of the public having to pay for the failure of private banks. however, i voted in favour of amendments[nbsp ]8 and 27 to support the retrospective recapitalisation of the irish pillar banks in solidarity with the people of ireland. the eu insisted on placing the bank debt on the shoulders of the people of ireland. this was recognised by eu leaders in june 2012, but no steps have been made to relieve this unjust burden.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr[nbsp ]president, in the light of the tensions in ukraine and aggression by russia, whether in crimea or in syria, it is easy to forget that russia is, in fact, a member of the council of europe and of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe. i believe president putin would prefer it if we were to forget about the domestic human rights situation in russia. but we will not. the treatment of the bolotnaya square demonstrators and, in particular, the house arrest of aleksei navalny are reminders of the pressure not only on freedom of assembly but also on freedom of speech in the media or on the internet. they are reminders of the severe repression exerted against russian civil society as well as political opponents. we must continue to condemn such human rights violations in the strongest possible terms, and we must and will show russia that there will be consequences. russia should, at least, act in accordance with the international agreements that it has signed up to.
author. - mr president, commissioner and colleagues, as the acp meeting commences in this house, we are forced to take measures in response to the laws which have been adopted in uganda and nigeria criminalising lgbti people and imposing very severe punishments. these laws violate the cotonou agreement, and we must use mutually-agreed human rights clauses under article 96 to deal with this very urgent situation. fuelled by religious evangelical extremists from the united states, a true witch-hunt is under way, with lgbtis being criminalised. these laws also hinder the vital fight against hiv and aids, and that is why several member states have already decided to freeze their development aid. such a move is very disagreeable, but it has been deemed necessary. we must make it clear that it is not our wish to see ordinary people suffering more than they already do in these african countries. genuine problems that impact on so many people, such as corruption, poor infrastructure, the need for more for development and education, and the need to end violent extremism, should be the focus of our continued active dialogues. we seek to cooperate, but not without sticking strictly to eu values and mutually-agreed treaties to which these african countries have themselves signed up. they must commit to respecting all human rights.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there comes a point when we need to prove that human rights are indeed a priority for the eu. in uganda and nigeria, governments and parliaments have wilfully made a decision to discriminate, and even criminalise, lgtbi people. it was not a spur of the moment decision. it was a thought-through one, despite all the protests from national ngos, international ngos, eu ministers, from us and from other institutions. now ugandan gays and lesbians may be imprisoned for years, as may the friends and family that support them. the situation is equally horrible in nigeria. this has already led to an increase in violence and discrimination against people. there can be only one conclusion from our side. uganda and nigeria are not living up to their obligations under the cotonou agreement, so preparations for their suspension must begin and we must review relations and aid going to these countries’ governments. if not, then we are obviously only moving air here.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the sinai is not so bad. i'd like to say, actually, especially for african refugees. the fact that they are being abused and even tortured by traffickers has been known for several years. we also know that relatives in europe are being blackmailed into paying ransoms. it is not new that successive egyptian governments turn a blind eye. but what is new is that since the military coup last summer, the gaza strip is back in lockdown and the economy in sinai is shifting from smuggling goods into the gaza strip to profiting from human trafficking. in addition, the egyptian regime is acting with a heavy hand against the bedouin, but in the meantime it is not concerned about the fate of the refugees. the egyptian military regime is back on good terms with israel as if mubarak never left, so it's not surprising that there are casualties. the call of this parliament is therefore: i would ask mrs ashton to call the ambassadors of egypt and israel to the table, to call europol, because we are witnessing every day the deaths of many people and the tremendous repression.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, tomorrow we will hopefully adopt the telecoms package, which is essential for a single digital market in europe. beyond ending roaming charges, which will benefit every european from 2015 onwards, we also need more access, broadband and net neutrality. millions of europeans do not have access to all sites, and it is important that blocking and throttling will now be illegal. however, more clarity is needed on the definition of net neutrality. together with my colleague, jens rohde, i tabled amendments to safeguard net neutrality and to define specialised services. let us be clear: we do not want to block these. we just need good definitions. by ensuring clear rules of the road for the eu digital single market and the open internet, competition, innovation and internet users will benefit. i want to congratulate commissioner kroes on her ambition and her vision. i hope she understands the needs of many european citizens as regards guaranteeing net neutrality. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
"blue card" question. what is it? a rather short question. i have just heard the first speaker of the liberals, mr rohde, say: "we support the proposals of commissioner kroes", and i hear you say: "we have the amendments to strengthen net neutrality". i would like to know whether the liberals are now going to vote with us, with the progressive left in this parliament, to strengthen net neutrality, or whether you are going to vote with mr rohde on the right and consider mrs kroes' proposals as weak as they are.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there's a lot of them in mrs. kroes's telecom package. we have called, as the liberal group, for the early abolition of roaming, for making it easier for people to use mobile phones across borders at lower prices and for the use of the internet, and we are in favour of net neutrality. you can read that in the amendments. it's crystal clear. amendments tabled jointly by mr rohde and myself.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for her proposal to connect the continent and to abolish the roaming costs. thank you too, ms trautmann, for trying to safeguard net neutrality. i know it is very much a challenge, but i would like the european parliament to lead on this very topic and not to follow. we have seen that all the developments on the internet are taking a very high, rapid flight. sometimes we stand there empty-handed, only watching in surprise what is happening. what is so important is that we create the future and future innovation on the internet. the impact of the definition of specialised services is going to be enormous, and i very much fear that the definition in both the compromises is not very clear, nor is the impact. so i propose that everyone uses what has happened in the netherlands as an example, because our law on net neutrality, i think, is a very good example for the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not an interim review. we are evaluating the policies on civil liberties, home affairs and justice, and we look forward to the next period. this report has some critical points. this parliament says: we do not want european passenger data or pnrs to be transferred. no system for tracing terrorist financing, so not a swift, like the us. no, this european parliament does not want that. we would like you to review the data retention directive. critical notes to the commission and the council, which are constantly proposing these proposals. there is no doubt that parliament is also opposed to the ideas that are in the council that internal border controls could be reintroduced. parliament also says: the european union is not a party to the convention on the rights of the child. we cannot have southern europe doing this. we are against the confinement of refugees in detention centres. in short, mr president, this is a progressive proposal, a progressive report, and i hope that in the vote this evening parliament will maintain the progressivity of this proposal and that the council and the commission will take this into account in their proposals for the future.
in this document, the european parliament calls for the abolition of the special legislative procedure and thus of all vetoes by all member states in all cases. and every party here, from communists to conservatives, voted for it. everyone here wants the member states to be silenced, and this parliament to become the absolute boss of the whole european union. this parliament can then itself rewrite the treaty, can itself impose taxes, can open all frontiers to everyone from all over the world and can admit countries from ukraine to uzbekistan. this is despite the fact that recent surveys show that citizens across the european union are in the majority for less brussels. in the netherlands, the figure is 70%, the same number who rejected the european constitution, which was then adopted. all parties have once again shown their desire to abolish the netherlands. and that betrayal, mr president, can be remedied in the elections on 22 may, because for the netherlands there is no other choice than the party for freedom.
the report we are discussing tonight - and i would like to express my appreciation for the rapporteur, mrs ayala sender - is essential on the eve of the elections. from what i've read, i've got a mixed picture. a stable number of cases have been discovered, but that is about all that can be said about them. vat fraud is still an extremely important problem. as i was in favour of a different system of own resources, i think that the vat system should be changed as soon as possible so that it is less prone to fraud. the european public prosecutor is also clearly needed to protect europe's financial interests. it is a pity that so many member states are against it. the commission should promote the dialogue with these member states so that it can come up with a proposal that satisfies everyone. i therefore think that a european public prosecutor is needed, but the commission will have to add the necessary water to the wine.
rapporteur. - mr president, first of all, the good news is that the error rate for the european development fund is lower than the average rate for the execution of the budget of the commission itself. three percent is still too high but i think that, as it is better, we can not complain too much. some general remarks. twenty-nine percent of the whole budget is still going to budget support. that is a political decision but, in line with the reports by the court of auditors and so on, i am of the opinion that it is money that is very difficult to control and i would urge the commission and the court of auditors to develop ways and means for improving it. another point is that we need more openness about the aid to haiti. we give a considerable amount of money to this country but, as far as transparency is concerned, we have a lot of things that leave something to be desired. the commission has published some reports which were opened to the members of the european parliament last week, but i think that is a bit too late and i therefore maintain what i recommended in my report. i hope that even the s&d group will vote in favour of that. another point that is a continuous source of concern for parliament is the non-governmental organisations. the amount of funds that we are giving to these organisations is increasing every year and i wonder if we really know what non-governmental organisations are. some of them are 100% funded by either the european union or by national governments. thus we can hardly speak of a non-governmental organisation any more. it is very much time for the commission to establish a definition of what exactly a non-governmental organisation is and, except in exceptional cases, also ask for contributions to come from another source than some kind of government source. final point: the european investment facility. i think it is a very good instrument but it lacks transparency as well. i would recommend to the court that it also look into how we can have a better view of what exactly is happening in this field of the commission’s work in relation to the european development fund in africa. i see that i have not used my time. mr president, i would ask you to give me the remaining minutes later on, in the debate about mr pieper’s report.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, given the fact that i have only one minute for all agencies, joint undertakings and our own house, i will limit myself to this parliament. as is the case every year, we grant discharge in paragraph 1 of our decision to our president and – in the same way as every year – the president has not been present in any part of the decision-making process on the discharge of our own house. this is a pity because it is the president who is politically responsible for both the budget and its implementation. especially in years when presidents find it necessary to intervene – and i have seen letters where the president is threatening to intervene, describing paragraph 47 as not fit for this resolution – i think that is really unacceptable. so i would like to ask you, mr president, as one of mr schulz’s representatives, to clarify that point before tomorrow’s vote and ask that the president in the next mandate should be present during the discharge procedure of our own house because that is his political duty as well.
i cannot support the discharge to the european commission. the error rates are way too high and have been rising since 2009. the european parliament, in view of the critical attitude of the citizens in the member states, wishes to decide to grant discharge, subject to certain reservations. i think that is wrong, unwise and once again unworthy of an eu institution which is supposed to represent the citizens. what needs to be done to improve financial management? because i can't do this anymore. many mistakes are made in the member states when they spend eu money. a voluntary national management declaration has therefore proved to be wholly inadequate. do the european court of auditors and the european commission agree with me that a mandatory national management declaration of good quality and comparability would be a major step forward in financial management? what are the european commission and the council going to do to make real progress in this area? the reports show that in some member states there is still a lack of effective control of expenditure. what timeframe do you propose for action? the elections are coming, mr president, and there is a great deal of scepticism in my country, the netherlands - which i do not share, because we have our responsibility - but we must not feed scepticism.
president, i would like to quote again a statement made by former president ronald reagan in this debate on the 2012 audit: you can't be for big government, big taxes and big bureaucracy and still be for the little guy. the picture emerging from the 51 audit reports is one of an ever-expanding eu: more spending, more burdens, more bureaucracy. although a small critical note is made here and there, the sad reality is that hard-earned money is disappearing into the deep wells of brussels. it is a bunch of double-crossing, cronyism, handing each other jobs, keeping useless projects inundated with money and regulating europe to the hilt, with ep president schultz at the forefront. the eu is a monster that has no, i repeat, no added value for the lives of dutch citizens. today, a voice of hope in politics is sorely needed. hope for a better future, a future without financial worries, and a good job, income, good education and care. a future for our children and grandchildren. a future which is therefore by definition outside this eu. it is time for the netherlands to choose that future. i haven't lost that hope. and with me many dutch citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. i agree with his conclusions and for the first time with the reservations in it. that is a cause which the liberal group and i support. for eleven years this parliament has been asking for a member state declaration. it is only in the last year, and i am grateful for that, that the commission has taken up this matter and set up a working group to give shape to this declaration by the member states. but everything depends on the management declaration. and, as far as i know, that management declaration, its template, its proposal, is still not settled. if so, no template for a member state declaration can be created either. how far has the commission come? furthermore, and i am glad that mr caldera is still here, we are sticking to the 2% rule. i think there are a lot of arguments for doing that, that's internationally established. but is it really realistic to ask member states to achieve a 2% margin of error for eu funds, when the member states themselves in most cases do not achieve that 2% standard for their own budget in any case? does the court have any idea how many of the 28 member states meet the 2% standard in the implementation of their own budget? and again, is it real to hold on to that? is it not the work of sisyphus, whose end is never in sight? finally, as regards the last point: president barroso declared ten years ago, at the beginning of his term of office, that he was absolutely certain that after five years there would be a positive declaration. we're almost ten years later. whatever the assessment of mr barroso's presidency, in terms of budgetary control he will receive an excellent assessment and i am one of those who find that extremely regrettable. i hope that i can once again see a positive statement, but not as a member of this parliament.
it was decided 11 years ago that the aviation sector should play its part in the ets. everyone agreed on that, even the aviation industry. and with tires swaying, the clock had to be stopped in 2012 and in 2014 it was decided to postpone the implementation for the umpteenth time. there's a beautiful expression in english about the boy who cries "wolf!" and after he cries twice, and he cries the third time, nobody believes him, and then the wolf walks into the village and eats the boy. the airline industry is a bit like that. every time they say, "we need a little more, we need a little more". how long does "even" take? how long? it is time for the aviation industry to really make a contribution, and that will not happen if politicians do not send that signal. and not when the council simply bypasses parliament's position that all airlines should pay for their emissions in european airspace and is shockingly lobbied by the aviation sector. now we are faced with a choice that nobody wanted, and that means we can either head for an aviation crisis, or we can go rogue with our climate policy. it is a pity that it has come to this and we have to choose the least bad option instead of the best. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
blue-card answer. – dear colleague, i must say that your question is more of a statement than a question but i will answer you very clearly. europe has at some point decided that it wants to lead and i think that is a very good ambition. of course, we must see whether we are being followed, and that is currently the difficult situation – we want to lead but currently have no followers. there is a way in between but i think that this is not the way.
mr president, the european union is often considered an economic giant and a political dwarf, but i am afraid that by adopting the outcome of the trilogue we are making this dwarf even tinier. this debate is called greenhouse gas emission trading, but it has less to do with climate than with the position of the european union in the world. by extending the stop-the-clock we are doing nothing less than rewarding china and other countries for their economic blackmail. we are sending the message that if you do not agree with legislation that we are adopting in our own continent, in our own airspace, you just pick one or two big companies and you say you are going to boycott them and we will bow to your demands. we will pay for this politically because we will become tinier and tinier politically, and in the end we all know that if you become a political dwarf, you will pay economically as well.
mr president, let me start with a quote: ‘but let me be very clear: if this exercise [of icao] does not deliver ... then needless to say, we are back to where we are today with the eu ets. automaticallyʼ. that was connie hedegaard in november 2012 when we were deciding on stop-the-clock for one year. what we are doing now is extending it for another four years – and this is because the icao process delivered? what did it deliver? this: to develop a global deal for 2020 and, by the way, we may readjust our own targets as an icao beyond 2020. that is what the process is going to do. so when we say that we were so successful in getting icao moving, then why are we giving up all the pressure through this deal, because now there is four years of nothing? brazil has already not attended the next icao working group meeting, the pressure is off and we know europe has lost.
i am pleased and proud that this outgoing parliament has now achieved something for consumers and smes. i fully share the four objectives of the rapporteurs: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of mobile telephones. with this package, if it is adopted, we will be able to pay more safely, more easily and cheaper throughout europe and this package will give a boost to ecommerce. and we could use a boost for the european economy. it is also good that we are finally breaking the duopoly of the two credit card giants. i also find it rather funny how they react to the vote in the econ committee by saying: this is terrible, now consumers will be turned on their head by retail. so, in other words, you'd be better off getting your ass kicked by us than by the shopkeepers. now, that seems to me to be a fair recommendation for the vote tomorrow. finally, i hope that the member states will be wise enough to support this package in this way, because so far they have done nothing but lip service.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, or at least the commissioner who is replacing you, mrs hedegaard, and also thank the whole commission for the directive we have drawn up here on payment markets and also on credit cards, on interbank charges for credit cards. this will finally put an end to all kinds of things that have been going on for 20 years, especially with mastercard and visa. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative and that parliament, after some internal hesitation, is finally following the commission's proposal in general terms. you can say that this directive and what parliament is going to adopt tomorrow will save 6 billion euros compared to the costs that are being made now and that could be even more if we maintain the maximum of 7 cents for debit card transactions. that is another exciting vote tomorrow, but i hope that parliament will stick to the econ vote here and that we can do even more for consumers, as the commission has just said, and certainly not for mastercard and visacard. what is also important is that we end the unfair subsidization of all kinds of luxury credit cards and that we end unnecessary charges for the use of card payments. all of these things are very important for the consumer and indeed for the retail trade. and i would like to point out to my colleague in the field that the credit card companies are now being so critical because they are now saying that a lot of money is suddenly going to be available for retail. that shows how much money is at stake and how much they have saved so far. so i hope that we in the plenary can follow the econ committee.
mr president, this is the last time this parliament will have a debate with the high representative and i cannot help thinking that she must feel a slight relief. i hope her successor will consider this parliament an ally and work with us closely to make sure we develop stronger european leadership in a world with an increasing amount of major challenges. in our own neighbourhood – from ukraine to turkey, from egypt to syria – cynical power politics are back and the eu has barely begun to shape up and act as a global player. for too long the euro crisis has overshadowed the other crisis – that of europe’s position in the world – but it is, more than ever, clear that from trade to defence, from human rights to development, we must act strongly together or we stand divided on the sidelines. we must rethink and rebalance interests and values and choose the side – and the rights, freedoms and opportunities – of a global young generation. european leadership begins in our neighbourhood. i hope this leadership will become stronger, more tangible and comprehensive. we have no time to lose.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to begin by complimenting high representative ashton and her team on her leadership in the negotiations and the achievement of an interim deal on the nuclear dossier, along with the global leaders and iran. now, some people ask: why we would engage with the controversial islamic republic of iran at all, beyond the nuclear deal? the answer is simple and clear: welcoming iran back out of isolation towards better and more constructive relations with the eu and the rest of the world helps us, but mostly serves the iranian population. they are the country’s most valuable asset. their human rights, their well-being – especially that of women, who suffer disproportionately from the systematic repression in the country – are at the core of our focus. i am glad that nasrin sotoudeh took time to visit us last december, and i am glad that high representative ashton took time to visit with gohar eshgi. we also have other issues of shared concern, such as the rise of extremism and terrorism in the middle east, whether it comes from jihadists or whether hezbollah, with the support of iran, is responsible. we must address this. we can also work with iran in seeking to curb drug smuggling, but there should be clear pre-conditions that suspects do not receive the death penalty, which we of course strongly condemn. the window of opportunity is clear, but immensely fragile. let us do what we can to work with the rouhani government to try to turn promising words into concrete actions and reforms which will benefit the people. they cannot wait to see more change. we can best push our interests and values by opening an eu representation in tehran, which is one of the key recommendations of our report.
i would say let us be careful not to be too optimistic about iran. i hear mr rouhani speak well, but let us look at his actions. the number of executions has reached record levels. minorities are in a lot of trouble. many christians are in prison, often in beastly conditions. i shall name five of them today, and i have also obtained their consent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. these five iranians are in prison simply because they are christians and want to practice their faith peacefully. i have here the file on these people and their circumstances. i am going to give that to mrs ashton and ask her to speak in the talks with iran on behalf of these five people, who unfortunately are a symbol for many of those who are persecuted in iran.
does the islamic republic of iran deserve the political credit that this resolution gives its leaders? i'm sure you didn't. and i do not want to illustrate the duplicity of the iranian regime by the longstanding nuclear dispute with the international community and, as an open-ended example, the military aspects. the close involvement of the iranian revolutionary guards in international drug smuggling and trafficking is equally revealing. it has already fallen here a few times this morning, only a little bit in the vein of iran is the fighter of this, no iran is active in this. the word 'drugs' appears in two places in the resolution, in paragraphs 6 and 13. for example, europe and iran should join forces to combat drug trafficking in afghanistan. it is undeniable that many members of the revolutionary guards lost their lives in bloody clashes with drug traffickers in the eastern provinces of iran. at the same time, however, it is evident - and new literature points to this - that the same revolutionary guard is itself a major player in the afghan heroin industry. speaking of iranian duplicity. i don't see a word of it. i hope that the council will not only take note of this, but will also examine it. i quote: "we are told that drugs will destroy the sons and daughters of the west", said a defected member of the revolutionary guard. should we take such a strong warning seriously? i sure do! when i look at the drug rings around the world from the revolutionary guard, all the way to latin america and north america. and her faithful cousin hezbollah
thank you, mr president. i regret that mr schulz himself is not present at this vote today and i would also very much like to have checked whether or not mr schulz has increased his daily allowance today. maybe he was campaigning again. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i abstained on the report by the committee on legal affairs (juri) on the request to waive the immunity of mr borghezio, because in principle i believe that it should always be up to the competent authorities of the member states to decide whether any criminal acts have been committed under their national law. the juri report contains subjective inferences about mr borghezioʼs statements, which may be seen as pre-empting the competent national judicial authorities of italy in their appraisal of the case.
"blue card" question. what is it? i think it is rather inappropriate for the honourable member to link a tragic accident in which a girl was killed to the fact that we now have to vote against the extension of the ecocombi's possibilities. i think that is inappropriate, because he is obviously not aware of the research reports produced by the netherlands, among others, where we have been experimenting with the ecocombi for some time. these reports show that the ecocombi does not make traffic less safe because it is equipped with extra facilities, extra mirrors, extra cameras, because there are additional training requirements for the driver and the ecocombi is only used on certain routes. so, colleagues, please stop with this kind of insinuation.
for the ecr group tomorrow this parliament will have a unique opportunity to improve the environmental performance of road transport. that will happen if my amendment no 72 is adopted, which will allow the ecocombi to be used across borders. given the fantastic experience of the ecocombi in my country, it is almost inevitable that this house will support my amendment tomorrow. because the ecocombi is good for the environment: we have less traffic jams, road safety is not reduced and the cost of infrastructure is kept the same by the extra axle of the ecocombi and the use of the ecocombi on certain routes. but perhaps i am too optimistic about the chances of my amendment. perhaps too many colleagues are being led by doomsday images and doctored photos so close to election day. if my amendment is not adopted, i have a question for commissioner kallas. is it true that if mr leichtfried's proposal is adopted, the current legislation on ecocombs will remain in force, including your latest interpretation of the legislation? i want you to answer this point and this question clearly and concisely, because that is a very important question.
i would like to ask mr ertug: what research, what analysis, leads you to conclude that the deployment of the ecocombi will cost billions to adapt the infrastructure? i'm not familiar with that investigation. on the contrary, we have been working in the netherlands for several years now on experiments with the ecocomb. it is used on fixed routes between certain centres, and there are all kinds of requirements for it, and the investment we have had to make in the netherlands in infrastructure is 0.0 euro! how did you get ... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all may i sincerely thank the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i would particularly like to thank the three rapporteurs, mr pirillo, ms paulsen and mr fajmon, and their shadow rapporteurs for their hard work in compiling the reports before us today. i believe that these reports form a solid basis for future progress, both in the council and under the next parliament. we will not agree on everything, of course, but there are a lot of points where both council and parliament could agree, with the help of the commission. let me comment briefly on each of the three elements in turn, starting with official controls because this has been mentioned by a number of meps. the proposed new rules on official controls seek to help member state authorities to deliver their control and enforcement. it is useless to have a law if they do not have the means – financial or human resources – to enforce it. so consumers and honest businesses should be reassured that control efforts meet two objectives, namely safety along the agri-food chain and the countering of possible fraudulent practices. in order to achieve this, we need an adequate level of funding. funding for these official controls is essential. therefore, it is true that the proposal provides for mandatory fees that would enable the recovery of the costs – not more – incurred by the competent authorities in charge of controls. you will be aware of some public spending reviews, which are being carried out in the member states and which are affecting the number of controls performed by national authorities across the food chain. this reduction can have potentially devastating consequences. the horsemeat scandal – which was never a food safety issue but a serious issue of fraudulent labelling – reminds us of what might happen if we lower our guard and do not have enough controls. therefore, the sustainability and credibility of the control system as a whole is at stake. when fees are necessary – as in this case – it is the duty of the regulator to ensure that they are applied in a fair, equitable and transparent manner. to achieve this, we need to have clear and uniform methods for the calculation and application of fees, and stringent transparency requirements. we also need to ask all sectors to contribute, in contrast to the current system where only some businesses are charged. however, micro-enterprises across all areas will be exempted. this means that 80% of all operators will not need to pay fees. in addition, the other 20% will be inspected on the basis of risk. this will allow for better prioritisation of controls and a more efficient allocation of resources. so an enterprise which is law-abiding would face fewer controls and therefore fewer expenses. the proposal also provides for improved tools for cross-border cooperation between competent authorities. this will ensure that cases of non-compliance which have effects in more than one member state – as usually happens in a single market – are actively and effectively remedied. the mechanisms for cooperation in the area of food fraud that the commission has been piloting in recent months will be strengthened under the new regulation. one of the proposals is that, when we have a scandal like the fraudulent labelling of horsemeat, the pecuniary penalty imposed on the company breaching the law must be at least equal to the illicit gain made from the fraudulent labelling. finally, consumers and importers of animals and products will benefit from a modernised border control system. what does this mean? it means documentary and identity checks on all consignments, physical checks based on risk, simpler procedures and full use of electronic documents and certificates. this is the border control system as suggested in this proposal. turning now from official controls to animal health, our main objective is to introduce a single piece of legislation to regulate animal health in the eu. we need a simplified system, because in this way we can better detect and control animal diseases in the framework of the farm-to-fork approach to food chain safety. i am aware that the number of commission empowerments in the proposal has raised some concerns. however, i would like to remind the members of parliament in this house that our proposal brings together 37 different directives and regulations. these currently contain 600 empowerments. we are now going to reduce these empowerments to 163. we also need flexibility in our animal health legislation. the commission’s proposal aims to strike the right balance between due deliberation and swift action in response to emergencies. in particular, i note that some wish to see the list of diseases relating to animal health and species adopted in an annex to the regulation. the commission maintains that the adoption of this list through implementing acts is legally sound and is practically and technically necessary. after all, this is not a new approach. it is in line with much of the current animal health legislation, such as the lists of diseases affecting aquatic animals and requiring union notification. if a new disease were to emerge, for example one similar to schmallenberg but with more serious effects, the commission would have to take swift action to combat it. therefore, the commission needs the flexibility to easily amend or adapt rules in response to the development of the disease. as i said at the beginning of my address, i welcome many of the amendments in the report by the committee on agriculture and rural development which are constructive and within the spirit of the proposal. however, i would caution against pressing for amendments that could perhaps go against our common goals. for example, there are amendments being proposed that would allow member states to restrict the movements of animals or products within the eu if they themselves judge there is an animal health risk. this would be a step backwards, because it risks undermining our existing systems and the internal market. there are certain amendments – as ms paulsen said – on animal welfare and antimicrobial resistance. we recognise that these are important. animal welfare and amr are becoming increasingly present in political agendas, and this is extremely positive. this is why the commission believes that they need to be considered separately and specifically. the commission is already taking steps to improve the implementation of what we already have in the current animal welfare rules and of what we have already achieved, particularly for laying hens and pregnant sows. as regards amr, let me assure you that we will continue to deliver on our action plan in this year. finally, regarding plant health, the proposal on plant pests would introduce important new elements for phytosanitary protection and the sectors concerned. these include regulating pests on the basis of established criteria for risk assessment and management, prioritising those pests with the most serious consequences, general measures for eradication, surveys and notification systems to ensure early action, uniform plant passports to certify the health of plants – so not only horses have passports, but also plants – and principles for risk assessment and risk management. i should stress the importance of the import rules set out in the proposal. these offer the possibility to prohibit or restrict pests, through appropriate measures, in response to identified and well-assessed risks. they would also allow the provisional suspension of imports of plants posing hitherto unidentified risks. this precautionary approach would strengthen the current import requirements, ensure preventive action wherever necessary, and support our importers in satisfying the considerable eu market demand for plant products from outside the eu under safe conditions. we also need to adapt our measures to a dynamically changing environment of pests and trade. therefore, our import strategy must be easily adaptable to scientific and technical developments. let me recall the following examples: the western corn rootworm, which was introduced into the eu in the 1990s through material of non-eu origin; the red palm weevil, an insect which arrived with palm trees from egypt and was notified by spain in 1996; the pinewood nematode, which was first found in the late 1990s in portugal and comes from north america or china; longhorn beetles – damaging for broad-leaved trees – which are regularly detected in wood packaging material from china; and the xylella, a newly detected bacterium in southern italy, in the region of apulia, which is now attacking many olive trees. in many cases, owing to insufficient controls and/or untimely reactions – and despite subsequent efforts and budget allocations – all these pests have proved impossible to eradicate. therefore a pro-active approach is necessary – sorry if that is a cliché, but i think it is the only appropriate word – combining the strengthening of the import regime with swift detection and eradication measures. many of these new elements will be accompanied by financial incentives through the regulation for the management of expenditures, to which i am glad the european parliament has already given its agreement. the union will co-finance costs linked to the early detection of new pests through survey programmes. it will also co-finance costs linked to eradication measures, including through compensating owners for the value of their destroyed plants. i look forward to a fruitful debate.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - the envi committee takes this animal health law very seriously. i would like to thank my colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs of the envi committee very much for the good cooperation. it is a pity that a significant part of the opinion of the envi committee has not been taken up by the agri committee, because there is a really clear link between animal welfare and animal health. this report is the best place to express that. i believe in the principle that prevention is better than cure. why unnecessarily remove so many animals in the event of an outbreak of animal disease and put farmers in a very big predicament when you can prevent such situations with preventive policies? for example, by discouraging animal hoarding in areas or by rewarding farmers who give more space to their animals and not forcing them into intensive livestock farming. but also by limiting the endless transport of animals. this will help us to reduce the risk of unnecessary spread of disease. mass evacuation should only be a last resort. that does not mean that we should just give all animals preventive medication. because the problem of antimicrobial resistance is lurking and responsible policy is therefore needed, and very quickly. finally, i would also like to say that this legislation is ideal for building in traceability of cloned animals and their offspring. ninety percent of clones are stillborn, and the rest are largely diseased. so this is a subject that does indeed belong in animal health legislation. at the same time, consumers can be informed about the cloned product on their plate. two birds with one stone, that seems to me to be very efficient.
i shall speak on the report by my honourable colleague mr fajmon on plant health. of course, the right measures against disease are needed. however, amendments have been adopted in the committee on agriculture and rural development which go far too far. the plant sector has sounded the alarm. people fear rules that are unworkable. a closed system is not the answer. the plant trade is coming to a standstill. it means high costs and long procedures for the plant sector, even when there is no chance of disease. so that's what we call in the netherlands "shooting a mosquito with a cannon". what's the way forward? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must keep trade open. separate votes have been requested on these amendments by the epp, the ecr and the liberals. - very good. ladies and gentlemen, let us all work together to remove these protectionist elements from the report. that gives room to the plant sector in europe and also gives room to developing countries which export a lot of plants to the european union. i am counting on common sense in the vote on this tomorrow.
first of all, i wish mr dehaene a speedy recovery. fortunately, he has found a very capable substitute to speak for him tonight. as regards the outcome of the negotiations, i would point out that we negotiated in the midst of a very serious economic crisis and that we agreed to a budget reduction. this is quite unique, because despite the austerity measures in the member states, budgets are still rising in most of them. so as far as i am concerned, the european parliament has set the right example. i think the main problem is that the problem of own resources has not been solved and we have set up a committee to deal with it. if the budgetary authority makes certain commitments, it is very difficult if one part of that budgetary authority then says: we have made the commitments, but we have no money to pay. so you have to reduce the budget for payments. that is a system that is hardly working and i hope the commission will find a solution. finally, i believe that a five-year period is ideal for a multiannual budget.
today is a historic day in the history of economic and monetary union. the agreement on the european banking resolution authority is the final building block of the banking union. in addition to the ecb's supervision of our banks, problem banks can now be dealt with at european level. that is crucial for restoring confidence and also for restoring the important role that banks play for our smes and for our economy. the position adopted by the council of ministers in december was inadequate on crucial points. the voting proportions would favour a few large member states in the first years and this political interference threatens to undermine the strict and equal application of the rules for the restructuring of failing banks. the agreement will ensure that it is not the taxpayer but the shareholders and investors who pay for the failing banks. this is true not only of portugal and ireland but also of french and german banks. this will encourage shareholders to focus more on managing risk responsibly than on maximising short-term profits. i would like to thank my colleagues, but also michel barnier, the presidency and eurogroup president jeroen dijsselbloem, for making this agreement possible. this is my last speech as a member of the european parliament and vice-president of our group. i am proud of what we have achieved in overcoming the euro crisis: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the economic governance, six-pack, two-pack, aimed at responsible fiscal policy and strengthening the competitiveness of member states, financial sector legislation and, today, the final piece, the banking union. we are on the right track, confidence in the euro and the eurozone countries is returning. the economy is recovering, but unemployment is still unacceptably high. it takes time, but here too the trend is turning in the right direction. finally, the point is that we in europe and in the member states deliver what we have agreed. this is crucial for our society, because it leads to the recovery of smes and also to jobs for our citizens and in particular for our youth, and that is what matters.
- i'm the reporter. - may i say that i am proud that after almost ten years, we have now settled this matter once and for all? pensions are of great importance to the ageing and longer-living population in europe. if you are punished for working in another country, it does not help freedom of movement. we are already seeing more and more young people studying in one country and working in another. this proposal should ensure that there are no disadvantages but also benefits in taking advantage of the free movement. the proposal now before us on the portability of accumulated pension rights is in fact a continuation of what we already have in the 1408 coordination regulation. pillar 1 pensions are always paid for the years of work in another member state. that was not quite the case for a second pillar pension, the supplementary pensions that you often build up in business. now we give this member of a pension fund the opportunity to join earlier: as a german working in luxembourg, you can start to build up a pension at the age of 21. and secondly, if you've worked for an employer for three years, you're also sure that this pension won't be lost. this proposal is in line with the principle of free movement. we also think it is very important that someone with a dormant pension should be treated in the same way as someone who already has a pension and thus be indexed, because dormant pensions are usually not beneficial. but this condition is now part of the package. i have another comment on the question of equal treatment. people who use the freedom of movement are treated better in some member states than a worker who moves from one company to another within a country, for example germany. a number of member states must also take action on this point. we have a good proposal here. i thank the colleagues who have worked on this and it is not just the colleagues who have worked on this in the last six months. all those who have preceded us in the two partsession have also made their contribution. with the support of the european commission and after very hard negotiations by the parliament's delegation, we finally succeeded in getting this proposal, which is so important for free movement (people know: i am not going to be harmed.
the rapporteur. - the society is currently undergoing an incredible number of demographic changes. people are living longer, getting older, getting richer, but they all want a decent income. and that adequate income comes for the most part from the first pillar, the exchange systems. and they're paid by the people who work. the number of employees is shrinking. this means that intergenerational solidarity is under pressure. i said to my colleagues in the green paper and later in the white paper: we must ensure that we work longer, but also that more people are employed. that means those who are now on the sidelines will also get a job. but there's something else. if we want to ensure adequate pensions, we must build up reserves and save, whatever pillar we are in. i sincerely hope that the recommendations in the white paper will be given further consideration in the member states, because they are, after all, responsible for pensions. because it puts an enormous strain on our society. that's one. and furthermore, this directive is consistent with what we have said. what we're going to do now is: the commission has already proposed that the supplementary pensions should not be withdrawn after three years' service. this means that action must also be taken in the member states themselves, because there are still people who have fewer rights. the accumulation of pensions starts at the age of 21. there are still some member states which have to change their ways on this point too. a sleeper and an active person should be treated equally. until we have a european tracking system where you can always see what you have built up, the written information now sent to every former employee is of the utmost importance. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this.
companies which post workers to another country are rightly bound by the terms and conditions of employment in force in the member state where the service is provided. for this to really work, strict enforcement is essential. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the provisions of the secondment directive are not infringed. the new enforcement directive is therefore indispensable. compliance with the posting of workers directive contributes to the protection of workers and to a level playing field in the free movement of services. i welcome the improvement in article 9 on national control measures. member states do not need authorisation before they can carry out control measures, but they must report them and publish them clearly. it is also good that the cross-border collection of fines is being made easier. finally, the agreement on chain liability in article 12 obliges member states to take measures to combat fraud and abuse in construction subcontracting chains. that's certainly welcome. and not just in the building industry. i therefore ask the commission whether it would also propose this for other sectors where it is very important to combat unfair competition, such as the transport sector.
a new directive to maintain the existing posting directive is therefore needed. it's crazy as hell. i quote the european commission: "postings can play a crucial economic role by filling temporary labour shortages in certain occupations or sectors, for example construction or transport". end of quote. let it be these sectors in the netherlands which have been completely destroyed by the secondment directive from brussels. the netherlands has no shortage of labour, but expects the construction and transport sectors, among others, to be flooded with cheap labour, particularly from eastern european countries. the tile-maker and the painter from the provinces have to compete with their cheaper colleagues from eastern european countries. the commission believes that this is good for competition. but that is not competition, that is the destruction of dutch employment. tens of thousands of people in sectors like construction and transport are unemployed in the netherlands. not because there is no work, but because we brussels bureaucrats, who are strangers to the world, are no longer allowed to decide for ourselves who can come to work in our country. the solution is therefore to let the member states decide on their borders and on labour migration. the dutch people will be able to vote on this on 22 may.
the inta committee was very much against it, because you have to choose here. do you choose unlimited freedom of service or do you choose the prevention of all kinds of evils? the final result is above all a promotion of freedom of services. employees in small businesses who refuse to cooperate with shady practices are left in the cold. a missed opportunity. that's how you work with closed lists. this means that you cannot, for example, check whether an employer is trying to break a strike with posted workers from other member states. the commission should also be able to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. this reduces controls rather than strengthening them. the main shortcoming is that equal pay for equal work is still not achieved for pensions and social benefits in the case of secondment. this requires amendment of the posting of workers directive. the present commission was unfortunately not prepared to do so, but i hope the new commission will do so.
mr president, this directive is not going to mend all the loopholes which exist in the free movement legislation. it is not going to make sure that no more european workers will be underpaid, bereft of social rights or living in circumstances that are unfit for human beings. but although this directive will not save the world, it will improve the lives of a large number of people. labour inspections will have more instruments to check on posted workers. member states will be forced to work together better; they will have the power to address abuse better; they will be obliged to inform workers better. would i have wanted more? yes, of course, but i cannot imagine voting against this. if this compromise will improve the lives of even just a few people who are treated horribly now, i can only vote in favour. and immediately after that, we need to start working even harder to really rule out exploitation of all workers in europe.
it is a strange thing that we have doubts about a possible ban on plastic bags in europe. there's a country in africa, rwanda, that's known for banning plastic bags, and i would say, if rwanda can do that, then surely we in europe must be able to do that too! the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. a reduction is being proposed and that is also badly needed. the average use of plastic bags in europe is currently 200 bags per person. so that is one bag every day and a half, whereas we could end up, as ireland and finland have shown, with four bags a year. this is now a typical case of what everyone wants in europe: less plastic waste, which is also bad for tourism, less plastic in the food chain, less plastic in the sea, which is bad for fisheries, and also less plastic in the wild. sometimes less is more. the commission has put forward a proposal which could have been a little more ambitious. there are no mandatory targets. you have just explained why that is not possible. we in the european parliament do not agree with that. we have therefore set mandatory targets and a clear reduction target in the short term. we are giving five years for something which, if measures are taken, can be achieved in three months. but a hard-line lobby has been set up, arguing that the proposal is not feasible and that it would also be bad for industry in times of crisis. well, the do-more-with-less industry, innovation, is what's going to create jobs in the future. this is a real win for europe. the european wants to get rid of plastic bags, so he asks, four out of five want to and have indicated that. we're going to deal with that. but then, at the vote tomorrow, everyone in the european parliament must vote for it. and that seems to me to be a useful thing to do, especially in the run-up to the european elections, when the majority of europeans have also indicated that they want to do so.
i would like to thank mrs auken as rapporteur and commissioner potočnik for their excellent work. it's these kinds of issues, like the plastic waste in our environment, that motivated me to go into politics in the first place. a huge social problem that society itself is unable to solve. and then politics comes into play, and they can do this. it's obvious we have a big problem. that has been brought up by previous speakers. 100 billion plastic bags a year in the eu! and so much of it ends up on the streets and eventually in the sea and in the water, that 70% of all the plastic waste in the north sea comes from these plastic bags. 70%, not a little bit, no, three-quarters of all plastic waste comes from these plastic bags. there's hardly a seabird in the world that doesn't have plastic in its stomach. that's the problem. and maybe someone can explain to me what kind of political ideology wouldn't want to solve that problem? from the far left to the far right. and can someone explain to me what economic interest is so astronomical that you wouldn't want to solve this problem? i wouldn't know. and the beauty is: the european people agree with me. we had a pilot project in the netherlands for three months. within three months, a few cities reduced plastic waste from those bags by 80 percent. and the beautiful thing is that 90% of the people who responded, the citizens, who we all end up doing this for and who are going to have to vote for us in a few days, were very keen to get involved to do even more to address the problem of plastic waste through these plastic bags. so i 'll sum it up: we have a huge environmental problem. that's easy to fix. and the european people almost unanimously want us to do the same. i think we politicians have nothing left to wish for. this is almost a wet dream for the politician, so let's solve it. i therefore call on all my colleagues to adopt this report unanimously tomorrow. and let us sit down with the council as soon as possible after the elections in may to get this problem of the 100 billion plastic bags out of europe as soon as possible.
on behalf of the green group, i would first of all like to thank my colleague, mrs margrete auken, very much for drawing up this report to tackle plastic bags. many colleagues have already said how serious the problem is. people say , oh, is the eu now also dealing with plastic bags? but if you tell people that there are 100 billion plastic bags, and only 6.6 percent of them are recycled, then people also realize that this is a problem that you have to address. it is also always interesting to read the commission's impact assessment. the commission also makes it very clear that the most efficient way of tackling the problem of these plastic bags is to have a very clear reduction target combined with a price. it is therefore a pity that the commission proposal did not really translate what was in its own impact assessment, but i know that this is not the fault of commissioner potočnik, but perhaps of some of the senior people in barroso's cabinet. but, anyway, we can't talk about that right now. fortunately, parliament has tightened up that legislation and has set a reduction target and a price. the members on the right of this house who say that the amendment on which they are voting tomorrow is against the single market are usually the same politicians who always complain that europe is too regulation-oriented and does not leave enough freedom to member states. at the moment italy wants a ban and is being sued for being against the single market. i think it is time that italy simply enforces its ban and that the rest of europe addresses the problem by reducing plastic bags. all those right-wing politicians who always complain about european rule-making should not vote tomorrow on an amendment to make that ban impossible.
for the ppe group i would first of all like to congratulate my esteemed colleague, mr carlos coelho, and his shadow rapporteurs, but i would also like to thank the commission and the council for helping to take this difficult problem a step further, to help to solve it. we all know that boat people and asylum seekers who come through the southern borders are a very vulnerable group, a vulnerable group that we really need to protect and to which we must pay close attention. we can't have people drowning. the fact that we are speaking in front of an empty house indicates that the problem is a matter of urgency. the next time a boat sinks, all attention is focused on it, but it is difficult to find a more structural solution. at the same time, we must not give in to populism, to nationalism in this election period. people deserve to be saved. but saving him isn't enough. i would also like to ask for more attention in the somewhat wider debate tonight to the causes of the boats and the causes of the refugee problem. this is a complement to the story of carlos, who is very committed to the protection of asylum seekers. we, and certainly the european commission, should pay more attention to the so-called 'failed states'. we cannot solve all the problems in eritrea in europe. we can't bring all the people from somalia to our side. we cannot solve the problems which are now being faced in the central african republic. the old unhcr principle of hosting these refugees in the region also deserves attention. and then the border guard on the southern borders of morocco, libya, tunisia and egypt. the eu should also pay more attention to this. the cooperation agreement with morocco is in force, the agreement with tunisia is under negotiation. libya is obviously very difficult and we have to see what happens in egypt. one of the elements in this discussion, and i really want to emphasize this, is disembarkation in the countries of departure. so it is not just about lampedusa, it is also about disembarkation in the countries of departure. finally, landing in the eu, first quick check and more solidarity from the northern member states.
i would like to speak about the possibility of landing refugees and drowning people in a country outside the european union. i assume we are talking about north africa in particular. i assume that's a theoretical possibility that's not possible at the moment. let's face it, on the high seas, you can't judge whether an individual is entitled to asylum. you can't have lawyers doing their work there, you can't have translators there, so there's no possibility of a serious consideration of a personal matter. in addition, all the countries in north africa are currently countries which do not fully implement the geneva conventions, which do not actually have facilities for refugees, which are not safe states in our eyes at the moment. i see this possibility for refugees and stranded persons to land outside the european union as a handshake to member states who think that this will serve their home market, but i assume that this will not happen any time soon.
rapporteur. - in 2010, the commission published a report on citizenship entitled 'dismantling the obstacles to eu citizens' rights'. the commission noted at the time that one of the main obstacles facing citizens in europe is: the registration of vehicles from another country in the country where they live. these citizens elected me, but also the other members and even the ministers in the council. the commission's proposal to simplify formalities and conditions has been received enthusiastically, at least in our imco committee. in consultation with colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs, we now have a good proposal from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and i would like to mention three important aspects which have improved and simplified the dossier. firstly, the mutual recognition of technical examinations in the member states. once a technical approval has been issued, you can use it in the member state where you are until it expires. secondly, there will be a national contact point in each member state which will provide information to citizens who wish to transfer their car or to companies who wish to register a car. thirdly, the national databases containing the data of car owners will be linked, creating a kind of european database. this makes it easier to check who the owner is and whether he meets all the requirements for registering and owning a car. this system is called eucaris. we then decided as shadow rapporteurs that it should remain a regulation, as the commission had proposed but as the council did not want. in the recitals we ask the commission to examine in the evaluation whether it is possible to insert a chip in the number plate and in the car, in order to better control whether the holder meets all the requirements. for example, in the netherlands - and the netherlands is a very small country - there are an estimated 300,000 cars driving around that are uninsured because they commit license plate fraud. it'll just be your kid getting hit by a car that's uninsured. but because of the free movement of persons we also see a great many cars of other nationalities driving wildly through europe and if there are already 300,000 cars in the netherlands driving around without insurance, then there is a very high chance that this will also happen in other countries and then it is good that there is a check. that control could be done with a chip and we are asking the commission to look into that. we also ask for an inquiry to be made into the possibility of giving professional car owners a uniform colour for their licence plates, so that it is clear, particularly in border regions, whether or not they are professional car owners. we think of garage companies and dealers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council - and it seems to be doing so intentionally - said in january that it did not want to negotiate further and asked for an additional impact assessment. i am very angry about this and i think it is disrespectful that the council is once again running away from this report. i would have asked minister venizelos to reply now to the letter of questions from the chairman of our imco committee, but he is running away, i think because he is afraid to answer it, and i am very sorry about that. i shall continue to deal with a number of other matters in my second speech. i thank you kindly and look forward to hearing what the colleagues have to say.
- i'm the reporter. - i would also like to thank commissioner tajani for the pleasant cooperation, because we have achieved a number of things. unfortunately, not here with this dossier, but that is not the commission's responsibility, nor is it the parliament's. the council, however, is conspicuous by its absence and the more i think about it, the more i begin to get angry at the way in which the council has actually treated this matter with disrespect. i believe that the ministers in the member states are elected by the same citizens who feel disadvantaged by the difficulty of enrolment. i have here a letter with 300 signatures from belgium alone from people who say: we want it to be faster and better. the belgian police simply take advantage of the ambiguity and throw people on the spot. i can't really do that. it is good that it has been reaffirmed as a regulation, because we want to treat all citizens equally in all member states. it is a shame that the council is proposing to put this into a directive, because we want to treat all citizens in the same way. if you put this into a directive which has to be transposed, we have problems with different transpositions per member state. that creates ambiguity and confusion. malcolm harbour just called me "sometimes a little bit exotic", but i believe that if you don't have the courage to think innovatively, you will never make a difference in our society. you have to be able to think innovatively, to come up with new ideas out of the box, and i'm actually someone who loves that a lot. so i will continue to do that and i hope to come back here after this debate after the elections. but i would like to make one further comment, and then i will close, on the misleading article in the english press. if you put an article in the press in this way five weeks before the elections, which has caused great excitement and concern to all our british colleagues, then that is a restriction on the freedom of expression of this parliament. that is a limitation on the way politicians should be able to operate. and i hate that that's happening in england. i just wanted to say that. once again, i am very upset that the council has left and now my closing words. i would like to thank you, because this is my last debate in this mandate and i hope to return, thank the commission, the council, everyone, for the pleasant cooperation, but finally i would like to thank malcolm harbour, because we have been together in the same imco committee for 15 years. we often discuss certain subjects because we have different opinions, but in the end we always reach a compromise. because malcolm harbour is a gentleman, and i try to be a gentleman as a dutchman, but sometimes i can't. i want to thank malcolm for the excellent way he's run the committee, for the friendly way we've been treating each other all these years, so here's to that, malcolm, chapeau.
mr president, it is today that with the utmost respect we remember. we commemorate the tens of millions of soldiers and civilians who died during the first world war, which started a hundred years ago. all soldiers do die, but the heroism and miseries remain. at this very moment there are only a few brave men left who can talk about the horrific events of the second world war, which started only two decades thereafter. both those wars started because governments failed to take steps when they were needed most, and in that i see a parallel with the europe our ancestors fought for and the battle we are trying not to lose right now. beware, our enemy is now within our very own ranks and is listening as we speak. europe must be liberated from the junkers’ one-way coalition, which has the end of creating just one euro-country, with no way back. that will be the end of europe. charlie chaplin showed us the true face of the great dictator with his clownish but deadly serious silent movie and we must prevent history from repeating itself again and again, by observing the causes of war and conflicts. mr churchill once said, during the second world war, that never was so much owed by so many to so few. i feel tremendous forces in this room. i hope hesitation and other pragmatisms of our governments, this parliament and the united nations will not cause a democracy such as ukraine to be lost to putin and his comrades and i hope there is no soul on earth who thinks that forming a european army and one european fatherland is an answer to such a challenge. this would be disgraceful to the memories of our soldiers who defended our nations during the great world wars last century. just like constitution and country, peace and prosperity are also intertwined but not the same thing. this parliament and this european union have the same objectives as the out-of-control leaders of the world wars: to create a state as powerful as possible on the european continent. the true freedom fighters nowadays are not found in this house, they are the voters who will make clear on 22 may that they oppose the unlawful and dictatorial occupation of their nation states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that the facts are quite clear. we are now seeing in the east of ukraine a repetition of what happened in crimea. putin said that there were no russian troops in crimea. there were russian troops in crimea. they invaded crimea and annexed it. it was a tragi-comedy and now it is happening again in the east of ukraine. there are no russian troops whatsoever. russia is constructive, looking for a dialogue, wanting to protect russian-speaking minorities and wanting a federal ukraine. let us look at the facts. russia is repeating a strategy which started in georgia, moldova and transnistria. in crimea it is starting all over again. it is now time to act. first, in the long term, we have to invest in nato, in our common defence – the european member states of nato, the united states and canada – because whoever wants peace has to be prepared. nato is our key focus. we have to have a european energy community, because the best approach is to tell mr putin to keep his oil and gas. with oil it is less difficult than with gas. we have to prepare for further sanctions which will hit the russian economy and putin’s clique, and we have to be united. we have to act and not just talk. the resolution we will be adopting will be the start of action.
the association agreement with ukraine was supposed to be the beginning of a new future for ukraine and now, six months later, crimea has been annexed by putin and threatens to start a civil war in the east of the country. putin is doing everything he can to disrupt the elections scheduled for may. we do not know how far he will go, but to create and feed unrest ourselves and then ask the united nations to intervene is sad. instability is the fuel of the russian political model. how sad. tomorrow in geneva the conflict will have to be resolved, but if there is no progress there either, europe must be prepared to impose tougher sanctions on russia. neither russia nor europe have benefited from the break-up of ukraine. ukraine should not be a wall between east and west, but a bridge. stability is in all our interests. the pressure on russia must be increased by means of tougher sanctions and above all to bring the solution closer to the negotiating table, where it must be found.
the russian aggression against ukraine is unacceptable. the flagrant violation of internationally guaranteed borders and the destabilisation of sovereign states can no longer be tolerated. the krims scenario is indeed now having an effect in eastern ukraine. our patience is running out and we have to take sanctions that really hurt. in addition to these sanctions and speaking with one voice in europe, we will have to do a number of other things. we will have to sign the association agreement with moldova and georgia very soon - it has now been announced that it will be signed on 28 april. we must also strengthen our strategic coordination with the united states and with nato. we too will have to reduce our energy needs very quickly. we cannot allow our energy dependence to be reduced to russia. we must also strengthen the eastern partnership, and not just with words, as we have always done, but now also with deeds and means. what is also important is that we are helping poland, but also the baltic states, and also strengthening them militarily. the citizens of ukraine have the right to choose their own future.
- i'm the reporter. - i would like to make a request under rule 175 of the rules of procedure. we have a proposal to simplify vehicle registration in europe. this is one of the major grievances of citizens in europe, according to the european commission. and that's three million citizens a year, citizens who elected us. i would like to thank the commission and the shadow rapporteurs for the balanced proposal before us. but i'm angry and disappointed and offended. the negotiating team was prepared to reach a compromise with the council, but the council withdrew without giving any reason. last night the council walked out of the debate in a demonstrative manner. this is not in the interests of the citizens and we as a parliament are offended because it is not in the interests of democracy. the council also refuses to reply to a letter written by our president, mr malcolm harbour, in february to find out the real arguments. it is a great disgrace to the cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a result of these lies, i have been personally threatened in the netherlands by people who believe these lies. i hope, together with mr cameron and also my party 50+, that referendums on european union will soon be held in the various countries of europe. in protest at this, i ask, in consultation with my group and the shadow rapporteurs, that the vote be postponed until after the elections.
in writing. - the pvv has a strong commitment to animal welfare and safety is also an important issue. that is precisely why the pvv cannot vote for the animal health regulation. firstly, the proposal contains a very large number of far-reaching delegated acts, which give the european commission a great deal of power. the pvv also believes that prevention of (the spread of) animal diseases can be much better achieved through sound cooperation at regional and national level through the competent and well-equipped bodies.
i would like to thank all the rapporteurs who have contributed to these reports. i agree with the contents of those reports. i think that, despite the fact that the treaty of lisbon has given the european parliament more powers, there is no other option than to approve the current system of own resources agreed by the council. that means, and i agree with many others, that the current system is not a good system. it is not possible to explain why the budgetary authority, the council and parliament, approve certain commitments for the future and then, by the time the accounts are received, when the budget for payments has to be approved, those same member states of the budgetary authority say: unfortunately, we have to cut back, so it is logical that the european union should cut back too, despite the commitments made in the past. that is not a system for europe, nor do i think that a local authority or any member state could work with it. so i too belong to the large group of people who think that europe needs its own new system of own resources. that does not mean that we are suddenly going to tax, etc. the system of own resources already implies that we make certain agreements on certain european taxes. import duties are a european tax, vat is a european tax, and there is agreement on this. what was first proposed to the commission was nothing new. it has been there since the beginning of the european budget. the system clearly needs improvement. member states refusing to pay for commitments made is not a system that can be worked with. so i wish the monti working party every success. i hope that when the budget is reviewed in 2016 new proposals will emerge which can be discussed here in parliament. i have said before that i believe that the next multiannual budget should be for five years. by then we will also need a system of own resources which provides much more certainty than now, which does not have many exceptions and that is understandable. we shall have to try to achieve all this in the new parliament in the next seven years.
former vice presidential candidate sarah palin once said: "the elite wants you to sit down and shut up, but the way forward is to stand and fight". that is also true today in this debate on the possible own resources of the eu. they should never come, because they rob the citizen of even more honestly earned income. the eu does not represent a people, has no legitimacy and is not supported by the dutch citizen. the eu elite has two fingers in its ears and is shouting very loudly that the citizen should be silenced, but he will not. i have not been silent either and i am so glad that more and more dutch people are standing up and fighting. fighting for a free, independent country. i've done that, along with my amazing colleagues and team, for five years with everything in me, and i'll continue to do that. - why? - why? as robert kennedy said , few will be big enough to turn history on their own. but each of us can work to change a small part of events. and in the end, all those actions will write the history of our generation. i'll close with a quote from the monk jonas, who foresaw centuries ago: "oppression is freedom and dignity disappears". so, away with the eu and long live a free netherlands!
as many speakers before me have said, there is very important legislation on the table. but important does not mean that it is the right legislation. i would have liked to have stood here proudly announcing that after all these years we had finally succeeded in reforming and modernising the whole system of own resources. how sad that this has not been achieved, that we still have a completely opaque system, where member states trade in cows behind closed doors, without any influence or insight on the part of the citizen. without the european union funding being fair. unfortunately, we have now sealed it up for another seven years, and what is more, it has only got worse than it was before. let us work very hard now to prevent a repeat of this fiasco in seven years' time. so let the high-level group do its best to achieve that and let my own country, the netherlands, which will take over the presidency in 2016, start working now to make that mid-term review of the current mff a success. allow me to take an extra ten seconds to thank colleagues jutta haug and, of course, colleague jan mulder very much for their enormous efforts over the last 20 years. this is the last debate for both of them. if there are two people in this house who have made a tremendous effort to own resources, it's them.
the existing system is certainly incomplete and complex and i hope that the monti group will come forward with proposals to optimise and improve the existing system. but the monti group must not go on creating even more european autonomy in the whole debate on budgets and european taxation. if there is one thing that is truly peculiar to the member states, it is the right to levy taxes. this should remain the starting point for the discussion on the revision and reform of the existing system. it is best that the member states contribute a fixed percentage of their gross national product to the european union, and as far as i am concerned, that percentage should never exceed 1%. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. finally, a word to my colleague, mr mulder. we have not always been in agreement on this, jan, but i have great appreciation for your expertise and your continued commitment and i wish you all the best and blessings for the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as so often, the council is absent. i think that this is a disgrace, given that it was actually the council who back in 2005 put a lot of pressure on this house to rush through the legislation in a very short period of time. and we see the results now. it was bad legislation and i really do not want to say, as one of those who voted against the legislation, ‘told you so!’ so i will not say ‘told you so’, but maybe we should learn from this experience. it should not be for the courts to undo what we have done. we should make legally sound policies. that is our responsibility as politicians: not only policies that are politically expedient but policies that are legally sound. i think, mr weber, your call for a new data retention directive is slightly premature because, before turning to the national laws, i would like to point out the fact that we have been waiting for a real evaluation for years. and the member states have, to date, completely failed to provide any evidence, even a scrap of evidence, that this has made our world safer, mr weber. that is precisely why this massive data retention is considered to be disproportionate by the courts. turning to the impact of this: first of all i would like to hear the commission assessment and, if the assessment by the commission is unanimous, i would also like to know the assessment of the impact on national laws. apparently they are not invalidated automatically, although – and i find this peculiar – if the courts say that the foundations of the directive are unsound or disproportionate, how can the national laws transposing the directives be proportionate? what will the commission do? will it start a sort of inverted infringement procedure if member states refuse to repeal the national laws? in the netherlands we do not even have a constitutional court that can actually check the constitutionality of the national law. is it imaginable that national data retention laws will simply remain in force if data collected under those national laws are used by europol, for example? what does that mean? is europol then also violating the law? what if telecommunications companies simply refuse to continue to collect and store the data under national laws? i would also like to know what the commission believes are the consequences for other programmes for mass storage of personal data, like pnr, swift, eurodac, licence plates and everything else. the european commission is currently funding the creation of national systems for the storage of pnr in 14 member states. does the commission then agree that this funding is probably illegal? finally, to the commission and mr weber, yes, we want to keep our people safe, but with really effective laws. we have not had any proof of the effectiveness of data retention. so, will the commission consider a wholly new approach with less intrusive and smarter means to keep our people safe? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr weber, i actually think the problem is the opposite. i think it is unacceptable that member states do not repeal their national laws if they are clearly in breach of fundamental rights. i think that what you are proposing is policy laundering. yes, we want to keep our people safe. that is why – and i repeat what i said earlier – we have laws that actually help keep our people safe. i would like to get the first piece of evidence, mr weber – you who defend massive data retention – that this has helped. i called on the commission – if you listened carefully – to say whether it will make proposals with a wholly new approach. can we please have smart laws that protect our people and also respect fundamental rights?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of personal data. the court of justice's ruling is clear: the european data retention law should never have existed. all mass surveillance measures need to be reviewed, and quickly. i think that the pnr agreement with the usa has suddenly become illegal, as has the agreement with australia, canada and south korea, which is on the list, and the desire of the commission and member states such as my own country, the netherlands, to set up their own passenger name record system. they can be in the dirty. and then swift. i advise europol to stop now handing over our banking transactions to the us, because it is illegal. snowdon says the british spies are tapping our internet traffic, copying it and storing it. so that's not possible anymore. the secret services should also respect fundamental rights. this data retention law cannot be fixed, it requires a different approach and that too must be done quickly. we can change our detection methods and work on quick freeze, for example. we don't need a new law for that at all, we can do that now. one thing is certain, if we wait for our governments, we wait for st. juttemis, the dutch state secretary steven needs another eight weeks. i'm calling on all telecom and internet companies to stop storing information about our calls and our emails now. our governments have lost their minds, they will not prosecute us anymore. so be civil disobedience and if you don't, then citizens will go to court. thank you, your honor, for choosing privacy over fear.
blue-card question. – mr[nbsp ]voss and the epp group, are you implying that the european court of justice does not care, has not considered the safety of european citizens? can you please provide us, after eight years of asking for it, with evidence of the effectiveness of massive storage of personal data? it is not only our telecoms data that has been stored, but all sorts of data, which has not prevented big terrorist attacks ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. the house is practically empty, whereas the subject we are discussing here is of particular importance. this is really a cartel and it could affect a huge number of consumers and also to a large extent small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. it is very important that we ensure in this law that consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises in particular can be compensated more easily and effectively for the damage they suffer from cartel formation. that's the whole point. this will affect every consumer and is therefore of particular importance. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr schwab, very much for his cooperation. we have had some heated debates, but it has been a very good process and we have finally reached a good overall balance. i would therefore like to thank mr schwab for the pleasant cooperation which has always been 'hard on the substance, soft on the person'. that is also the right way to get good legislation. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the fact that we have come to legislation which takes the protection of consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises into account. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states. so far it has been very difficult for whistleblowers to come forward to report a cartel, because they are often visible and therefore more likely to have their pants claimed. i think that this legislation makes it easier to do so. all in all, a good balance. i'm satisfied with the result. of course we would like to see further steps on collective narrative, which will surprise no one, certainly not mr schwab. but we see this agreement as a first step in that direction and i very much look forward to having further discussions in the future, hopefully also with mr schwab, on the next steps towards collective narration.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, since i completely agree with what all my colleagues before me and the commissioner have said, i am not going to repeat that. what i am going to do in my final speech during this mandate is emphasise the fact that this report shows the problem-solving capacity that we have in the european union. people often believe that we are slow, that we are divided, that we do not cooperate, but with a strong commissioner, a strong rapporteur and a very cooperative attitude by shadow rapporteurs, and even a council that is willing to solve problems that we are facing, you see that in a few months we can solve problems and i think that is something worth emphasising as well in this house. finally, let me take the opportunity to thank not only my colleagues for the great cooperation of the last couple of years, but especially commissioner janez potočnik. i know that he has been working under very difficult circumstances; being the commissioner for the environment at the time of an economic crisis is not the easiest job in the world. i think he has done a great job, not only for the environment but also – and this is something that i would like to emphasise once again – for the economy. we have to understand, and commissioner potočnik is one of those fighting for this, that sustainability might be even more important for the competitiveness of europe than for its environment and that is something that we should never forget. i hope that he will continue his fight and that not only the commissioner for the environment, but also the commissioners for industry and competition understand the economic relevance of sustainability.
this is my last intervention and i would like to take this opportunity to first of all express my thanks to the commissioner, who has really done everything in his power to develop a greater vision so that waste and the efficient use of resources are the future. it was in times of crisis that we looked back. you looked up and said: there is a very different future possible, where we can go from a green world to a more efficient world, ultimately a better world and also a more innovative world. i want to thank you for that. much has been said here and much good has been said about the shipment of waste and i fully agree with that, because as waste is the future, we must deal with it better. i have seen in the past few years here in the european parliament that waste can be an opportunity, a huge opportunity, but that for many people there is still a really high waste pile. it's big business, whether it's illegal or legal, and we hope that eventually everyone sees the future and its potential, and all of it in a legal way. there are too many differences between the countries of europe, including in the field of inspection. that is why it is very important, whether it is banks or waste or any other sector, not only to introduce new laws but also to monitor them. this is true of every sector in europe. after all, it is not for nothing that the english say: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a call for the next commissioner to be just as visionary and indeed to be in the forefront of control as well as the efficient use of resources.
the resolution we are voting on this afternoon states that the european union and vietnam can count on a well-developed bilateral dialogue on human rights and that human rights should be considered as an essential part of european trade policy. that is why i would like to draw your attention to the dire situation of christians in vietnam. i am grateful to mr rinaldi for having already spoken about this. recently, the ngo open doors released its annual ranking of christian persecution. vietnam was 21st last year and 18th this year on this gloomy list. christians are hindered by a multitude of rules. for example, the authorities of bắc ninh province presented so-called provisions on a number of specific issues on the management of religious activities in the territory of bắc ninh last november. the bill would require religious institutions to seek permission for any activity they undertake, from organizing services to repairing buildings, and that while there is already a suffocating amount of regulation at the national level. in đà nẵng, continuous raids are taking place to drive catholics from their homes. on 27 march a neighbourhood was closed off by police, army and security forces. people were being evicted and their homes bulldozed to the ground. mr president, i ask the commission's negotiators to bring this lack of freedom of religion - vietnam has a religious political police - to the attention of their vietnamese counterparts as a matter of urgency, so that the human rights clause is not a dead letter but actually part of european trade policy.
author. - mr president, the use of blasphemy laws in pakistan is disturbing and not in line with what we believe are universal human rights. minorities and apostates specifically suffer from the application of these laws and the very high sentences that go along with them. blasphemy laws hinder free expression to such an extent that the country has been requested by the un human rights mechanisms to repeal them. additionally, hundreds of so-called honour killings were reported in 2013 alone. we cannot consider the human rights abuses in a vacuum. the eu has recently granted gsp+ status to pakistan, subject to the implementation of human rights conventions. so we call on the pakistani government to turn the de facto moratorium on the death penalty into a real abolition of the death penalty, to speed up the reform of madrasas and end hate speech in the name of religion. we call on them to stop censorship, specifically of the internet, and to revise the anti-terrorism, as well as the draft ngo, legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would like to ask him to make a few comments on the situation in the region. a brutal, anonymous murder ended his inspiring, fruitful earthly life. it is a great loss, first of all for the future of his syria, but equally for us here in europe, because father van der lugt was an independent critical mind, from whom you could learn a lot, his sharp analyses. at an early stage in the syrian spiral of violence, he foresaw the great danger of the fury of satanic salafism. today a large number of european jihadists are partly to blame for this. that certainly should have been mentioned in the resolution. that brings me to another omission in the resolution. it does not do justice to the real events of the jihadist attack on the syrian northwestern border town of kessab last month. the resolution does not say a word about turkey's involvement in naked terrorism against an almost entirely armenian-christian civilian population, the descendants of the survivors of the 1915-1917 genocide, who were forced to flee again less than a century later for their own safety. i call for a thorough international investigation into turkey's role in the bloody islamic aggression against the people of kessab. i believe that the european union should also take the lead in this. after all, turkey is a candidate country. or is there, i fear, a european taboo sometimes resting on ankara's disastrous middle east policy?
author. - mr president, it is hard to believe we are ending this parliamentary term, and the discussion on human rights with a resolution on syria. we need so much more. may the contrast between the horrors on the ground and the lack of members in this house for every human rights resolution debate be a wake-up call to all of us and a reminder of how much more the eu can and must do to protect human rights. in fact, a majority of europeans want the eu to protect human rights first and foremost. with more than 150[nbsp ]000 people killed, more than 6.5[nbsp ]million people internally displaced, more than 2.5[nbsp ]million syrian refugees in neighbouring countries and no end in sight for this horrible war, what more do we need to be convinced about? today we focus on minorities and their vulnerable positions – ethnic and religious minorities, but also women and children, suffer disproportionately among the civilian population that is increasingly crushed between jihadist extremists and a murderous regime. i want to pay tribute to a dutch priest, father frans van der lugt, who was killed in homs on 7[nbsp ]april 2014. human rights defenders, intellectuals, journalists and civil society activists continue to be victims of this horrible crisis, and so is the 2011 sakharov prize winner, razan zaitouneh, who was kidnapped together with her husband and two other human rights activists more than four months ago. we call for her release. the assad regime has used sectarian polarisation as a survival strategy, so may we ourselves be careful not to fall into the trap of emphasising differences in the plight of one minority over another. let us stand united in recognising that the rights of minorities are inextricably linked to the upholding of other fundamental human rights and freedoms, such as the right to liberty, security and equality, and the right to freedom of expression. a negotiated peace will require buy-in from all stakeholders, including iran, the gulf states and russia, and it should lead to a society where all syrians can live freely. but what a long way away that is.
author. - mr president, where to begin in addressing the systematic human rights abuses in north korea? we cannot condemn with enough conviction the extermination, murder, enslavement, torture, imprisonment, rape and sexual assault and forced sex work for women, forced abortions, censorship, and effectively the total isolation and systematic repression of the people in north korea. with all this horror in mind, the prison camps are of specific concern. we support the european external action service in following up the commission of inquiry’s recommendations, specifically in the icc referral and in seeking punitive sanctions in the un security council. but we should also address russia and china through human rights dialogues and see what they can do with their influence to improve the situation of the north koreans, and of course we ask the government and the authorities to begin to respect the basic rights of their own citizens.
mr president, i too would like to say welcome to my new colleagues. mr van rompuy, i have been listening to you and mr barroso this morning. i was expecting an exciting and inspiring speech that would give us plenty of new, innovative ideas. instead, it feels like i am in jurassic park; i get an image of an ossified, paralysed council that is stuck in the past. it is not driving change; it is trying to block it. and i have to say, mr farage, that this is with the enthusiastic support of your side of the house. you talk about your side of the house as eurosceptics. eurosceptics are people who think, who may have doubts about europe. however, that is not actually the case, because over there i see a collection of people ranging from downright anti-eu to anti-immigration, homophobic and anti-semitic forces – they are not just middle-of-the-road eurosceptics. (applause) it is indeed time for change. it is not the time to paralyse the eu even further or to dismantle it. we need to make it stronger and better able to act and respond adequately to the expectations of our citizens, in particular the ones who are going through very rough times at the moment. we need more democratic legitimacy, not less. therefore, i would like to take up the words of mr kamall and say: let us work together in this house, with the commission and with the council, across party lines and across borders, to make europe stronger.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all, we should salute the ukrainian people for having organised independent, free and fair presidential elections which brought a clear result: that is the result of democracy. the russians talked repeatedly about ‘the fascists of maidan’ and ‘the fascists of the interim government’. but it was not they who won. the extremist vote was very small and this was a very good election result, given also the fact that crimea was under russian rule and russian was intervening in the eastern part of ukraine. so let us salute the ukrainian people and their new democratically elected president. secondly, president poroshenko has his 15-point programme and we should support him in this because he wants to talk with all sections of ukrainian society. he wants to talk about decentralisation within one ukraine – the ukraine we have all recognised, including crimea and including, of course, the east – and president putin should now do what he sometimes talks about. he sometimes speaks words of conciliation but his actions are different. if he really wants peace, president putin needs to stop all help to the separatists – all help. he should patrol his border and he should come to a free and fair agreement with ukraine on oil and gas. he should also accept international law, and that means that crimea is not a part of russia. putin now has to accept international law. that is the most important thing, and what we should do is demand russian action rather than talk and, if the action is not satisfactory, we should impose further sanctions because in the end that is the only way to keep russia on the right side of the russian-ukrainian border.
this is a special moment, because my first contribution to the plenary debate is about a problem which has been of concern to many in europe in recent months: the future of ukraine. it is important that the violence in the east of that country be brought to an end as soon as possible. a military solution to a political problem mortgages ukraine as a whole. a political solution means talking. finally, everyone should see the need for dialogue and the government in kiev should also be prepared for far-reaching decentralisation. then on the role of russia. the eu has been in intensive consultations with russia over the consequences of the eu-ukraine free trade agreement in recent weeks. the council is not the only one to have to deal with this. but let me be clear: russia cannot dictate how a bilateral agreement is implemented. moscow will have to accept that ukraine has made this choice and cannot impose unilateral interpretations of the trade agreement.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, a year and a half ago – with the necessary heavy lifting and political leadership – we kicked off the negotiations on a comprehensive trade and investment partnership. but those days, when vice-president biden liked to talk about finishing the deal on one tank of gas, seem a little bit far behind us at this moment, one-and-a half years down the road. it seems as though the americans have chosen an exceptionally environmentally friendly car to drive in. in any case, i think that they and maybe all of us should step on the gas to keep the very important momentum that started these negotiations. for our group, jobs and growth without government investment, the opportunity to set global standards and meet competition from emerging economies, and eliminating unnecessary bureaucratic burdens, remain the essential points on the horizon. we have to find ways to preserve our cherished standards when it comes to food safety and the environment, as well as fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy. these are points which are being raised by people all over the eu, and i think it is good to have an active debate. transparency and active engagement are essential to acquiring consent at the end of the day. so, commissioner, my question is: how will you help dispel the feeling that quite a few people have that there is not enough clarity on where the process of negotiation stands, and that there may not be enough space to participate while there may be enough space for corporations to have access? now the investor-state dispute settlement (isds) consultation seems to show that there is great interest. i have heard a number of rumours about the amount of consultation submissions which were received. perhaps you could also say something about the amount of responses that came in, as well as when you expect an initial assessment or final assessment. do you believe that ttip is possible, from the american point of view, without isds? is this a negotiable point from their side? but with all these challenges, we might almost forget that there are also non-controversial issues and opportunities, such as procurement. for the eu, it is crystal clear that the us market should open up for our businesses, to end explicit protectionism through the ‘buy american’ and ‘buy america’ acts, as well as implicit protectionism through national security clauses, as seen in the jones act, which restricts access for european ship builders and operators, as well as domestic flights by european airliners. is there any progress on this point?
the united states is our greatest ally and, after the european union, the largest economy in the world. so of course a trade agreement with the united states offers many advantages. but we do not want those advantages at any price. the treaty must not only be for the benefit of europe, but also for the benefit of european citizens and not just for a few investment companies, fast-moving bankers or large multinationals. because then we will never regain the trust of all those citizens who stayed home for the european elections. the profits from a possible trade agreement should go to metalworkers whose contracts are under pressure or to the many young people who are at home because they cannot find work. if this trade agreement is to lead to anything, it will lead to more jobs, to jobs, jobs, and more jobs, that is what it is all about. what we cannot import with this trade agreement is the disposable jobs from the united states. our european workers earn decent wages and have good protection against redundancy, so that they do not need to take a second or third job to get by. in short, we are happy to cooperate in a real trade agreement, but not at any price!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to warmly congratulate the lithuanian government for the commitment it has shown to integrating into the eurozone, and its government for fulfilling all the criteria for entering into the eurozone. the entry of lithuania is yet another historic landmark, since the three baltic countries will now become fully integrated into the european structures, and the s&d group fully supports that. while lithuania fulfils the criteria for entering the eurozone without any problems, there is one problem i would like to draw attention to and that is its high unemployment. i would like to call on the lithuanian government to take every possible step towards lowering this unemployment rate and raising employment. in summary, the s&d group looks forward to welcoming lithuania into the eurozone, hopefully by january 2015, and i hope that we can agree by a large majority on this position in this parliament.
the youth has the future. that is a saying that we know in many of our european countries, but unfortunately it is no longer taken for granted in europe today. let us make sure that we do give our youth that future. let us avoid speaking here of a lost generation of young people who want and can work but do not have the opportunity to do so. the youth initiative and the youth guarantee are important instruments, but they are not panaceas. it cannot be a panacea, because the fight against youth unemployment must first be fought in the member states themselves. let us not therefore be tempted to hand out large project grants from europe, but let us focus on sustainable reforms in the member states. economic and labour market reforms. reforms in education to better match the needs of the labour market. reforms to give entrepreneurs the peace of mind and confidence to start a business, especially young entrepreneurs and start-ups. only in this way can we achieve a lasting improvement in employment. i would like to ask mr andor one more question on the following problem: the young homeless are one of the most important or one of the most vulnerable groups of young unemployed. the current european instruments do not seem to be adequate to meet the challenges facing this group. what can we do together to give this group a future in europe?
the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. so a targeted approach to youth unemployment is a top priority; this requires better integration of education into the labour market and therefore more investment in education, preferably in the sectors of expected growth, but also in apprenticeship schemes, traineeships and entry-level jobs and, in my view, in schemes where older workers take younger workers under their care and teach them the tricks of the trade. we must also look at our industrial policy to create jobs for young people who like to work with their hands, to prevent the lower educated being displaced by the higher educated on the labour market. our young people deserve a future and therefore a budget larger than the present six billion euros, a higher age limit than 25; this should be increased to 30. europe loses the support of its people when half its young people are out of work. my question to the commissioner is therefore: what can you do and what can we do to increase support for greater political ambition in the fight against youth unemployment?
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the united kingdom to comply with the treaty. the sp does not support this.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the united kingdom to comply with the treaty. the sp does not support this.
we have a new parliament and we have a new commission. a fresh start, encouraged by mr juncker's words yesterday: invest in growth, jobs, competitiveness. but there is a great shadow over this new start, because what is the state of our own payment ethics? i hear from universities and from cities and regions that the bills for work done one or two years ago are not being paid. we have adopted a new directive on the structural and investment funds. we have adopted a late payment directive. pay within three months, that's standard, that's the moral. as rapporteur and coordinator of the regional development and cohesion committee, i have a major problem here. the commission is postponing the accounts to 2015 and even 2016, but that does not solve the problem. this is even more difficult now that the council has cut budgets considerably. what about 2014, the year of the commission's new start and the new mff period, is there any investment at all? is there any fresh money? is that available? it cannot and must not be that 2014 is and will be, in all fairness, a lost year when it comes to investment. that is the essence of my message. i have a few questions. can we have transparency in september when we start our new activities in the committee on regional development? the figures we have now are from march 2014. which member states does the council consider to be in difficulty? will you, as the commissioner said, be prepared to accept that smes are going bankrupt because of this payment morals? how does that work? and can we then regain the confidence of the citizens and send a real message to the new commissioners? this is going to be a crucial point, even in the hearings.
the european commission is again calling for an increase in payments for this year of over eur 2 billion. it says it has insufficient funds to pay the expenses of final recipients of european subsidies. that argument is not convincing enough. there are also budget lines where not all the money will be used. every year the european commission says that it has too little money to meet its obligations towards the beneficiaries of subsidies. however, over €1 billion was left over from the 2013 implementation, which the european commission transferred to the 2014 budget last april. so there is money left over to be found in the other budget lines. the european commission is thus required to make up for shortfalls. the council, parliament and the commission have a responsibility to do better next year, i.e. to make fewer new financial commitments for 2015! this breaks the pattern of over-commitment in relation to the level of payments, which leads to an increase in payments over the course of the year.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the events in iraq and in fact the entire middle east are very worrying but the situation does not come out of the blue. the islamic state (is) was able to grow in syria’s war circumstances with the toxic help of certain gulf state actors. the islamic state grew in a climate of sectarian politics fed by respective iraqi governments not doing justice to the pluralism of the country. the post-iraq war instability and damage, and broader problems of a social, economic and political nature led into a very explosive scenario we are looking at now. now the illegitimate claims of the caliphate by the islamic state, mass executions and the imposition of sharia law are against universal human rights and they must end now. but we must also be realistic about the islamic state, not give it more weight than is proportionate. for the entire situation in iraq we need a political situation and the sovereignty of iraq should be respected. the call for independence of the kurdish region is understandable but also potentially invites a more explosive situation that will benefit no one at this point. we know that is has a number of european fighters and recruiters and the danger they will present too when they return to our societies should not be underestimated. we need cooperation between eu member states and a clear strategy for safety and other appropriate measures and to prevent these misguided ideologies inviting people to participate in the violent jihad. we should also work together with turkey, through which it is believed many people enter syria and iraq, and of course, for a more sustainable solution in the middle east, there must be talks which also include the islamic republic of iran and saudi arabia as they are using various proxies to defend or promote their respective dangerous interests in the region. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am afraid, dear colleague, that the world is not black and white and that there is no one-size-fits-all for europe, which should act as a global player – as a strong global player in my opinion – to meet the various challenges whether they are violations of human rights or whether they are other crises that we see in the middle east, particularly now, and i do think that the eu should show more of a leadership position through diplomatic efforts, through working with partners like turkey to curb the spread of violent extremism or the recruitment in our own societies of people who go through turkey into countries like iraq and syria. so there are many steps we can take before military intervention is needed but we all know, sadly, that the world sometimes requires not only soft power, but also hard power.
it is remarkable that the present resolution does not mention the role of turkey, the applicant country, in the turbulent developments in iraq. in this context, i would like to hear the council's reaction to the serious accusation that turkey is co-financing the recently proclaimed caliphate of isis by reducing its oil production. i think even more serious was the capture by isis of iraq's largest chemical weapons storage facility in al-muthanna on 12 june. syrian kurdish medics today accused isis of using chemical weapons against the kurds. is the council aware of this disturbing reporting and, if so, how does it assess this news? in any case, recent reports of remaining chemical arsenals in al-muthanna (e.g. missiles containing plus or minus 15,000 litres of sarin) notably in isis hands are very disturbing. are brussels and baghdad talking about that? finally, i am grateful that the resolution before us calls for concrete attention to be given to the dramatically diminished christian minority in iraq. i urge the eu to make a full commitment to a permanent presence of christians in the two rivers region. i would therefore like to know what european initiatives have already been taken or are being taken. actions, not words!
i am ashamed to say that it took another attack in our own backyard to wake us up to what is happening in iraq. an attack on the jewish museum in brussels. i therefore also do not share the analysis of the high representative, who said that the international community was very surprised by the developments in iraq. come on, we've seen it happen in the last few years: the christian minorities were 5% of the population ten years ago, now 1%! structurally, the country is plagued. radical groups carried out attacks. it can't come as a surprise what's happening now. but apparently, the attack in brussels was necessary to shake us awake. i agree with you, the first response must be one of humanitarian support. i too welcome - and we do so in the resolution - the additional 5 million which brings the total of aid this year to 12 million. secondly, we as europe must very quickly identify the security consequences of the radicalisation in syria, in iraq, the actions of isis, and limit the risks. the responsible ministers made a start last week, but that start is far too free. for example, europol should have a register that would structureally map all returning jihadists in europe. the register should not be voluntary, but compulsory. so there are many further steps to be taken. thirdly, we must support the forces of reason in that country. we have to look at the situation in the member states and the situation in the community. take the christians, about the only ones who don't want to divide the country. they have doctors, they have schools, they have hospitals. they're places where people from different backgrounds come together. if the country is to have a chance, we must encourage further such meetings and also provide financial support. in northern ireland, europe has done that for years, supporting this kind of meeting of the different communities. please, do the same in iraq, if that country has a chance!
the developments in iraq are very worrying and call for an international approach. the continuing violence has now displaced 1.2 million people. a humanitarian crisis, which the eu cannot and must not ignore. the images we are seeing of mass executions by the jihadist movement islamic state are appalling and the situation that has arisen is very dangerous for the whole region. it is therefore important that the iraqi government, together with the various groups of the population, should work on the national reconciliation agenda. a first positive step has been taken by electing a sunni as the new president of the parliament. finally, the crisis also has direct implications for the situation in european countries. the islamic state's appeal, including to young european jihadists, seems to be growing. better european cooperation to combat radicalisation and to jointly monitor returning jihadists closely is therefore crucial.
for the ecr group last saturday i read in the neue zürcher zeitung a dignified comment on the latest escalation of violence between hamas and israel. i quote: "hamas acts autonomously despite the so-called palestinian unity government. to achieve its political goals, it does not hesitate to target the people of gaza". in short, hamas is terrorizing the palestinian citizens of the gaza strip with its continuous barrage of rockets against the state of israel and its citizens. it is not for nothing that hamas is on the european list of terrorist organisations. meanwhile, insiders estimate that hamas still has some 6,000 to 7,000 rockets. enough to continue the fight against israel for weeks. that brings me to the crucial question of who is actually the supplier of the advanced rocket arsenal of hamas and palestinian islamic jihad. the answer is simple: the islamic republic of iran. council, you were recently, high representative, at the negotiating table with tehran. note, without iran's funding, arming and training, the current terrorist threat of hamas, islamic jihad and hezbollah in the middle east would not be possible. what horrors await the region if you do not, on behalf of the international community, call for a clear end to iranian support for terrorist organizations in the region! a country which supports such organizations financially and materially cannot credibly claim to have a purely civilian nuclear programme. the middle east is already on fire! with israel in immediate danger. i therefore call on the council not to give an inch in the talks on iran's nuclear programme. does the eu want to help put out fires in the middle east with the arsonists, iran and hamas, in particular?
last week the inhabitants of israel were again forced to live in fear under the terrorist rocket attacks of hamas. this islamic organization has one purpose according to its charter: the destruction of all jews in israel. we must put an end to this violence immediately. israel has accepted the egyptian proposal for a ceasefire. hamas has rejected this to sow more death and destruction. it is clear that we are dealing with unscrupulous murderers, with terrorists who are incapable of listening to reason. that is why two measures are needed to put an end to this escalation and to this terror: the first. although israel is acting with restraint, it deserves the support of this parliament to eliminate every terrorist in the gaza strip. this right derives from the country's duty to protect its own citizens and the palestinian citizens who are now being used as human shields by these unscrupulous murderers. the second. hamas gives large salaries to terrorists if they succeed in killing innocent israelis. it is very likely that much of this money comes from the european union. this eu support has not built a peaceful, prosperous society, but is creating a terror state under the watchful eye of the palestinian authority. its leader, mahmoud abbas, takes no responsibility and takes no action. whether this is due to reluctance or to power is completely irrelevant. this eu funding must stop, and it must stop immediately! today the bombs fall on israel, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow they fall on strasbourg, london, amsterdam or brussels. the attacks on the jewish museum in brussels and on the synagogue in paris are warning signs of this. israel has been suffering under islamic terror for far too long. we have a historical, moral and cultural duty to support the jewish people and i ask the commission to move as quickly as possible towards a solution whereby the palestinians return to the land that was also called palestine, but which we now know as jordan. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
blue-card answer. – the palestinians should just return to the country that gave them this sovereignty and that is the country that we know as jordan. as for the violence, we see that we have to deal with a terrorist organisation that is racist, that is anti-semitic and that actually exists for just one purpose and that is to destroy all jews in the middle east. so that is my answer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, you are absolutely right. there are children’s lives at stake at this moment. these ruthless murderers are using even children as a defence against the people they are attacking, so they are not only attacking israel and the jewish population but are also putting their own people at risk and are prepared to have their own children killed. this is a war crime.
acting president of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, in thanking the members who have spoken for their contribution to the debate on this important subject, let me reiterate that the european union has a strong tradition of strong support for the international criminal court. we believe that the international community finds an efficient court an indispensable instrument for combating impunity and promoting an international order based on the rule of law, peace and reconciliation. for this reason, the international criminal court will remain an important priority for the european union in the years to come. the eu will therefore continue to support the icc politically and diplomatically, as well as logistically and financially. as a concrete example of support, i will mention the european union's commitment to the universality of the rome statute and to promoting a better understanding of the mandate of the international criminal court. the eu continues to do its utmost to advance this process in third countries, in particular through regular human rights dialogues with over 40 countries, systematic campaigns of diplomatic initiatives around the world, the organisation of local or regional seminars on the subject, the systematic inclusion of a clause on the international criminal court in agreements with third countries as previously called for or financial support to civil society organisations active in promoting the universality of the statute. the european external action service will continue to facilitate the exchange of information and coordination between member states as the ratification process progresses, which, as has been said, concerns the individual member states. there are some - i have mentioned a few - who are still engaged in the ratification process and whom we will ask to speed up - starting naturally with italy - the ratification processes under way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. it is absolutely unacceptable that the regime in sudan is holding her on false grounds. she should be able to travel freely. and that's why i'm making three calls today: the first. to the government of sudan to treat her humanely and let her go; the second. to catherine ashton to do her utmost to secure the release of meriam ibrahim; the third. to pope francis to personally and directly commit to meriam's freedom, to invite her to come to the vatican and have her picked up in khartoum. in the coming days i will be putting these calls into a number of letters and i invite colleagues to support these letters and to co-sign them in order to get meriam released from khartoum.
the resolution also calls for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience, including those who have been sentenced to death. meriam is now in the american embassy, the whole world knows her case. that's good, she deserves our attention and protection. but there are many more women and men in prisons in sudan, women and men who, like meriam, should not be there. women, because they have behaved indecently in the eyes of the regime, because they wear trousers. women and men, for daring to write a newspaper or a pamphlet critical of al-bashir and his entourage. they are people who need our protection, protection which we can give them with a resolution naming their names. they have a right to expect that we do not reduce their conflict to one between muslims and christians. they are people from darfur, from the nuba mountains, from the blue nile, from kordofan, people who are threatened because of their skin color, their religion, whatever. but also because the regime is no good to anyone. in april, al-bashir promised to release all political prisoners. it hasn't happened, the security services keep arbitrarily arresting people. we have actually missed the opportunity with this resolution to really make a point of the regime in sudan, which arrests, abuses and imprisons people, activists and civilians for long periods without trial. that's what we should have done!
- a writer. - it is now one year since the military coup in egypt and i remember the debates in this parliament. no one dared to say it was a military coup. that people were actually a little happy that the military was going to restore order and that morsi and his muslim brothers were gone. god, we were so wrong! you were so wrong! i said: "this is going from bad to worse!" we see activists, we see ordinary citizens, we see journalists disappearing into prison on a massive scale; they're being held in show trials for decades. we see shooting at people who are demonstrating. and this parliament, as well as our high representative catherine ashton, is not prepared to speak plainly. what have we done? we simply sent a european observation mission to the presidential elections in egypt and we legitimized that case. so i would like to say this: we are not going to vote in the next parliamentary elections, ladies and gentlemen, because we do not have to legitimize this! my question to catherine ashton, to the european commission is: can we now finally stop all the so-called preparatory work for cooperation with egypt? the time is not ripe for it! my request to president al-sisi is: give those egyptian and european journalists, including my dutch compatriot rena netjes, freedom and give those activists space to do what they want to do: say what they think!
for the ecr group the suffering of christians in northern nigeria is profound. after all, boko haram has continued to kill and plunder for the past two months. attacks on villages, bombings of crowded places and christian targets. then there are the so-called "silent killings": individual christians, often pastors or church leaders, are systematically murdered in cold blood. reliable local sources point time and again to growing numbers of individual christians being killed and whose coverage does not penetrate the world news. the european union has now designated boko haram as a terrorist organisation. i therefore urge the council and the commission to call on the nigerian government to bear a strong and persistent reminder of its basic responsibility towards its own christian community, which is daily faced with acute danger to its life. because there is no adequate protection, no adequate government assistance for the victims of the rampant violence of boko haram. i expect the european union, as a community of law, to treat the christians of nigeria with an open ear and an open eye! [ the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
"blue card" is the answer. thank you, mr czarnecki, you are quite right that we should be very concerned about the attitude of the nigerian authorities, because there are reliable sources who report that the forces of law and order, the army in particular, have been so infiltrated and perverted by the followers of boko haram that nigerian christians have no confidence at this moment in the methods of the nigerian authorities for maintaining order. i therefore think that the council and the commission must indeed enter into an urgent dialogue with the nigerian authorities or else sanctions will have to be imposed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, hungary is certainly not the only country where violations of the rule of law and fundamental rights take place, but we had debates earlier and are very concerned about recent statements by the prime minister and the raids on offices of ngos. i know it has been proposed to debate this issue in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, but i think it is much wider than that, and also concerns other committees. we feel it would be appropriate to have a debate here in plenary to show the citizens that we stand for the protection of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
the ban on imports is having a hard impact on our agricultural sector and also on the european fisheries sector. and what sector is next? the sum of 125 million euros is not enough. i ask the commission to make available at least one billion euros, and i would stress that this should not be at the expense of the agricultural budget. this is a political crisis. under chapter 4 of the budget there is money for international political developments. and there are still many unused resources available. i have tabled an amendment to this effect in the committee on budgets, which i will gladly forward to you, commissioner. i hope you will support me, colleagues! in conclusion, two short questions: is the commission able to rule out the misuse of funds and is the commission prepared to allow crisis cartels to restrict supply on the market? i'd like an update on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner very much for what he said, but a lot has happened in the netherlands. the plane crash on thursday, july 17th, with mh17 brought the war in ukraine closer for the netherlands. the netherlands is deeply affected by this terrible event. shortly after that we were hit by the russian trade boycott, which put many of our farmers, gardeners and fishermen in trouble. last week the russian government announced new sanctions against the western countries, which will hit europe hard again. as the russian sanctions are a direct response to the economic punitive measures of the west, it is very important to build support among the european people. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the situation in the region is not further destabilized. i therefore ask the commissioner to expressly ask that the resolution for more money tabled tomorrow be clearly supported. i am not advocating this for nothing, because in the netherlands alone we need more than a billion euros. finally, illegal use must be excluded. as regards the crisis cartel - because our state secretary in the netherlands is quite critical of you - this could clearly lead to quick solutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, trade is an essential part of our common foreign policy and it should be a more integral part. its political significance was underlined by the responses to the eu-ukraine association agreement. last summer a wake-up call was given, for those who still needed one, as to the importance of a strong europe in today’s world. we have a lot to win by expanding the scope of existing agreements in the euromed region. a few years after courageous people – many of them young – defied repression in calling for democracy, rights and opportunities, not enough positive change has been realised. sadly, the countries in north africa and the middle east face major threats of instability. still, we must continue with an ambitious trade agenda. it should be at the heart of finally giving meaning to the notion of more for more: more market access, with more reforms towards human rights and democracy. we must be firm, including with israel, on existing conditionalities, and we must see trade as a means towards more opportunities and rights, towards the prevention of corruption, the more equal distribution of wealth and the empowerment of individuals – the latter especially in combination with education, which should be used to tackle the massive youth unemployment. increasing opportunities may also help to prevent radicalisation, although clearly it is not the only solution. certainly it can help curb migration. this is not just a matter of exports and innovations. we should look at ourselves, and at the negative impact that agricultural subsidies have on the opportunities for farmers in the euromed region, hampering growth there. the eu should also play an active coordinating role, so as to avoid duplication of activities on the ground, and it should support regional integration, which would greatly help economic growth in the euromed region.
the russian leader, mr. putin, likes to show off all kinds of animals, like horses, tigers and leopards. that way, everyone believes that putin is a very strong man who can handle anything. i call on mr putin to show that he can really do something, and by that i mean this: to date, investigators have been unable to locate the crash site of flight mh17. to date, no investigation has been possible and access to the site of the disaster has been blocked by separatists. the latter have even begun to remove aircraft metal! putin needs to show that he can really do something. tell him to stop those separatists over there and get them out of here! then there can be an investigation and justice can be done. then the killers of all the people on mh17 can be caught and brought to justice. that is what is needed now, mr president!
today we are ratifying an association agreement between the eu and ukraine. at the same time, our ukrainian colleagues are confirming the same agreement in kiev. a year ago, no one could have imagined what this agreement would unleash and how it has become the symbol of freedom and self-determination. cynics will say that the symbolism of this joint signature is a provocation to russia and that we are intervening in the russian sphere of influence. i don't agree with that at all. for me, the signing of this agreement is an expression of a sovereign people who can choose their own future. that is why we are voting against the report. and the choice of the ukrainian people is for a free, democratic and prosperous ukraine. commissioner, can you clarify whether the delay in the implementation of the association agreement was a sovereign decision of ukraine or whether the eu vetoed a bilateral agreement with moscow? what are the implications for georgia and moldova?
if one thing has become clear in this debate, it is that the summer of 2014, the annexation of crimea, russian troops in ukraine and the downing of mh17, in which 298 people lost their lives, including almost 200 of my countrymen, are forcing the european union to grow up very quickly. because 70 years of peace and prosperity is, of course, a success, but on the other hand, that success threatens to lull us to sleep. and the big concessionary families who sit on the far left and the populist right in this house are sleeping on. in this way they are the greatest threat not only to our friendly neighbours but also to the european union as a whole. and by the way, that may be their underlying agenda, i'm sure it is, but i'm here to say it loud and clear: not with us! we are not going to invade ukraine in the same way as russia, but in ukraine people are fighting and dying in order to live in peace and in accordance with european values. we support those people. and so we raise our hand and ratify this association agreement. so, european commission, and i conclude with this, we shall see whether the delay in the implementation of this agreement will indeed bring about the change you promised, commissioner, and is not part of a concession policy which will destroy everything we stand for.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the association agreement with ukraine. we want to support and help the ukrainian people in their struggle for genuine democracy, against war and violence, and for the preservation of sovereignty. we support the sanctions against russia because the leaders of that country are indeed behaving in a disingenuous manner. the peace talks must continue and deserve our support. but we must be brave enough to face the facts. we are being dragged into a geopolitical game heavily mediated by the simultaneous and perhaps hasty vote in the ep and the ukrainian parliament. although this agreement is being voted on today, it is already stated that it will not enter into force until 1 january 2016. why the rush to approve them now? is there not a danger that we are now facing a situation where a 'frozen conflict' is once again brewing on the eu's borders? we are also particularly uncomfortable with the content of the 1200 pages on which the vote is to be taken. how will these agreements affect our social models? what's the real agenda behind this agreement? is this putting ukraine on the right track or is it being used for a larger geopolitical conflict? it would be irresponsible to vote against now, given the desire of ukraine and our desire to support ukraine. but for the next few months, we will hold our hearts tight as this conflict unfolds and whether we can take this on the path of peace.
in writing. - i voted against this eu-ukraine association agreement because i think that this process has been rushed through, without vision and without clear consultation with the citizens in ukraine. the european union's attitude towards ukraine has major geopolitical consequences and this is, in my opinion, the main reason for the escalation of the conflict in ukraine. this requires a careful approach and this association agreement is likely to have a negative effect. international security, human rights and democracy are always more important than short-sighted trade policy.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the association agreement with ukraine. we want to support and help the ukrainian people in their struggle for genuine democracy, against war and violence or for the preservation of sovereignty. we support the sanctions against russia because the leaders of that country are indeed behaving in a disingenuous manner. the peace talks must continue and deserve our support. but we must be brave enough to face the facts. we are being dragged into a geopolitical game heavily mediated by the simultaneous and perhaps hasty vote in the ep and the ukrainian parliament. although this agreement is being voted on today, it is already stated that it will not enter into force until 1 january 2016. why the rush to approve them now? and are we not now in danger of being caught in the situation of a new 'frozen conflict' on the eu's borders? we are also particularly uncomfortable with the content of the 1200 pages on which the vote is to be taken. how will these agreements affect our social models? what's the real agenda behind this agreement? is this agreement putting ukraine on the right track or is it being used for a larger geopolitical conflict? it would be irresponsible to vote against now, given the desire of ukraine and our desire to support ukraine. but for the next few months, we will hold our hearts tight as this conflict unfolds and whether we can take this on the path of peace.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the association agreement with the united states of america.
in writing. – although i in principle support the non-discrimination principle in the context of employment, i have voted against this report in order to voice my rejection of the undemocratic way this file was brought forward – without any substantial or public debate in committee or plenary. an agreement which was at the very root of the escalation of the current eu-ukraine-russia conflict should not be rushed through parliament without any proper political scrutiny.
i 'll be honest with you . i have to say that i was very surprised to hear the council and the commission say that they had not done so. were they talking about the same thing? i have rarely heard such contradictory statements from the council and the commission in this house. the council: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the work of the council, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. that seems irresponsible to me. we have indeed had an increase in that research budget after years of very difficult negotiations on the multiannual budget. that multiannual budget was not the innovative multiannual budget i had hoped to see. the research budget could have been much higher, but it was a step in the right direction. and now the council is threatening to go back on its head with truly irresponsible cuts. because, let us be honest, we all talk about growth and jobs, but we will only achieve growth and jobs in europe if we invest enough in innovation. only then will we have real solid sustainable growth. that is not possible if the council wants to make cuts in this way every time. to refer to my british colleagues: this is really penny-wise and pound-foolish! does the council realise, as the commissioner said, that we are putting thousands of institutions and businesses in difficulty? madam president, i look forward to the council's reaction, particularly to the commissioner's comments.
i would like to thank in particular mrs geoghegan-quinn, the outgoing commissioner, for her clarity today. she can say it a little easier now, but she was very clear. on the one hand, there are commitments, on the other hand, there are payments, and in between there is a gap that is growing, a gap that will reach 40% by the end of the new period. if the commissioner says that now, it means that the answer given by the council of 'we are getting it right' and 'we are getting closer' is wrong. at the last plenary session we discussed cohesion money. the gap between payments and commitments there is more than 20 billion euros. this is fundamental. and it also affects our own payment ethics. we have adopted the directive on late payment for our own public bodies, for the companies: pay within 30 days! what do we do with the council? we sit with dry eyes, people put things off for a year and sometimes more than a year. this is not correct. this is about our own morality, our own way of dealing with others, our role model. i think that's very fundamental. a few final questions: we have to be very careful not to let the commissioner's words be misinterpreted. who's gonna step in when a company or a researcher goes bankrupt? if he can't do it, where are the member states? and thirdly: i expect a lot from the new commission: growth, jobs, investment. but i want to see this resolved first.
commissioner, thank you for your presentation, with a wonderful overview of your activities. still, some criticism is needed. where is the europe that is setting the trend? where is europe with its mobile phone standard, where is europe inspiring that? i can tell you that in 2004, when i was also in this parliament, i attended a conference at the united nations on internet governance. our european companies were still ahead. what happened in the meantime? you see that the big american companies are in charge of the whole cloud thing. so there must be a new spirit that is different and also sets the trend, so to speak. that is a downward trend, in my view. a trend of our education, of our businesses, of young people starting businesses in the app economy. a trend that actually determines our lives to a large extent. that's it, that's it. it's not always alibaba that's going to be driving the trend, it's our people close to home. that is why i am pleased with the initiative now on the table. putting two commissioners on that digital, partly internal market is a very wise idea, because we have to go further. with 28 separate systems, we can't do this. i'm really looking at it - it was mrs. kroes who said, we have to make sure that we have a broad spectrum in europe. what's going on? what's going on? it is precisely for the sake of these funds that it is cut up again into those little stamps, those puzzle pieces, which are europe. we can't get there that way. i ask for leadership from the new commission, and that indeed brings with it the contribution to growth that this single market can bring. that is the task and this is a good time to have this debate, including the prepared resolution which we must certainly table next time with the support of the other groups.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would also like to start by thanking commissioner hedegaard for her dedication and incredible fighting spirit the last couple of years. it normally takes quite some pressure to get difficult political decisions and we must wonder how much additional pressure is still needed to finally take necessary measures in the field of climate. scientific evidence is one, of course, and last week we saw the world meteorological report, which stated that co2 concentrations are at the moment the highest ever. so, all the steps taken so far have been very small steps compared to what is still needed. unfortunately climate change is still strengthening its grip on our planet. an alarming element of last week’s report is that oceans and forests are losing their capacity to absorb co2 and that is really alarming. so, there is sufficient pressure to take bold measures, i would say, in these kind of reports. ‘but what about our economy?’ people say. yes, well, let us look at it from an economic angle. future costs due to climate change are astronomical and today’s new climate economy report shows that the road to a low carbon economy does not have to hurt the economy. every economist should be in favour of ambitious climate policy. how much and what kind of pressure is further needed to have a positive outcome at the european council meeting in october? i would say three ambitious and binding targets is what we need. the parliament has endorsed that and the idea is gaining ground in the juncker commission. now it is time for the council to follow this example. so, member states, please take our citizens’ future seriously and overcome your short-term disagreements by deciding in favour of three ambitious and binding targets in october.
i would also like to thank mrs hedegaard for her five years of work. i've known you for about five years, after the copenhagen fiasco, which you also led. but you have shown an incredible commitment over the last five years, and that is also very much appreciated by our group. the result is only too limited, which of course remains our major problem. and i think that's going to be the problem, next week in new york, that the rest of the world is getting a little tired of the european union's empty words. we're leading, we're doing so well, we're on our way to the 2020 goals. but where exactly are we headed? the 2020 targets are not ambitious at all, and we have already achieved them. we are therefore promising eight years of eu stagnation for the rest of the world. what exactly are we going to promise after 2020? we are talking about minus 40%, but if you look at the negotiations already, we are going to take some rights from emissions trading after 2020 and from non-ets sectors, all to make that minus 40% mainly a paper reality, but in reality this will not achieve anything. and then there's the financials. we have been calling for years for funds for developing countries, but we still do not deliver! we are being called on to use such empty phrases, and it is important that europe does more next week in new york. you have the heads of government - and i am looking at the italian presidency - there for once, but it is time we also got the finance ministers there for once and got a real commitment from the heads of government to have a very ambitious and credible 2030 package without cow trading on the table in october.
the eu spends tens of billions of dollars every year to combat alleged climate change. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not misled by the commission's proposals. this money can be better spent by the independent member states themselves on really important things, such as research into als, cancer, health care, education or care for our elderly. those are goals that have real results. after years of intensive research on climate change, it is still unclear whether our planet is warming or cooling. the ipcc, through its juggling of figures and demonstrable scientific errors, has given credence to the claim that we actually have no idea how the climate will develop. for example, unexpectedly, we now find that in two years, 1.8 million square kilometers of arctic ice has grown. but even if the earth were warming, the question is whether man has any influence on it. of the hundred scientists, fifty say that man has a lot to do with it, and the other fifty deny it most definitely. there's so much uncertainty in this climate debate, that i've been looking for one fact that stands out like a pole above water, and that's what i've found. the only thing that is undeniable is that every day thousands of people make a lot of money off this hype. and so these people have a vested interest in perpetuating this hype, this very uncomfortable big lie.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after five years of intense negotiations, reaching accord on the eu-canada agreement is no small achievement. congratulations on the results for europe, but also for canada. i hope this can be a true win-win. in all the complexities and controversies, we should not forget why we engage in trade negotiations at all. our goals are clear: we seek economic growth and the creation of jobs for europeans, especially as russia has reacted to the much-needed eu sanctions for its aggression in our eastern neighbourhood. the best way we can alleviate the impact of the damage to european businesses and farmers is by facilitating exports and market access elsewhere in the world. market access through procurement is an important accomplishment in the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and, by and large, the standards in relation to the planet, privacy and food safety have not been traded away. that is important. more controversial, however, is the investor-state dispute settlement (isds) mechanism. eu member states have no less than 1400 bilateral agreements that include isds, and while the mechanism was sought after by europeans investing in countries where the rule of law does not exist, it is now leading to controversy. in the ceta, i see that some improvements have been realised, such as the inclusion of provisions to increase the impartiality of arbitration judges and to provide more transparency and better protection against frivolous cases, but still the key question of whether or not we need isds between two mature democracies with the rule of law should be answered. this question is relevant not only for the ceta: many of us look at the text of this agreement with the anticipation of finding clues for the much more impactful currently in negotiation. i look forward to learning more about the results of the public consultation, to which an unprecedented number of citizens and stakeholders replied. even though the text of the ceta cannot now be changed, commissioner, i urge the commission to ensure that europeans can engage actively and transparently with you to obtain clarification before having to give their votes.
the ceta agreement is still not concluded. that is good news and it must remain so. there are far too many open questions for the national parliaments to discuss. this agreement gives power to the big companies in europe and canada. they have had ample opportunity to say exactly what they want and the 150,000 reactions of the european people to the isds mechanism are being ignored. these are the people who together elected this parliament and who are also your boss, mr de gucht. it is clear that the people do not want these agreements, and rightly so. there are more and more examples of companies appealing against democratic decision-making. can you guarantee, mr de gucht, that canadian companies like lone pine resources will not force european countries to extract shale gas, as they do in canada? can you guarantee that european countries can decide to freeze nuclear energy without being sued? can you guarantee that our european workers will retain the right to strike and that our collective agreements will remain in force? sixteen european parliaments, including the dutch one, sent you a letter in june saying that both ceta and ttip should remain mixed agreements, so that national parliaments have the final say. these parliaments represent two thirds of the european population. can you guarantee that ceta and ttip are mixed agreements?
i would like to join all the previous speakers in saying that the 20% youth unemployment we have in europe today is unacceptable. we must give the fight against youth unemployment absolute priority over the next five years. the fight against youth unemployment must, however, be carried out first and foremost within the member states themselves. the situation in the various member states is different. that also requires different measures. i am surprised that when the resolution was adopted last july, several groups in this house immediately took the initiative of imposing a legal framework from europe with minimum standards for the youth guarantee. we must set our goals in europe, we must support member states in their measures, but let us also give the member states the opportunity to tailor their own measures to their own situation. if we are to take a serious approach to creating more jobs for young people in the long term, we must implement structural reforms. i believe that one of the structural reforms of the economy and the labour market is the tax burden on labour. in europe we have a tax burden which is significantly higher than the oecd average. if we are serious about creating jobs, we must implement structural, sustainable reforms and we must not continue to put them off.
thousands of people have died in the affected african countries since the ebola outbreak, and research indicates that 70 million people are at risk of infection and one million may have been infected. the outbreak of the virus has dealt a huge blow to these countries, affecting both society and the economy. we in europe must ask ourselves what we could have done better to deal with this virus and what is our response to that? how well do we coordinate that approach and how well do we work together? last week, dutch minister edith schippers authorized the purchase of an ebola vaccine, a step in the right direction. but we're not there yet. what is europe going to do to speed up the development of a vaccine that can be brought to market? are there not enough applications for projects that have a much lower priority? i would ask the commission to look again at its research priorities. because developments in africa show that an ebola vaccine should be our first strong priority in this crisis.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr howitt, i very much appreciate your input and the words you have spoken. i share that, too. what escapes me in your contribution is the way isis should be fought. we agree that we are dealing with a brutal group of killers. how would you like to deal with isis? i didn't hear you talk about that.
it is good to state clearly here that isis is as much a threat to europe as religious and ethnic minorities in syria and iraq. because it is inconceivable that the thousands of young jihadists from western countries who are spreading death and destruction alongside isis in syria and iraq today, would suddenly stop their terrorist activities upon returning to their countries of origin. in addition, the territory of the islamic state can serve as both a base and a refuge for these salafi jihadists. such circulation is life-threatening! council, what joint strategy have the eu member states concerned developed against isis and its european networks? two final points on the numerous displaced and persecuted iraqi christians. first of all: they are historically part of the two rivers. secondly: they are therefore rightly asking for our immediate protection. - right now! i spoke to them a few hours ago. it's almost too late! this is our responsibility!
the barbarism of the islamic state knows no bounds. the mass executions, forced marriages and public beheadings of journalists are disgusting to any thinking person. this terrorist organization is in direct opposition to the values we hold dear, the core values of europe, freedom and democracy. it is absolutely imperative that isis be stopped. the people of iraq and syria are suffering enormously under the reign of terror, and the continued advance of this group is also a danger to the security of europe. in addition to the military strategy, the financial flows to this terrorist group must also be cut off. isis' main source of income is from the oil fields it has occupied in syria and iraq. to my shock, the eu ambassador to iraq was in this european parliament two weeks ago and she told us that there are european member states that are buying this oil from iraq! so i would like to ask the council and the commission to clarify this: which european member states are funding isis in this way and will this be stopped immediately?
today i, along with a number of other colleagues, am wearing a t-shirt in solidarity with the christians of the middle east. it has the n in the arabic alphabet, the n of nazarami, the followers of jesus of nazareth. this is the symbol that isis killers mark christian homes with when those homes and villages are captured. and then the christians are given the choice of paying a huge tax or converting to islam or they're killed. this is a sign of solidarity with those christians. christians are fleeing, but we must continue to support them. this has got to stop! hence this t-shirt as a gesture of solidarity.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after the people of libya bravely defeated the dictator gadaffi who brutally ruled over them for decades, the recent clashes are no reason for optimism. various militias are actually cause for grave concern, especially as islamists have taken tripoli and its airports. the cases of arbitrary detention, abductions, unlawful killings, torture, violence against journalists and officials and human rights defenders are very troubling, and meanwhile there is hardly any government structure to adequately run the country in crisis. we recognise the house of representatives, but hope that all parties will engage in an inclusive and constructive dialogue to rebuild stability and in fact to rebuild the country. one important step they should take is to ensure that oil which is still flowing is not sold by illegitimate terrorist groups, and in this sense i emphasise eu-based and international companies’ own responsibility to refrain from purchasing such oil. with such threats at our doorsteps, we need the eu to show more leadership. globally, we now see a chain of islamist jihadist militias stretching from nigeria through the middle east to pakistan. so we need more eu leadership to fight jihadist militias, to prevent regional spill-overs and to ensure that the people who flee this violence do not suffer a horrible death by drowning in the mediterranean. we must seek accountability for the perpetrators of violence and end the impunity with which the most horrific crimes are now met. additionally, we should put pressure on those who are externally funding islamist groups and urge them to stop these toxic activities. sadly, some of these sponsors are our eu allies. it is time we got to grips with the fact that the instability in libya directly impacts us. the refugee flows are enormous, and suggestions such the one as by the dutch prime minister that this is merely an italian problem are inappropriate and no solution. we need european leadership and solutions right now.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the gaza strip. i saw firsthand hamas terror tunnels being discovered and dismantled in time. the local population in the western part of the negev desert has been exposed to palestinian rocket rains day and night for years. and now this debate on the role of the eu after the latest round of fighting between israel and, let's face it, its islamist mortal enemies in gaza. what role should the eu play in this inevitable conflict? well, given that hamas rules gaza and is on the eu's official list of terrorist organisations, it is obvious that the eu is supporting the jewish state in words and deeds in its relentless defensive struggle against hamas. in concrete terms, this means that the eu is making a real effort to achieve a real demilitarisation of the gaza strip. does the council share this european role as essential? what steps does he intend to take in this vital direction towards a decidedly urgent pacification of the israeli-palestinian conflict? it is very important in any case that any european aid to the economic reconstruction of gaza does not contribute to the military reconstruction of hamas. in conclusion: the eu's influential role in the israeli-palestinian conflict also requires good relations with israel, including the annual meetings of the association council. i very much regret that the high representative is not here, because she did not hold the last two association councils. that is extremely bad for eu-israel relations, and i very much regret that as chairman of the delegation for relations with israel. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. that is a question you should be asking hamas, which is using human shields in its struggle to maintain its own power, a method we are also seeing these days with isis. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure. ]
"blue card" is the answer. i would like to point out to mr martin again that hamas has a method of fighting in which the civilian population is used to justify terror. the organization makes tremendous use of social media and i can assure you that there is careful consideration on the israeli side before launching attacks against hamas' aggression. you have to look at this from two sides. [ the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. i myself attended the palestinian parliamentary elections in 2006. if the majority of the palestinian population votes for hamas's rejection of the two-state solution, then you are calling down the evil upon yourself through democracy. i find that extremely sad.
"blue card" question. what is it? i have a simple question for mr castaldo: what do you think of the fact that hamas has publicly executed more than 20 collaborators - as they see it - ? what kind of move is this? isn't this a terrorist act and you're not talking about it? does that bother you, does it not? israel is facing such an opponent, and so are the palestinian people!
despite the ceasefire, hamas also fired another missile at israel yesterday. hamas, isis, al-shabaab, boko haram, they are the teeth and claws of a monster called islam. these teeth and claws need to be pulled out. hamas must be totally destroyed. the palestinian authority has failed to curb the violence of hamas. it has done nothing to get its citizens to recognize israel and live peacefully with it. the eu's financial support has not been used to build infrastructure, but for attack tunnels and benefits to killers. the eu must no longer be complicit in the murders and human rights violations of hamas. the eu should not give any financial support to the palestinian authority, but should exert maximum pressure to make hamas completely harmless and to make its inhabitants recognize israel.
today i received an answer to my question on gaza, which i put on 27 july last. you will do nothing to stop the ongoing destruction of gaza, except by making known your commitment to human rights. boy, that's going to help. what are you going to do? wearing t-shirts that say "i love human rights"? the latest war has caused damage of 6 billion euros, according to reuters, two and a half times the gross domestic product of gaza. the country is in ruins, one in ten of its inhabitants killed, wounded or fled. everyone is waiting for the next war. that is unacceptable and it requires much more than just flattering words. israel must apply international law, in particular the fourth geneva convention, which deals with human rights in occupied territories. the application of international law is a duty, not a political choice. we need to increase the pressure. suspending the association agreement is the strongest weapon.
madam president, the number of people whose human rights are violated in one way or another is overwhelming. many of them look to us for help and support and we must offer what we can. but underlying the many different forms of violation – from rape and torture to censorship and discrimination – is a wave that is swelling, an increasingly successful challenge to the very principles that define us and that we are defending globally. the universality of human rights itself has perhaps never been as threatened as it is today. the eu is in a great position to lead an unequivocal defence of the universality of human rights but we can only lead by example. it puts us to shame and weakens our credibility when, in europe, viktor orban openly pushes illiberal democracy, when minorities face discrimination, when women do not have equal pay, treatment and opportunities, when technology is used for illegitimate surveillance and hacking in europe or exported to dictators and terrorist organisations which are not curbed, or when the crisis is used as an excuse not to implement corporate social responsibility or trade conditionalities. we can see that the line between internal and external policies is not a sharp one and we are interconnected but if, together, we do not show leadership and strategically leverage our political and economic position, who will defend the universality of human rights?
freedom of religion is a great asset, especially in cuba. i therefore convey to the council and the commission the following wishes, which should be a condition for the resumption of relations, on behalf of the evangelical churches there with which i am in contact. first, freedom to print their own christian magazines. second, the broadcasting of christian programs on television and radio. thirdly, the official recognition of evangelical churches and the ownership of churches and buildings. fourthly, and especially given the acute poverty, freedom for the church to carry out social activities as a recognized institution in childcare, care of the elderly and - not unimportant in cuba - food provision. finally, freedom for the cuban churches to receive direct spiritual and material aid from churches in europe, without interference from the cuban state. council and commission, former colleague lambrinidis, i have known you for a long time. i trust that if you are in contact with the cuban authorities, these are essential conditions. (the president interrupted the speaker. ]
according to human rights watch, over the past two years, forty political activists, bloggers, journalists and human rights activists have been wrongfully imprisoned in azerbaijan. these are the people we are asking for attention today. azerbaijan is part of the european neighbourhood policy and a strategic partner of the eu. this is why we must be particularly critical when the common values on which our partnership is based are so seriously violated. in recent months, there has been an unprecedented wave of arrests of people who dare to criticize the authorities. among them, also mentioned here, leyla yunus and her husband arif, rasul jafarov and intigam aliyev. because what have these people done wrong? they have applied the principles of the council of europe and denounced human rights violations. we call on the authorities in our resolution to release these political prisoners immediately and to put an end to the witch-hunt against people who stand up for universal principles such as freedom and democracy.
i am not saying that the european community should not be involved in the conflict, but that it should be involved in the peace process. i spoke to ngos in burundi. there are. there are a lot of good, smart, sensible people out there who take risks. as early as november 2013, they were afraid and saw that the youth militias were becoming more aggressive and that radios and newspapers were allowed to write less than they wanted. i spoke to them in a hotel behind closed doors, but they had all made sure that their car was not parked outside. these people are taking risks and they need protection, and we can give them that protection by talking about them. a very painful example of this is mr pierre claver mbonimpa, who is now imprisoned for his work, namely protecting the human rights of people in prisons! what better way to assess the state of a country than by looking at how you treat prisoners? it is distressing that this very man is now in prison himself and that is why i am worried about the elections in 2015. burundi has resources and can therefore also be a rich country. but it's not. it's the pathetic little brother between congo, rwanda and uganda. there is smuggling, but the proceeds do not stay in burundi. it is good that we are paying attention to this again. i am also convinced that we must monitor the elections there and ensure that human rights activists and politicians who are trying to fight a fair fight are helped.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it fully supports the association agreement and should therefore be considered to have voted in favour.
in writing. - our delegation has just abstained from voting on the report on fiji. we agree that the situation in fiji is a matter of concern. since the coup in 2006, the population has been subject to a lot of repressive measures. human rights are being systematically violated, and in particular the freedoms of expression, assembly and association are under severe pressure. for example, it makes it difficult for workers to organise in a trade union and extremely difficult to form a political party. in view of these circumstances, we think it would be a bad sign if the eu were to conclude an epa with fiji. on the other hand, it is important that the eu is consistent in its policy on international trade and the strengthening of human rights in the world. the eu must be a reliable partner that treats equal countries equally. in this case, fiji is being punished for human rights violations, whereas previous epas have been concluded with countries where the situation is far from ideal. we therefore call for the human rights situation to be examined not only in fiji but in all countries with which the eu is negotiating, as well as in those with which it has already concluded epas.
in writing. - our delegation has just abstained from voting on the report on fiji. we agree that the situation in fiji is a matter of concern. since the coup in 2006, the population has been subject to a lot of repressive measures. human rights are being systematically violated, and in particular the freedoms of expression, assembly and association are under severe pressure. for example, it makes it difficult for workers to organise in a trade union and extremely difficult to form a political party. in view of these circumstances, we think it would be a bad sign if the eu were to conclude an epa with fiji. on the other hand, it is important that the eu is consistent in its policy on international trade and the strengthening of human rights in the world. the eu must be a reliable partner that treats equal countries equally. in this case, fiji is being punished for human rights violations, whereas previous epas have been concluded with countries where the situation is far from ideal. we therefore call for the human rights situation to be examined not only in fiji but in all countries with which the eu is negotiating, as well as in those with which it has already concluded epas.
in writing. - our delegation has just abstained from voting on the report on fiji. we agree that the situation in fiji is a matter of concern. since the coup in 2006, the population has been subject to a lot of repressive measures. human rights are being systematically violated, and in particular the freedoms of expression, assembly and association are under severe pressure. for example, it makes it difficult for workers to organise in a trade union and extremely difficult to form a political party. in view of these circumstances, we think it would be a bad sign if the eu were to conclude an epa with fiji. on the other hand, it is important that the eu is consistent in its policy on international trade and the strengthening of human rights in the world. the eu must be a reliable partner that treats equal countries equally. in this case, fiji is being punished for human rights violations, whereas previous epas have been concluded with countries where the situation is far from ideal. we therefore call for the human rights situation to be examined not only in fiji but in all countries with which the eu is negotiating, as well as in those with which it has already concluded epas.
i am addressing you, mr president, not only on behalf of my group but also as co-chairman of the parliament's working party on freedom of religion and belief. as a working group, mr president, we have long been opposed to the blasphemy laws in pakistan, which allow people to be convicted if they are alleged to have insulted the prophet muhammad, and the maximum penalty for this is the death penalty. a few years ago, mrs asia bibi was sentenced to death on the basis of a case like this, and our president-in-office, mr renzi, explicitly raised this issue in his speech this summer. unfortunately, mr president, last thursday a lahore court upheld the death sentence against mrs asia bibi. it is therefore necessary, mr president, that we do everything possible to prevent the execution of that death sentence and to abolish the blasphemy laws. that is why we are asking for an additional hour on wednesday afternoon for an exchange of views with the high representative.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, thank you, commissioner, thank you for your brief introduction. in addition, just before the elections we have adjusted the solidarity fund, we have set up the regulation so that we can intervene more quickly in areas where things are going wrong. this is true of northern italy as well as the south of france. i expect them to be above that limit. the criteria are all set. that is a very clear signal to the citizens. but there's more to it than that. you also indicate it, and that is also the title of today's debate. in genoa, for example, it seems that the drainage from the rivers, the capacity, was simply not sufficient. you have to be very responsive to things that might happen. i'm dutch. we are for a considerable part below sea level and we know what is happening. i therefore feel that prevention has not been sufficiently emphasized in practice and that we must now provide funds, but that the political response is not sufficient. we can indeed intervene with the regional development fund - which is to equip those ecosystems better - but local priorities must be set. and if the water cannot be disposed of, as was the case in genoa, then the citizens and the companies will always be the victims. in the netherlands we have a delta plan, in other areas in europe the same thing must be done and if political pressure is to be put on the member states, on the ministers and the regions, then so be it. a wonderful subject to discuss with the new commission.
i think we can all agree, mr president, that the ebola outbreak needs a strong european response. but does not the ebola crisis painfully demonstrate that the current european institutions are too weak in this overwhelmingly growing cause? with the ebola outbreak in west africa threatening to spiral out of control, there is a great need for a centrally controlled, highly disciplined organization. but the european crisis response system is far too weak for that, because of a lack of money and, above all, of competences. unfortunately, the foreign affairs council has not made any improvement on that today. president. - the consequences of the ebola outbreak are heartbreaking and terrible, and europe must do much more to combat it. does the commission agree with me that the eu crisis platform needs a much stronger mandate? and does she agree with me that the european council should decide on that later this week?
another debate today. i have been actively involved in this since july, and the first point was the central control of the airports, the central coordination, the development of a vaccine, but most importantly, the aid to west africa. thank you for the funding that has been made available for the development of the vaccine. fortunately, my call for this has also been heeded. but we're a long way from there. it's not enough. however, the approach in the member states is all-encompassing. belgium does carry out checks at airports, but the netherlands does not. this is creating uncertainty and fear among the civilian population. how are we going to centralize this? how are we gonna take care of him? because citizens travel by detours, through risky countries, to here. furthermore, additional funding and coordination outside europe. can you assure me that we're really in control? and finally , what about the african citizens? when will europe respond to the call of the international community to send more commitment and resources to the affected countries? we can help europe much more and much better than we have done so far. that is what we are europe for. finally, the most important thing: how do we prevent each other from panicking? that's the whole point.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr andor for his work as commissioner for social affairs and employment, at a time when many people have been going through very difficult times in this area. it was precisely this difficult period that was the subject of the milan summit. of course it is good when government leaders come together to talk about the worrying employment situation, but it is all the more disconcerting when the 24 million unemployed who are waiting at home at that moment actually hear that nothing has come out of the summit. the new commission is focusing on jobs and growth, but how the commission really intends to spend the promised 300 billion is not yet clear to me, and not all heads of government seem equally enthusiastic about this plan. i would say that concrete proposals must be put forward as soon as possible, because people cannot wait any longer, and all 28 commissioners must put employment at the centre and think from their portfolios how they can contribute to growth and real good jobs.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i first would like to thank mr philippe de backer for his collaboration in getting to a consensus report. i do not know whether this is a kiss of death, with a green thanking a liberal, and i do not know whether there will then be a kiss of death from him to me again. but, of course, this is a hugely important discussion in our group as well and for all the political groups. i mean, it is very clear there is a pro-european majority in this house which is stressing the importance of the semester and i think that is also clear from the report. this is also a very clear call to the council and the member states to take this process more seriously. this is not something that you say ‘yes’ to in brussels and then go home and say ‘well that was decided over there by strangers’. this is our policy, and if we want to survive together we have to take seriously the economic governance we do together. that is in the report and is very important. however, at the same time we do know there is a huge political division on the direction of the different structural reforms. and here let me be very clear also to mr katainen, who until now agreed with me, but now i would really like to stress that our group is very, very critical of the way the commission has performed the structural reforms. it is a one-sided way on austerity, it is a one-sided way where reform is mainly flexibilisation of the labour market, and then assuming that will save all. that is not the case so we need a more balanced approach. fortunately, of course, we would have liked to see more critical remarks on the current structural reforms being proposed. however, in the report we see that there is more room for a balanced approach. there is more room for social indicators thanks to the committee on employment and social affairs also. there is more room for environmental reforms. there is more room for investments, and i think that all together is a good direction indicating that the course of europe should be changing and therefore in the end, in this consensus, i subscribe to the consensus, but really let us work on it. otherwise we will lose the support of the people.
in writing. - i think that people should not be the victims of a failed european social and economic policy. that is why i voted for the european globalisation adjustment fund, but i think it is a bloodbath. i think that the companies and the member states themselves should come up with appropriate support measures, because now they are simply pumping money from the member states around. large multinationals such as ford and psa (peugeot-citroën) are putting their workers on the streets after years of faithful service, as they move production to places where they can find cheaper labour. i condemn these degrading practices in the strongest possible terms and with the resources of the european fund we will at least ensure that the workers who are dismissed are not left in the cold.
in writing. - i think that people should not be the victims of a failed european social and economic policy. that is why i voted for the european globalisation adjustment fund, but i think it is a bloodbath. i think that the companies and the member states themselves should come up with appropriate support measures, because now they are simply pumping money from the member states around. large multinationals such as ford and psa (peugeot-citroën) are putting their workers on the streets after years of faithful service, as they move production to places where they can find cheaper labour. i condemn these degrading practices in the strongest possible terms and with the resources of the european fund we will at least ensure that the workers who are dismissed are not left in the cold.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in natural gas. the energy union cannot be achieved without ambition. and that ambition is not very high among some governments and some members of this house, often under the guise of economic consequences. but let us not forget that many companies, a significant part of the business community, which is not afraid, sees the need for change and sees many opportunities. for example, 49 companies are advocating a 40 percent improvement in energy efficiency. european leaders are in danger of being overtaken by european companies, and that is an important signal that i would like to send out loud in this house. the european parliament is calling for 40-30-40 binding targets and has also shown the necessary ambition. it is now up to the leaders, this weekend at this council, to show the same ambitions so that the energy union is indeed an instrument to achieve those ambitions.
i would like to make one point about the 2015 budget. what we are seeing is an annual conflict between the countries and the european institutions. it is too tempting to say yes and do no, to make commitments and not pay the payments, especially in difficult times like these. it's an annual conflict, and it's a conflict with no winners. the disadvantages are significant, reinforcing the image of overspending, when in fact spending has decreased since 2013. and, moreover, the european commission is building up a debt, which should not be, in disguise, almost surreptitiously. accounts remain unpaid, jeopardizing investment in knowledge and research. that is not strengthening the european economy, especially in this time of low growth and few jobs. it's a conflict with no winners. i am therefore glad that the european parliament is taking a clear stand and is reversing the cuts in heading 1a. but i also welcome the gesture, if the european parliament does so, of having each party come up with the structural solutions to this annual, entrenched conflict. i hope the commission will take note of this gesture. i hope that this gesture will be seen by the member states. it is seen in the netherlands and is positively received there. let us not be trapped in the annual, baked conflict.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, in response to mr kirkhope, he is quite right when he says that we should respect each other and not lecture each other. in return, when i express my views, i do not want to be accused of being excessively ideological and attacking, or being part of a left-wing conspiracy, as i keep reading in the hungarian media. let us first make very clear that we are not talking about hungary here tonight. we are talking about europe – our european union and our shared values. it is true that we have talked about the situation in hungary before, but that is because the situation gives reason for concern. is hungary the only country where we have reason for concern? no, it is not, but it happens that in hungary the problem is not just one law where hungary or the hungarian government is not respecting the european treaties. the problem is that there is a whole set of laws which probably do not violate the treaties individually, but the overall impact is stifling. it causes a lot of pressure on pluralism and freedom of speech. we are talking about opposition political parties, the media, the judiciary, the education sector and civil society. the measures are never laws telling people that they cannot speak their minds, but they are fiscal measures, procurement rules and budgetary measures. i think that it is very important that we have this debate because this is as important for the future functioning of the european union as the debate on the stability pact. i hope that the next commission is going to be more active, more courageous and less legalistic, because this is about the future of the european union that belongs to all of us. finally, to be fair, something was brought to our attention last weekend and that is the entry ban imposed by the united states against certain unnamed hungarian government officials. i do not think that is the way and i think that this also calls for a response from the commission and the council because we europeans are responsible for what happens in europe. we are responsible for safeguarding civil liberties, fundamental rights and the rule of law. i think this is something we debate amongst ourselves and it is not for the americans to tell us.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposals. i am not giving an economic explanation, but i understand it to mean a state which does not take the principle of individual freedom as its starting point. i think orban's on his way. i think the facts are clear: judges retired early, data protection supervisor replaced, media mugged, ngos compromised. the european commission can say 'they have also reversed some of it', but those judges have not returned to their posts, nor has that data protection supervisor, and those ngos and those media are still under pressure. and then the council can say 'this is not up to us, we have only discussed fundamental rights in general terms and the commission must solve it', but we will not get there that way. it is also a pity that we are here tonight to talk to the old european commission. i would like to discuss this with the new european commission, with frans timmermans, the new european commissioner for fundamental rights, who says 'i have to study hard again'. this european parliament has studied. we have the facts. we have the proposal to introduce an article 2 procedure. we must act now. not just the european commission; it's also something we need to look at together. because as long as this parliament says that the candidate for european commissioner, mr navracsics, is good enough to do his job, we are sending the signal that they can continue to do what they are doing in budapest. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). ]
"blue card" is the answer. yes, of course i read the translation of the speech, because i am not fluent in hungarian. i don't think that if you base yourself on christian values, that you have to discriminate against minorities. i respect christian values, but you should also respect other values. and i think that an 'illiberal state' which no longer starts from the individual is a dangerous state which is in contradiction with our copenhagen criteria, with or without christian values.
blue-card question. – i am not really sure whether i am actually asking a question to ms morvai. i think i can have a conversation with any colleague i like, including yourself, without having to explain myself publicly before you. yes, in a democracy you can actually have a peaceful conversation with people who do not share your views. this may be new to you, but that is the way we like to do it in the european parliament. yes, i disagree with mr szájer and ms gál on a number of issues, but there are also things that we have in common, so we have a debate. it is called democracy.
i do not accept it when you say that i am waging war on hungary. i do not accept that. i was just checking: we have had debates in this chamber on human rights violations in a number of countries, including eu member states. ten years ago, this house adopted a very strong resolution on media freedom under berlusconi in italy. is that war on italy? no, madam morvai, this is the struggle for freedom – freedom of speech and democracy in the european union. maybe you should join in.
it is sad that we have to have a debate here about the way in which a member state is trampling on all the important values that we stand for in the eu. the council is silent and watches. what is happening in hungary is not a series of incidents. what is happening in hungary is the deliberate and effective demolition of a young state of law. prime minister orban himself is no longer comfortable with this and has explicitly admitted this this summer. a liberal democracy is not spent on him. let it be clear: orban sees democracy as a tool for his authoritarian rule, and everyone knows that elections alone do not make a country democratic. this is not a call from a left-wing politician who is frustrated with a right-wing government. this is a call from one democrat to other democrats to say loud and clear: "we will no longer accept this in the european union". (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) ]
"blue card" is the answer. it is sad that my ppe colleague still defines 'liberal democracy' as a form of government that only liberals can represent. fortunately, all the democrats - social democrats, christian democrats, liberals - in this house are for liberal democracy. it is not just the social democrats.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the exceptional provocations and aggression by putin’s russia in our eastern neighbourhood continue to be cause for great concern. at their root is the choice of the ukrainians to seek stronger ties with the eu. choosing rules-based trade and a movement towards an open society will require difficult reforms. the deep and comprehensive trade agreement which is part of the association agreement is set to enter into force on 1 january 2016. meanwhile, preferential trade measures were already adopted in april 2014 as part of the support package for ukraine. since their implementation, trade between the eu and ukraine has increased drastically. ukrainian exports to the eu increased by 25 % in may and june of this year compared to the same period last year and during the first six months of 2014 exports from ukraine to russia fell by 24 %. these figures show the importance of the autonomous trade measures for the ukrainian economy. not extending them would not only seem a political statement but would have a very real economic impact on the country and its people. given the economic asymmetry between the eu and ukraine, the increase in exports from ukraine is economically important for the country but it has relatively little effect on us in the eu. in principle, the autonomous trade measures do not allow illegal products onto the european market. all products must conform to eu standards, but the increase in trade may make it harder to control them. however this should not lead to products coming onto the european market which would otherwise be illegal and which could harm european producers. the regulation before us prolongs the autonomous trade measures and amends the existing regulation to make access by ukraine to the preferential conditions conditional upon respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as respect for the rule of law. this is also mentioned in the association agreement. it is now important that these conditions are met and that the timeframe is kept. exceptional circumstances call for exceptional measures but the goal remains to see a structural solution.
madam president, i naturally support this arrangement, as do mrs schaake and mrs kallas. this is good for ukraine and we should support ukraine. i find it intolerable, however, that this compromise was reached on the basis of russian blackmail. ukraine has been under enormous pressure. that became clear to me in brussels. that has become clear to me in moscow and in kiev. and finally, in a year and a half, we must not allow that russian pressure to be rewarded again. that can't happen. i also agree with those who say that our agricultural sector must not reap the sour fruits. animal welfare, public health, these are the kinds of things that obviously should not be submitted. it is necessary to consider whether the agricultural sector can be given some compensation because it too is suffering from a russian embargo. but again, we have to help ukraine and that is why we are fully in favour of this arrangement.
member of the commission. - madam president, the eu should definitely continue to support the comprehensive peace process in ukraine, respecting the country’s territorial integrity and its right to decide on its destiny. we must stand shoulder to shoulder with ukraine in the face of the extremely difficult political and territorial challenges it faces but also in its process of reforms and economic modernisation. parliament’s support in these efforts is vital. delays in the extension of trade preferences should indeed be avoided as this could have an impact on economic operators’ decisions to import goods from ukraine. even retroactive application risks not fully repairing interferences with trade flows and would be cumbersome not only for the economic operators but also for our competent national customs authorities. therefore i urge parliament to endorse the commission’s proposal without amendments. the council should then do its part so that the legislative act can be signed into law and enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. today we are debating the abolition of customs duties on ukrainian goods. or for the sake of completeness: the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 374/2014 on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine. we all know that the intensification of trade relations with ukraine - and thus the increase in european influence in ukraine - can have major geopolitical consequences. so i will not go into that now. but i see another problem: the eu has banned the use of leaf litter and the sale of leaf litter eggs, while ukraine simply allows animal-friendly leaf litter. and what does it show? this proposal simply allows animal products from ukraine, regardless of the living conditions of the animals. how can the eu say with dry eyes that it will end animal-friendly production methods if we simply allow these products through the back door? thanks to the european commission, which has already authorised a major ukrainian egg producer to export to europe, hatchery eggs will soon be back in our shops. i don't understand why you're doing this! i believe that international security, human rights, democracy and the respectful treatment of animals are more important than short-sighted trade policy. that is why i shall vote against this report.
mr president, i would like to say to mr juncker that alde will support his european commission, but mr juncker, let us be clear, we support you in the vote today; that does not mean that you will have a blank cheque for the next five years. our support is not automatic and you will have to work very hard to get our support for every single proposal that you put forward. but you will get our support for anything taking europe forward, making it more democratic, more efficient and better able to act and to face the challenges and the crises of today. we need to get out of the economic crisis, but europe also needs to take up its responsibility on the world stage. for that we need a strong european commission. alde voters went to the ballot box for a stronger, better, different and reformed european union. we want better regulation, yes. but better regulation in our view does not mean dismantling the achievements of the european union. the voters on the right side of the house – there are very few people left there – they also want a change; they want to dissolve the european union. that is not the solution proposed by alde, but we do want europe to move, and i would be very worried to see a so-called große koalition, which seems to be a paralysing embrace leading to stagnation and status quo. europe needs to move. we have talked a lot about the economy, about foreign affairs, about an energy union – lots of concrete things – but i have heard very little about values. values are not a side issue. they are actually the essence, the core, of european integration and if we want to operate as a political union now we need a community of citizens based on shared values. so i expect initiatives for stronger instruments to promote and protect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. but we also expect better enforcement if these values are under pressure in one of the member states and i am looking in particular to mr timmermans, your, let us say, prime minister, who will be in charge of this task. so mr juncker, today, you have our support and you will find us at your side – if you take europe forward.
the citizens want peace and prosperity, but what does this commission want? taking away citizens' pensions and taxing savings. we must not have more european integration, but less. the citizens want peace and prosperity, but what does this commission want? the eu's imperialism knows no bounds at the expense of our security. we need more countries out of the eu, not in the eu. the citizens want peace and prosperity, but what does this commission want? eu travel agencies in north africa to bring in even more money seekers with their barbaric islamic culture. murder, rape and violence have become the norm in our cities thanks to open borders. we do not need external borders, but national borders, as also called for in un resolution 2178. the european union has failed, but this commission continues down the road to nowhere. i ask you: step up and make way for people who will start the dismantling.
the new commission certainly has some positive aspects. i am thinking of the pressure of brussels, which many citizens and businesses are tired of. mr juncker is playing a good game here by giving his first vice-president the task of putting the knife in. it is also right, mr president, that the minister who has for years violated the rules of the stability and growth pact should be restrained by two colleagues. yes, i am referring to the french commissioner. and in the juncker team i meet a few star players like mr timmermans, like the commissioner for agriculture and like the british commissioner. those are positive points. however, mr president, i cannot support the juncker team and i shall abstain because mr juncker's programme is 'more europe, more monetary union and a firm commitment to the euro'. moreover, mr president, some of the commissioners on the team are simply too weak. i have already mentioned the french commissioner, but i also think that the matter of the transport commissioner was not handled wisely. that is why the dutch delegation in the ecr group abstained.
mr president, i would like to welcome mr juncker and his team. i have one minute and will only make one point. the new commission, the team juncker, can push europe in the right direction, towards the hearts and minds of europeans – our voters – by making europe more social, green and transparent. but to do that and push in the right direction europe must get out of the muddling-through scenario of low growth and high unemployment. to do that, we need to get the european economy back on track. increasing private and public investment is key – raising demand in the short term and improving the supply side in the longer term. that is why so many social democrats find the investment plan of eur 300 billion crucial for the economy and for europe. we do not doubt the good intentions of the commission, but we are really disappointed by the lack of detail thus far. only if the investment plans turn out to be real and substantial can the commission continue to count on our cooperation. good luck!
president. - the commission's last chance report is a bit melodramatic, but i think the analysis is correct. europe suffers from a lack of confidence among many citizens. and it is up to this european commission, together with the council and the european parliament, to restore that trust by delivering and by focusing on core tasks. the cda in the european parliament also strongly supports the first vice-president who is responsible for monitoring this focus. as far as we're concerned, those core tasks are: a fair internal market, the securing of raw materials, food and energy, and that in a sustainable way, migration and the much stronger speaking more one voice in the world. but the real challenge ... i am quoting jean-luc dehaene, freely, but i am quoting him and i want to pay tribute to him here, because unfortunately he was lost earlier this year. jean-luc dehaene used to say: "the big question for europe is: what is the future of europe? it will be a bock empire, it will be an open-air museum, or will we succeed in maintaining the competitiveness of our economy?" if you know that european hands are never going to be as cheap as chinese hands, europe will have to be the continent that keeps reinventing itself through smart and sustainable solutions that keep those european hands working. so growth and jobs through smart and sustainable solutions, and - i say to mr tang - not by saddling the coming generations with towering debts. i do not want to be part of the generation of politicians who, in a difficult time, are destroying what my grandparents' generation, my parents' generation, have built in europe. it is precisely now, when things are getting difficult, that europe is worth fighting for. that's what i'm gonna do for the next five years. and i expect no less from you. i wish you the very best of luck.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is not future-proof. there is no investment in animals, nature and the environment. the eu has only one objective: growth! economic growth! almost half of the budget is devoted to agricultural subsidies, regardless of the impact on animals, people, nature or the environment. there is little investment in biodiversity. instead of investing in sustainable agriculture, with plant-based food production at its core, the eu subsidises intensive livestock farming and maintains the transport of live animals for millennia. the european parliament approves this without hesitation; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. take bullfighting, for example. a vast majority of europeans do not want bullfights to be sponsored with their taxpayers' money. however, there was no qualified majority in parliament to actually want to abolish subsidies for bullfighting, whereas the political will did appear a little later (amendment 12, report on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015). these differences are inexplicable and further fuel citizens' mistrust of the european union.
in writing. - france and italy must abide by eurozone agreements! the european union has made agreements to improve the structure and functioning of the eurozone. on wednesday, october 22nd, we'll discuss one of those appointments: the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. at the same time, we see that some countries are trying to bend the rules that have been agreed. the new budgets of france and italy show that these countries refuse to comply with the commitments of the stability and growth pact. if france and italy do not comply with the stability and growth pact, we will be back to the situation of 2003. then germany and france ignored the rules of the sgp and thus laid the foundations for the current euro crisis. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the rules of the sgp are respected. france and italy must comply with the rules they themselves agreed to a few years ago.
mr president, in the last weeks we have witnessed a humanitarian crisis unfolding in kobane. around 200 000 people have escaped the terror of islamic state, seeking refuge in turkey. as has been said already by many previous speakers, kobane has become the symbol of the fight against this terrorist organisation, which poses a threat not only to the security of syrians, iraqis and countries in the region, but a threat to all of us. that is also the reason why we have to be united in our fight against is. the situation in kobane has already deeply affected the internal situation in turkey. we witness different groups within turkish society attacking each other and putting extra pressure on the settlement process. it is of crucial importance that the peace process remain on the table and that all sides continue with the road map that is to be set up. it is our moral obligation to support the kurds fighting off is and defending their city in kobane. what turkey has done in terms of taking up a huge number of refugees from syria is to be commended, and i also welcome the latest statements that not only humanitarian aid can pass through the border from turkey to syria but also the kurds from iraq will be allowed to reinforce the kurds in kobane. we have to jointly ensure that we will not allow islamic state this important symbolic victory, as it would also certainly set back the morale of the iraqi kurds. not neglecting the situation in kobane, we must also take into account the overall situation. the threat of islamic state has certainly not diminished, also in iraq, where it has even become bigger in some parts of the country. last but not least, let us not forget that a large part of the funding of this terrorist organisation comes from the illicit sale of oil and goods. we have to ascertain that eu member states are in no case involved in the illicit trade and all channels used by is to sell this oil need to be closed off.
i would like to ask the council a clear and simple question. that question is: is the candidate country turkey fully committed to fighting isis together with the european union or not? i ask this question, mr president of the council, because observers in the region with whom i am in close contact told me years ago, and still do today, that turkey is fully co-responsible for the current manpower and logistical strength of the islamic state of isis. so, with that in mind, i ask the question: is turkey actually fighting isis with us or not? i ask that question again with extra urgency because my observers told me yesterday that there is also considerable sympathy for isis in turkey. what's that about? a very dubious case. finally, the threat of isis is a regional one. the council knows that too. how does the council assess the danger posed by the presence of isis and its allies in gaza and sinai? and what is the eu's strategy in the face of this further destabilisation of the region? because that's the case, too. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a blue card (rule 162 (8)).)
"blue card" is the answer. with all due respect, i do not understand your question at all. i have been dealing with this for some years in this parliament, longer than you have, and i have always pointed out the dubious role of turkey as a candidate country in the common european security and foreign policy. and that was often on a tight footing. i have always drawn the council's attention to this, but it has been very silent about it. mrs ashton, the great absentee, was also very quiet. it's an extraordinary constant that i hear. - what?
mr president, today we were listening to the plans of commission president juncker, and you would not have known that the world was on fire from hearing that. there was hardly a word on the urgent need for us to have an effective and common foreign and security policy. now we are literally watching yet another disaster unfolding in kobane, and we should be urged to be more than bystanders. the time it takes before decisive action is taken to protect the people in kobane resembles the world’s paralysation in the face of the war in syria. remember the arguments used not to take effective action: if we removed assad, then the jihadists would take over? today we still have both, along with 200 000 dead, millions on the run, and girls and women – particularly vulnerable – in an unacceptable manner being enslaved, raped and married off. the eu must work with turkey and avoid strengthening jihadists, who are also funded by actors in the persian gulf that we still consider allies. we must end this crisis, which is caused by misguided jihadists also from within the eu.
i would like to join with all those who have expressed their dismay at the developments and events in kobani. the images that have reached us from kobani have made a deep impression on all of us. the importance of this debate is therefore clear to everyone, except apparently to the european commission. i would also like to join those who have spoken about the scandalous absence of the commission here today. the european commission should also be aware of the urgency of this debate. two weeks ago we had kurdish demonstrators in the european parliament, kurdish demonstrators who were frightened and angry at the lack of a european and international response to the dangers in kobani. these demonstrators did not come to parliament to hear our fine words, our fine resolutions that we have adopted in support of them. they wanted action to ensure the safety of their families, their friends in kobani. these european responses, these international responses, will remain silent for the time being. president juncker said this morning: "isis is the enemy of our european values, isil is the enemy of everything on which europe is built". and yet, a european response remains to be seen. we are, as usual in syria, letting the united states take the hot chestnuts out of the fire. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is high time that the deafening silence from europe came to an end.
mr president, the people in hong kong have had every reason to demand a more democratic system for decades, after living in an unfree society for far too long. wealth is not everything and not everyone is benefiting from economic growth. after china’s promise for more democracy and electoral reforms was broken, a mass of people formed, one by one, bottom-up, peacefully reminding the government and the world of their rights. although we are far away, we should embrace those individuals who demand universal rights and freedoms. trade relations, however important, should not be an excuse for us to be silent. globally, people brave enough to challenge repression should be able to count on us in europe in open societies. from ashton’s side it has been too quiet. from the council’s side it has been too quiet. from juncker, who seems to have forgotten the rest of the world exists at all, going by his talk this morning, we expect more and we will look with great ambition to high representative mogherini to deliver on those promises and ambitions. it is clear that this house is now the one that will have to push for external action based on values, otherwise the eu will be irrelevant and the people in hong kong will find no one by their side.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). it was almost unanimously decided to hold this debate today on asia bibi. our proposal has broad support. we are talking about asia bibi. we're talking about this blasphemy law. we're talking about the death penalty that can be imposed for alleged insult to the prophet muhammad. the commission has already made a number of proposals. now stop that death sentence against asia bibi, stop that blasphemy law, end the thousands of situations that are similar to asia bibi's. this parliament was crystal clear last monday. and the high representative must now quickly come up with any means of preventing the execution of that death sentence. i am thinking here of trade sanctions based on the agreements we have with pakistan. now is the time to take action, and not just for her. we know there are thousands of other "asia bibi's" in the same circumstances. the time for talking to pakistan is over. it is time for action, for action. not words, but actions. stop the blasphemy laws! free asia bibi now! our prayers are with her.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council. we shall soon know whether this working party will be given intergroup status, but in any case we shall continue our work with full force. the condemnation of asia bibi shows how necessary it is to give special attention to religious freedom in the context of human rights policy. how can it be that there are people and institutions, even judges, who do not want to give a person from asia the opportunity to profess her faith? because we're not gonna let this go unanswered. pakistan's blasphemy laws make it dangerous, if not impossible for religious minorities in pakistan to express their faith, and that while faith is the most fundamental thing in their lives for those who adhere to it. not only in pakistan, but in more and more countries around the world, tolerance is declining. i remain confident in initiatives for interfaith dialogue. but when you see what's happening in pakistan and how the pakistani government is systematically refusing to protect religious minorities, we can't just build on these kinds of initiatives. then sanctions from the european union are necessary. my personal prayers also go out to asia and to all those others who are threatened because of their faith.
mr president, this week a pakistani court upheld the death sentence of asia bibi, a wife and mother of five. it's a terrible situation. that's sharia. that is islam. murder and violence, persecution and oppression of dissent, in the name of a violent ideology that demands human sacrifice. billions of dollars in development aid have gone to this barbaric country. it's not working and it won't work. this parliament and the commission have been talking about human rights for years, but when it comes to islam, there is a sudden silence. will the commission finally speak out forcefully against the brutal punishments and laws based on sharia? will the commission finally exclude from aid and support muslim countries which persecute, rob and murder minorities? will the commission give its unconditional support to asia bibi and to all those other christians, jews, hindus, buddhists and atheists who are being humiliated, persecuted and slaughtered in muslim countries? i call on this commission to stop all support for this barbaric country and to demand that the pakistani government annul this judgment immediately.
president. - i fully agree with some of the previous speakers who have spoken on the distressing case of asia bibi. it is a matter of concern to me that, as in the previous debate on kobani, the european commission, in the capacity of mrs ashton, is absent, despite the fact that we are dealing with substantial and important matters. what can we do as europe? can we allow this kind of practice to take place in a country with which we have a partnership agreement, article 1 of which says that it is based on shared values, on shared values of fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, when we can see with our own eyes that democracy and the rule of law do not exist there at the moment? can we allow this to happen in a country which benefits fully from the general system of tariff preferences which we as europe offer because of the progress being made? are the european commission and the european council prepared to use that cooperation agreement and that system of preferential conditions as a means of pressure to put pressure on the pakistani government to commit itself to asia bibi and also to do much more in the general area of the adaptation of the blasphemy laws?
mr president, earlier this year a pakistani christian told us that many muslims in his country consider christians to be 'unclean' and therefore do not want to live with them in a village or neighbourhood. he said it was a profound thing. i quote him: "they are wounding us mentally". mr president, it was precisely this social exclusion, on religious grounds, 'christian impurity', that led to an exchange of words between the pakistani christian woman asia bibi and some of her fellow villagers in 2009. what followed was a pure violation of the law under the invocation of a poisonous blasphemy law, and the death sentence was signed against asia bibi. until today! what does asia bibi expect from western christians? i quote her word for word: "prayer and a call to their governments to protect persecuted pakistani christians". that is why i am today making a strong appeal to the 28 member states of the european union: the european union is also calling for the release of the three men who were killed in the attack on the un headquarters in kabul. with this pakistani self-purification, asia bibi will surely be released and pakistani christians will surely become free citizens!
thank you, mr president. i would also like to thank mrs malmström for her presence here. we have missed her colleague, mrs ashton, in the last three debates. i thank you very much for the respect you do show to parliament by being here and discussing these important matters with us. we adopted a resolution just before the summer recess, stressing the urgency of the fight against isis in iraq and syria. since we adopted that resolution, more than a thousand jihadists have left europe for syria and iraq. we need a coordinated european approach to tackle this problem. as jean-claude juncker rightly said in his speech this morning: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. the 2013 council adopted four priorities for such a coordinated approach: prevention, information exchange, criminal law and cooperation with third countries. i wonder now: how far has this approach progressed and what concrete results have been achieved? a specific question i would like to ask is about the europol focal point for travellers. the purpose of this is to exchange and analyse information on suspects who may wish to travel abroad. are all countries now active in this network? if not, do you think that participation should be made compulsory in order to ensure the most efficient approach possible? point two: does this system apply to returning jihadists? can we also monitor people returning from syria and iraq through a european register that all countries participate in? finally, i would like to say to my colleague, frank engel: we need to fight isis in syria and iraq, but we also need to pay close attention to the grounds on which young people are being radicalized in our own member states and the ways in which organisations are being given the space to facilitate and organise travel to syria and iraq from our own european countries. the member states must also take responsibility and take important steps in this respect.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). estimates vary from 150,000 to 450,000 people. the european union is responsible for this. the european union facilitates smugglers and their dangerous journeys in old boats by providing frontex not as a border guard but as a shuttle service. immigrants are being picked up at sea and brought to european shores instead of being returned to their countries of origin. once on european soil, they disappear, only to reappear kilometres away within the schengen area, for example in the netherlands, and apply for asylum. operation mos maiorum is therefore moping with the faucet open. this operation demonstrates all the more the failure of this policy and the need to return the competence for asylum and immigration to the member states. this is the only way that anything can really be done to control this constant flow of immigration. the member states should regain their competence over their own borders and set up reception centres in the region.
mr president, it is of course a good thing that human trafficking is being tackled. right now, criminals outside are expressing the desperation of migrants. but i fear that in this kind of action not only the smugglers are being targeted, but also the undocumented migrants are being branded and treated as criminals. the operation mos maiorum therefore raises many questions. for example, i have great concerns about political accountability, transparency and democratic control, and in addition, about the risk of discrimination and racial profiling. it is unacceptable that this kind of joint police operation is not subject to any democratic control by the european parliament or by the national parliaments, and that such actions raise many questions. like this: what happens to the migrants who are detained without the proper papers? what happens to the intelligence gathered during previous operations? and does this not lead to repressive actions that in turn lead to a greater sense of hostility towards migrants in society? the first step towards transparency has been taken by holding this debate here tonight and i hope that the council will come up with concrete answers.
author. - madam president, putin’s aggression towards his neighbours requires urgent attention, but must never overshadow the human rights situation in russia itself. civil society, journalists and opposition figures are all repressed and intimidated and the russian people live in an unfree free society, although propaganda suggests otherwise. laws systematically undermine freedoms and give authorities greater unchecked powers. the closing of memorial is more than symbolic. its founder, andrei sakharov, inspired the name of our human rights award which was given to memorial in 2009. we urge the scheduled law suit against them of 13 november to be recalled and to revoke all conspiracy-theory-driven foreign agent laws against ngos. the government of the russian federation should at the very least adhere to agreements it has itself made in the context of the council of europe, the osce, the european court of human rights and, of course, its own constitution. we see a clear difference between ill-guided kremlin policies and the population of russia, and we support their aspiration for a just, democratic and free russia.
the fundamental right to freedom of religion - i have not heard that yet - is being flagrantly violated in many ways by the authorities in uzbekistan. four concrete examples addressed to the commission and the council. 1) private possession of christian literature is prohibited and will result in lawsuits if violated. (2) meetings of individual christians in private homes are disrupted by brutal governmental action. 3) excessive fines are imposed on professed christians in uzbekistan. 4) confiscation of property, even vacuum cleaners, from uzbek christians is common. despite all these governmental harassments, uzbek christians fearlessly continue to preach the gospel. the eu should be equally fearless in its defence of this basic freedom, the freedom to profess one's faith, before the uzbek authorities.
in writing. - i support the extension of trade advantages to ukraine, especially in the light of the current political situation in ukraine; i do, however, object to the duty-free importation of hatching eggs from third countries into the eu. rechargeable batteries are no longer allowed in the eu; it is undesirable and inexplicable that the eu allows and encourages the import of hatching eggs from third countries into the eu.
mr president, i have another complaint about this procedure, which is that it is not secret. if someone votes in favour, their light turns blue. if they do not vote there is no light, so that is not a secret vote.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, once again we are discussing here a new crisis of confidence. i think it is very urgent that the dark clouds that we have all observed are lifted. my group leader has rightly said that the united states, since the last elections, is a lame duck, and the world cannot afford a second world power which is completely paralysed by another crisis. so the eu has to act swiftly. there has been a lot of finger-pointing this afternoon, but let us just recognise that we all have a shared responsibility; the commission, the european parliament as well as the member states. i would like to say that i see eurosceptics of the left and the right are smelling blood, but all they propose is to stick to the status quo. i would like to know from the commission exactly what the investigation entails, other than the four cases of potential illegal state aid. what about the other hundreds of agreements that were exposed by luxleaks? incidentally, i would propose that the special committee for an investigation, that we suggested be set up in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, looks into that matter. i heard from commissioner moscovici, who is representing the commission in this case, about future legislation aiming in particular to eliminate tax avoidance. we would also like to know about past cases that are being investigated, and i would like to have seen here our liberal commissioner ms vestager whom, incidentally, i trust 100% to lead the investigation. (the speaker agree to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – speaking of missing the point, mr etheridge, i did not compare the tax system of the united states to that of europe – not remotely. as a matter of fact, we do not even have a common tax system. all i was saying is that the us administration at the moment is a lame duck as the result of the elections, putting the administration opposite congress. i am afraid that the european union will also become an administrative lame duck because there are these dark clouds hanging over the administration. that is what i was comparing, mr etheridge.
madam president, combating tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens is a global, broad and complicated issue. there is nothing wrong as such with competing on investment climates and business climates, but this also has a state aid aspect. in this area the eu has an important role. we think it is a good idea to install a specific committee in this parliament to have a debate on these issues. however, the focus should be on principles not on specific cases or countries. on the global level the oecd has done some good work with its recommendations and we advise that we use this as a starting point.
of course, tax evasion must be tackled, because it cannot be that ordinary people and smes pay full tax and multinationals do not. the commission's choice of state aid is a mere means. the commission requires member states to provide information on tax arrangements with companies. it then assesses whether there is any unlawful state aid. the commission shall take these decisions in complete independence. neither the national parliaments nor the european parliament can influence this. in fact, they do not even have the underlying information on those tax agreements. that's the world upside down. the member states are already working together in the framework of the oecd in paris. why does the commission not make efforts to facilitate this process? the fact is that the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not a mere spectator. it is more democratic and ultimately more effective, because it is based on support rather than dictation.
the practices we are discussing today are not new, as we all know. they're not illegal either. but not everything that is legal is desirable. i think that's the heart of this debate. let us admit that the tax rulings we are talking about rightly confirm the feeling of dishonesty of citizens and small businesses who pay their taxes properly. of course, there is nothing wrong with healthy competition per se, but there is something wrong with it when it leads to discrimination, state aid or unfair competition. then you must act. and if we are to take real steps against tax evasion, then we as the european parliament will need this european commission very badly. the council is not enthusiastic about this and it is decided by unanimity. but be careful. we also know that some in this house are completely unable to tackle tax evasion. some people just automatically put their heels in the sand. there are also those who want to change the vote on the juncker commission because he was not their candidate. and there are others who see this debate as an excuse to push the overall level of taxation in europe even higher. that is not our agenda as the ppe group. our question to them is: can they leap over their own shadow and let go of their personal vendetta or their secret agenda to tackle collective tax avoidance? our hand is outstretched. the question is: are you able to accept them and do so in a responsible manner?
in writing. everyone should pay their taxes properly, including large companies. tax evasion and avoidance lead to economic deficits which society then has to fill. that is why european rules are needed to combat tax evasion. companies operating in several countries should also be transparent and provide country-by-country information on the profits they have made and the taxes they pay on them. worldwide, at least 14 trillion euros have been stashed away in tax havens, two thirds of which are even in bank accounts in eu countries such as luxembourg and the netherlands. a large part of this money has been withdrawn from developing regions without paying taxes. that's extra grim because with that tax, twice as much can be done to end extreme poverty in the world. the tax evasion by multinationals therefore affects the poorest of the poor in this world and europe must act against it. the party for the animals does not expect juncker, former prime minister of luxembourg, to do this. luxembourg (like the netherlands, by the way) has always blocked european rules on transparency of taxes paid. is it likely that he will go to war against the tax haven he himself has created and maintained?
i thank the president of the european court of auditors and the commissioner for her words. it will not surprise you that i agree with mrs gräble's critical tone. is anything really going to change in the next few years? that's the central question. a rate of error which, with all due respect, has fallen from 4.8% to 4.7% is not enough for the european citizen. we cannot, to put it popularly, take that home with us. we have lost seven billion euros and i certainly do not agree with colleagues who say that this money has gone to the mafia, but with this money we could improve half the backlog in german infrastructure. my question to the commissioner is therefore: what are we going to do in the coming years, particularly to the member states? the member states have a much bigger role to play here than we think. i would like to ask you again - we have done so at the hearings - for the national management declaration. the member states have a greater responsibility in spending european money than we think here in brussels. finally, mr president, the question of simplification. both in the application and in the settlement it can be simpler. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. that does clarify my point. the seven billion - and the honourable member is right - have not been lost, but misused. thank you very much.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group wants to make the problem not bigger, but smaller, and we can only do this by referring to international law. as previous speakers have said, the exclusive economic zone is a republic of cyprus economic zone and it means that turkey has nothing to do there. it can only explore or exploit with the licence of the republic of cyprus, period. i agree with those who said we want to have both communities of cyprus not only find each other and come to an agreement but also benefit from the resources. this can be done, but this parliament should respect international law and it means that turkey cannot continue its activities in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, period.
mr president, eight months ago this house welcomed the positive developments coming out of cyprus. the joint declaration by the leaders of the greek and turkish communities of cyprus marked the relaunch of talks on the reunification of the island which would bring all unresolved issues to the table to reach a fair, comprehensive and viable settlement. today, a turkish maritime survey vessel is within cyprus’ exclusive economic zone and the reunification talks have been suspended. we risk losing completely the momentum of eight months ago and this would have detrimental consequences, not just for the people living on the island, but it would also negatively affect the entire region. what the eastern mediterranean needs most right now is a beacon of hope. all parties should act with awareness of this responsibility. turkey must respect cyprus’s sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone. the legality of the exclusive economic zone of cyprus cannot be questioned. but it is also important to underline that the conditionality can be put on the right of both communities on the island to benefit from possible gas exploitation. the leaders of both communities have to return to the negotiation table for a comprehensive settlement to the problem. in this regard the un secretary-general’s adviser for cyprus, mr eide, must be fully supported in his efforts. in the joint declaration eight months ago, the leaders of the two communities committed themselves to avoiding blame games. the people of cyprus and the region now need them to honour this commitment.
in the run-up to this debate on the humanitarian crisis in south sudan, i have been studying the most recent reports. i also spoke at length with the dutch aid organisation zoa, which has been closely involved with a south sudanese population now suffering from violence, disease and hunger since 1998. the image that comes to mind when i consider it all on the intersection is truly frightening. just take the forecast that 2.5 million south sudanese will face severe food shortages in the first quarter of 2015, which is next year. then there will be more difficult months. it is clear that the structural approach to the current humanitarian crisis in south sudan calls for an immediate end to political violence. at the same time, as the commissioner has stressed, european aid remains of the utmost urgency. the dutch organizations closely involved in this process also greatly appreciate this european support. there is one point i would like to make here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's why they missed the boat. and that can never be the point. i hope that the european commission and echo will take this up in brussels, because there are excellent, well-equipped organisations in the netherlands with experts who are keen to participate in european aid to south sudan. but then they should be able to.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i think he's right about that. only, what does it mean that the warring parties understand that we are becoming impatient? 1.8 million people on the run. famine is lurking. two men who should be building a new state together are fighting each other to the death. and this youngest state in the world, rich in oil, is falling into war and falling back into the curse of resources. it's getting out of hand, and yes, you're right, we're getting impatient. but we cannot become impatient, because humanitarian aid will and must always be provided. of course we have stopped budget support. because what can you say about budget support when there is no government? but we must be careful that we do continue to pay for humanitarian aid, that we do not use the budgetary support for something else. for food, for the position of women, for reproductive aid and reproductive rights - which is a matter of considerable debate in this house - because in times of war women are in a difficult situation, women are raped, women have to scrape together a living. what we can also do is to press for further sanctions, sanctions by the african union and perhaps to tighten up our own sanctions, because they have so far had too little effect. i agree with you, our patience is running out, and yet we have no choice but to keep trying.
the proposed amendment to protocol 31 to the eea agreement of 12 may 2014 further extends the financial freedom of movement of the european commission to facilitate the free movement of migrants from third countries now also via the efta countries, including norway. we now know how big the problems are with muslim migrants in norway. in oslo, rape of western women by non-western immigrants is a daily occurrence. the police are afraid to go into islamized neighborhoods. a country like norway, with its absurd open borders policy towards non-western immigrants, is the gateway to the rest of the european union. this is contrary to un resolution 2178, which, precisely because of the danger of jihadists, requires each country to prevent this free movement between member states. therefore, i conclude: this proposal is outrageous and should be thrown out.
first of all, i would like to thank commissioner thyssen. the fact that she is making her first appearance in the european parliament here at 11 p.m. is a sign of great commitment. i join previous colleagues who have already said that we look forward to working together over the next five years. i also join with my colleagues, mrs mcintyre and mrs harkin, who have raised some questions about the merits of this debate tonight, especially as we are talking here in november 2014 about decisions that should have come into force on 1 january 2014. my question is: how does this work and how has this been going for the past 11 months? secondly, i am very pleased that we are also coordinating our agreement on the free movement of workers and the coordination of social security with countries such as norway, liechtenstein and switzerland, with which we as european countries also have many borders. i would like to call for a close look at the way in which the coordination of social security and the free movement of workers is regulated in our own eu. i think there are still many areas of improvement where border work, access to cross-border care and cross-border entrepreneurship are concerned. i hope that we can put that emphasis together over the next five years. i wish you the best of luck with that.
mr president, i have a request which is a bit out of order, but it is the last opportunity i have to put this request to you before the next part-session in strasbourg. it concerns an incident regarding a painting that is part of an exhibition put on display by the italian presidency. the painting is this one that i am holding up. i have been told that our colleagues gollnisch and borghezio have damaged the painting because they consider it blasphemous and offensive. i have been told that this house has removed the painting and it will be removed until the end of the italian presidency. i would ask this house not to give in to such unacceptable pressure on the freedom of expression, and to put the painting back up. if not, then just put up a print. (applause)
for the ppe group this week is the first full meeting in strasbourg, the first plenary meeting with the new commission. you were in all but one of them. it's also a good time to put a finger on the investments. the commission will present its 300 billion juncker plan on wednesday. new money, all good. but today, with this question, we are putting our finger on what we already have, on the budgets that have already been set aside. and then we talk about the european investment structures, investment funds of the order of some 360 billion euros. and there is a major pain point. the pain point is - and you also mentioned it - that things do not get going fast enough. you say: 'the formal framework was only approved at the end of 2013.' i'm not so sure about that. we had the whole framework in place at the end of 2012, we had a code of conduct, in which we agreed with the member states that they would now really come up with programmes and that they would behave in the spirit of the code of conduct. well, it has taken the necessary time, and that is disappointing. that is why i have this question and this concern. we must ensure that the transfer is made in time, as you have indicated. we want the exact track record, the exact dates for that from you. after all, this week is about those investments, that investment plan. would you even consider the following thought: we have so many instruments, we have made risk sharing, public/private partnerships, as well as revolving funds possible in the framework of our resolutions. do you not think that the juncker investment plan is an important basis for doing even more for a smarter, greener and more competitive europe with jobs? i'd like to hear you say that. and i'm not going to go into the unpaid bills pile this time. because you've reassured me of that. i suspect that in december the member states will have a very large pile of bills which they have saved. and then it will suddenly turn out that the unpaid bills at the beginning of next year are still significantly higher than we think now. but i'll give you the benefit of the doubt.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today we were reminded of what is at stake in this debate that has been ongoing for too long: ethical hackers investigated how our eu institutions were attacked by malware that steals data. the malware presents itself like software that we use every day or enters through the belgian mobile phone carrier – software not hardware – using zero-day exploits. experts have compared regin to stuxnet, with which iran’s nuclear facilities were attacked a few years ago, and found it in countries like russia, mexico, saudi arabia and iran. and while it is popular to look to china or russia as perpetrators of such sophisticated attacks, the research published today leads me to believe these systems may well have been made in europe. even if developed for intelligence services, technologies proliferate very easily. they get smaller, faster and cheaper every day. imagine the non-state actors active in this unregulated market. all over the world these technologies help in violating human rights and harming our critical infrastructure and sensitive data. this billion euro market in digital arms could be the biggest boomerang we have ever seen. the irresponsible vacuums in export legislation need to be filled, and systems that facilitate mass surveillance and hacking into peoples’ devices without legal basis and without their consent should be much more closely scrutinised. we need transparency and accountability as well as licensing requirements, a level playing field and certainty for companies. i am interested to know whether the commissioner will present a positive or negative list of countries or technologies and how adjustments to crisis will be made. will you, commissioner, work with a catch-all mechanism? i think it would be a good idea. i also urge for impact assessments in the r&d phase to know earlier on what dangers systems can pose, while allowing researchers to do their work. we need future-proof and smart legislation very soon, and much more than what the council adopted on friday. waiting longer is, frankly, irresponsible and dangerous.
the eu is the largest economy in the world, yet poverty is still widespread. many europeans, even in paid employment, cannot make ends meet. poverty, including among working people, must be ended as soon as possible. and, commissioner, three questions: what is the commission's position on the proposal for a directive? what actions will you take to ensure that the social objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are aligned with the fiscal objectives, so that member states will make greater efforts to promote employment and reduce poverty? the second. the juncker commission's credo is jobs and growth, but how will you as commissioner for social affairs ensure that it is also decent jobs with a living wage and good working conditions? the third. does the commission share my view that in order to combat poverty among working people, there must be rapid and effective ... (the president cut off the speaker)
we are now four years into the europe 2020 strategy and we have unfortunately had to conclude with commissioner thyssen that in those four years we have not come any closer to our objectives, but are even further away from them. in other words: our objectives are ambitious, but our approach falls short. i see this as a great danger to the credibility of the european union as a whole. so we can do two things: we can make our goals less ambitious or our approach more ambitious. i'll go with the second option. an ambitious approach means above all that the member states must follow that ambitious approach. this means that we should not be handing over large, one-off european project grants, but that we should be working on structural reforms in the member states and that we should be guiding and promoting these reforms from europe. a second point: we must not blindly look at the number of indicators at european level. indicators are important, measurement is important, but let us also look at which policy instruments at national level lead to certain results. and let us take those results to learn from each other and work together towards our goals.
in writing. - i think that people should not be the victims of a failed european social and economic policy. that is why i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund. companies and member states should come up with appropriate support measures themselves. the european globalisation adjustment fund is just a towel to cover the bleeding and in practice means that we are siphoning off financial resources from the member states. large companies are laying off their employees after years of faithful service, moving production to places where they can find cheaper labor. i strongly condemn these practices which degrade human dignity. but with the resources of the european fund we are at least making sure that the workers who are dismissed are not left out in the cold.
in writing. - i think that people should not be the victims of a failed european social and economic policy. that is why i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund. companies and member states should come up with appropriate support measures themselves. the european globalisation adjustment fund is just a towel to cover the bleeding and in practice means that we are siphoning off financial resources from the member states. large companies are laying off their employees after years of faithful service, moving production to places where they can find cheaper labor. i strongly condemn these practices which degrade human dignity. but with the resources of the european fund we are at least making sure that the workers who are dismissed are not left out in the cold.
in writing. i abstained on paragraph 37 because low-carbon emissions do not exclude the option of nuclear energy as an alternative. in my view, nuclear energy is not a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels.
in writing. – the party for the animals is in favour of green, renewable, carbon-free energy. by not including the words ‘green’ or ‘renewable’, the ‘carbon-free strategies’ proposed in paragraph 37 could also include nuclear energy. nuclear energy is no sustainable alternative because it depends on limited resources. furthermore nuclear power plants produce extremely hazardous waste and pose a potential high environmental risk. therefore i voted against these carbon-free strategies.
in writing. i abstained on paragraph 37 because low-carbon emissions do not exclude the option of nuclear energy as an alternative. in my view, nuclear energy is not a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels.
it is now over a year since a boat carrying hundreds of immigrants sank off the coast of lampedusa. i wonder: have we learned anything? the answer is no. every week the newspapers report on immigrants who dare to cross the border and are picked up by frontex. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. because our borders are just leaking! the solutions of this parliament are more solidarity, more money and more legal routes to the european union, measures which only increase the problem. i come from the netherlands, and we currently house 29,000 asylum seekers. it is estimated that another 40,000 will be added next year. as our government cuts our country to the bone and closes nursing homes for the elderly, asylum-seeking shelters are popping up. i can't go on like this. we must stop the influx, close the borders and focus on the reception of refugees in the region. it is the only way to prevent tragedies at sea and to halt mass immigration. when are you going to do this and what has been done to provide shelter in the region?
the importance of a european asylum and migration policy was painfully underlined a year ago by the disaster at lampedusa. unfortunately, this disaster was not an accident. more than 3,000 people have drowned in the mediterranean since the beginning of the year. i therefore hope that the new commission will make the solution of this problem one of its main priorities. one year after the disaster at lampedusa, there are still no safe routes and no legal routes to the eu for asylum seekers. i am glad to hear that the commissioner is talking to the member states about increasing quotas for relocation. this is currently the only legal way to reach the eu. i also hope that an agreement can be reached soon on the issue of humanitarian visas. finally, there is a great deal of misunderstanding between the countries of southern europe and the countries of destination in western and northern europe. it is essential that this misunderstanding be cleared up so that we can finally work towards a common policy based on solidarity between all european countries.
it is good that the commission wants fewer rules for companies, but ensuring good working conditions must be paramount. i therefore hope that you will be careful in the elaboration of this new approach. a working europe is first and foremost for people, not just for companies. in addition, in recent years we have seen a surge in the creation of all kinds of new forms of work: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the same sector, regardless of their nationality. my question is: does the commission intend to take a targeted approach to ensure health and safety at work for these people too? i would also point out that there are still groups of workers who fall completely outside the strategic framework. for example, police officers and military personnel do not enjoy the same guarantees of health and safety at work. so my question is: will the commission come forward in the near future with concrete measures to provide these people, who are responsible for our safety, with the same guarantees for the protection of their work in the workplace?
i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs who have contributed to these reports for their work. the recent years have shown that inadequate supervision of banks can have disastrous consequences for the stability of financial markets and the economy as a whole. with the launch of the banking union on 4 november and the direct supervision of the main european banks by the ecb, it is of the utmost importance that the ecb can act quickly, correctly and effectively when banks break rules which could lead us back to the practices and problems of before and during the financial crisis. that is why the subjects of these two reports are so important. in preparing and assessing these reports, we have been guided by the following three considerations: first of all, the strengthening of the financial sector. adequate supervision and addressing banking abuses are necessary to restore confidence in the european banking sector, both within europe and internationally. at the same time, the financial credibility and resilience of the sector must also be strengthened. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote on the amendments to the directive. the second point is to prevent financial instability. this means that investigations into bank infringements must be initiated and completed within a reasonable time. ensuring financial stability also implies that any decisions on sanctions or fines are published at the time when the results of those investigations are final. the last point i would like to mention is the improvement of the provision of information by banks to supervisors. we must do this as effectively as possible and we support the amendments that make this possible.
let me start on the positive side: europe is going to meet its 2020 targets, but in a world where every day we emit more co2 than the day before. and 2014 will also set another record for co2 emissions. never before has the concentration of co2 been so high. we see the evidence of climate change almost every day. the first decade of this century saw three times as many natural disasters as the previous few years. that, in any case, does lead to a sense of urgency that finally seems to be growing. i therefore welcome the decision by china and the united states to take a joint approach to climate change. although the reaction on capitol hill, of course, suggests the worst. let us not underestimate the chinese promise. twenty percent zero-emission energy in 2030 means an additional 800 to 1,000 gigawatts of capacity, and that's almost all of the current electricity production in the united states. so let us not say that we in europe do a lot and the rest of the world does not. it does seem to be gaining momentum. but we must be careful, because the bottom-up approach we have adopted since the failure of copenhagen is by no means a guarantee of success. the intended nationally determined contributions - it all sounds wonderful - must not, of course, become free intentions. and it is therefore mr arias cañete's task to fight hard for that. let's be honest about the lima-paris route. even in the most optimistic lima-paris scenario, we will not do enough and we will not stay below that two-degree limit. my question to the commission is therefore: do you have a multi-track policy in addition to this un policy? should we not also, above all, discourage as much as possible investment in polluting fuels, for example through a very well-functioning fuel quality directive? i would also like to hear the commission's reaction to that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to welcome mr cañete to the plenary for his first address to the plenary, on the very important climate conference in lima. i think we can see now that the world is starting to move. we are now looking at the us and china which are doing things, and i think we have to welcome that. we have to see that this is a good step towards paris. but there are, of course, questions as to what europe is doing. we have always claimed that we are leading the world. i think that tone has become very irritating for the rest of the world, because if you really look at what the eu is doing, it is not that impressive. i think just one clear question – and i think it is important mr cañete address it – is: europe – what is europe going to do with its coal-fired power plants until 2030? we know that in the us they are going to handle them, in china they are going to handle them, but the council conclusions still give a feeling that europe might give subsidies to coal-fired power plants until 2030. it would be very important, mr cañete, for you to make it very clear here that when we are talking about funds for the modernisation of our energy system, we are not talking about subsidies for coal-fired power plants at all. i think you have to clarify that very clearly. and if we make a link to the investment plan – because everyone is making the point that this is very important – unfortunately there are not so many commissioners left any more, while we were discussing an investment plan. i think there is one important issue here: if you want to have clarity for investors, you also need to have clear policies, and one of the clearest policies you can provide investors with is a binding energy-efficiency target. that would really make it clear to investors what to do. i think that there, too, you can also provide investors with some clarity that the commission will indeed come forward with those proposals. a final remark to the council: regarding the funds, the green climate fund. is the council able, for next year, to really make sure that, on time, europe as a whole can provide money for that climate fund in a new additional way that is transparent and also predictable, so that the developing countries really know that the council of the european union is serious about climate change and helping developing countries in that?
next week, another 15,000 officials, politicians and environmentalists will go to lima. flying business class and leaving tens of thousands of tons of co2 behind. why would you do that? to put together a concept text. mr. president, you can also send an e-mail. and at least it won't cost the taxpayer 60 million. because there is good news! we can report that the north pole has grown. now nasa came out last month with the fact that the south pole has been growing by 17,000 square kilometers a year for the last 40 years. the crazy thing about good news is - when my children bring good news from school, good grades, then i'm happy, then the teachers are happy and my children are happy! when there is good news about the economy, the economists are happy, the producers and the consumers. but when there's good news about the environment, i don't hear the environmentalists. it seems that they are only benefited by bad news, for bad news makes money. the summit in lima is taking place under the worst conditions imaginable. obama can't deal with the republican majority, china and russia, we know enough about that, the eu is divided and even threw out the climate scientist glover because she didn't want to join the climate hysteria. in lima, the only change in temperature will be the heated scenes in the local brothels and the chambreling of thousands of bottles of luxury wine, which are immediately clocked away by the people who care so much about our environment. i call for a boycott of this climate summit; the money spent on this must be paid back immediately to the countries from which it comes.
in writing. - if banks do not comply with their obligations or do not report adequately to the supervisors, they must be dealt with severely by the competent national authorities. the party for the animals is opposed to the transfer of powers to the european central bank or the banking union. these are not democratic institutions; this would further limit public and democratic control over banks. the european central bank has a reputation for vagueness and lack of transparency, and the ecb's dual mandate is a dangerous mix of monetary policy and banking supervision.
mrs mogherini, i would like to put to you a fundamental problem, if i may. you spoke about the two-state solution. that does not, logically, presuppose a palestinian state alongside a jewish state. the latest palestinian side resolution of 30 september 2014, section 3a, calls for the right of self-determination of the palestinians. there's nothing wrong with that. but here it is: the palestinian authority refuses to this day to grant the same right of self-determination in return to the jewish people in the state of israel! that does not advance peace and a two-state solution. look at the debate in israel right now. my question is: how do you stand in it? five years ago i asked your predecessor, mrs ashton, that question. silent in all languages. i hope you will be more honest and ask the palestinian side the same question: "why is that? you ask for something and you give nothing back! no reciprocity, you know. finally, and this is something i really want to say, this is the third debate on the middle east. we have just had a summer of anti-semitism in the context of the gaza conflict ... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
once again, last week's horrific attack on innocent, praying citizens in the synagogue in jerusalem demonstrates the ruthless, violent character of the palestinian authority's terrorist regime. a palestinian state is no different from isis, the islamic caliphate. there is no palestinian freedom struggle. there is only violence by fatah and hamas in the name of a barbaric ideology. the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the tragedy of the palestinian people. anyone who thinks that recognition of a palestinian state will bring peace to the middle east is blind. this recognition will be celebrated by hamas and fatah as an acknowledgement of their claim to all of the holy land, as an acknowledgement of their anti-semitic goal to murder all jews in israel. let all those so-called palestinians from gaza, judea, samaria return to their homeland jordan. anyone who wants to recognize a palestinian state is exposing himself as an anti-semite. i call on the european commission to immediately stop all eu financial support to the palestinian authority, to strongly condemn recognition of a palestinian state and to fully recognise the right of the jewish people to pray on the temple mount.
worldwide, enough food is produced to feed everyone. and yet, tonight, one billion people go to bed hungry, including 250 million children. the party for the animals finds that unacceptable. however, the main causes of hunger and malnutrition remain under-reported. that is our own agricultural policy and our own consumption pattern. we can feed 10 billion people with the current area of arable land, provided we stop spending most of our grain and crops on livestock feed, on biofuel. 70% of the arable land is used to feed animals instead of people. to achieve this, brussels' agricultural policy must be radically reformed and we must stop dumping 363 billion euros of agricultural subsidies on our own farmers, we must stop dumping agricultural surpluses in developing countries. the best solution, however, is simple and inexpensive: our consumption patterns. we should eat less meat! every five seconds, a child dies of hunger. in my speaking time of one and a half minutes here, that was 18 children! that is unacceptable and we must and can do something about it. we therefore support the measures proposed by the rapporteur. we also believe that agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
author. - mr president, i appreciate very much the fact that we have this opportunity to discuss this, with the resolution, after the debate we had in the last plenary about asia bibi, because we also, like our colleagues, are deeply concerned about the controversial blasphemy laws in pakistan, blasphemy laws that are used to make freedom of expression, freedom of religion for all faiths, increasingly difficult. several wild accusations have already led to death sentences. one of the most famous, which we discussed last month, was that of asia bibi, a christian woman who was sentenced to death. we need to call strongly on the authorities of pakistan to repeal these laws, to have a thorough review and to repeal these laws. to achieve that, a strong signal from the european union is also necessary. i call on the commission and the eeas to use all the tools at their disposal to put pressure on the pakistani authorities to actually introduce some change.
the european parliament rightly calls today for attention to be paid to the blasphemy legislation, which must be repealed. and rightly so, because asia bibi has been innocently on death row for many years. she must be free! and that can be done by presidential decree or by a speedy trial before the lahore high court. we are right to be dealing with this case now, because there are hundreds of asia bibi's. the blasphemy laws are a blanket of fear throughout pakistani society and are being abused by extremists there. the blasphemy laws must be abolished. we are right to discuss this today because the laws are contrary to the human rights treaties that pakistan has signed and are contrary to the gsp+ relationship that it has with the european union. mrs malmström, the european commission must therefore examine quickly whether the commitments made under the gsp+ are justified. no business advantages when there's religious persecution.
i would like to draw your attention to three aspects of unspeakable female suffering: the first. development of psychological support programmes for the many girls and women who have been raped by isis fighters; the second. the dire emergency of more than two million widows, religious "solutions" such as "mutaa ́a" (a "temporary marriage") or polygamy really need to be fought with iraqi human rights organizations; the third. finally, a recent iraqi law that no longer applies a minimum age for marriage but does set rules for girls as young as nine (!) who want to get divorced is very disturbing. the eu has also called for action to be taken in this area, together with iraqi human rights organisations.
in writing. - derivative copyright laws for consumers in the different member states have led to a differentiation in access to content. this type of legislation is abused by digital service providers to be paid twice for the services they provide. i don't think that's right. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the digital single market.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i must say i am relieved that finally the eu can become a party to the cites conference. i witnessed myself how important this is a few years ago when i was part of parliament’s delegation to the cites conference in doha. we did not speak with one voice, we were not very united, we were more occupied by our internal negotiations as eu member states and then we made a strong position at the conference itself, so i am very relieved that we have finally become a party to cites. another thing i would like to address here – and the commissioner has already mentioned it, as have many of my colleagues – is the importance of the fight against wildlife trafficking. that is something that should be done with cites but of course, and the commission knows this, this is something that should also be done much more strongly within the eu. i therefore hope that commissioner moedas can give the message not only to his colleague responsible for the environment but also to his colleagues higher up the hierarchy in the commission that we really need an eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, and the sooner the better.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it was this weekend that i returned from lima where the climate summit took place, and i must say that i was impressed by the broadly shared determination to fight climate change. but the lima outcome also made it clear that we still have a very difficult battle against climate change ahead of us. let us face it: the world will emit more co2 tomorrow than today, and more the day after tomorrow than tomorrow. for that reason, it is crucial that public policy pushes investments towards a low-carbon economy. as regards the fuel quality directive, differentiation between different feedstocks is crucial, but the current implementing measure does not do this any more. so highly polluting nigerian crude or tar sand oils from other parts of the world are treated equally with much cleaner feedstock oils. that is against the objectives of the fuel quality directive, and for that reason i tabled – together with a few other groups – the objection. i am, therefore, extremely disappointed by the statement from the commission here today. i expected a much stronger commitment to the objectives of the fuel quality directive. i really do not understand, after seeing your 2011 proposal, how you can defend a completely contradictory proposal after the council rejected your first proposal. i really do not understand how you can defend both. it is absolutely clear that we have to steer investments, and we can only steer investments in the right direction if we encourage them in the right direction and discourage them from taking the wrong direction.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i do not think that any of us here, any of the parties that filed an objection to this proposal, are against the fuel quality directive. let me be very clear, we are strong defenders of the fuel quality directive. we think that, theoretically, this can be a very efficient tool. but that is the problem, we say theoretically, because with this proposal the commission is deliberately weakening the proposal. it is weakening the effectiveness of the proposal, and i say this also to my colleague julie girling, who is saying you can only object on legal grounds. if you read the impact assessment, with this proposal the commission is deliberately taking away one of the options to achieve the 6 % reduction. because of this proposal we can no longer differentiate between different feedstocks which is one of the three ways by which we can achieve the reduction. so this is literally taking away the efficiency of one of these measures, and that is what we are against. and this is very interesting, because if you read the impact assessment – and we are talking about better regulation, tomorrow the commission will present a programme on better regulation – the most efficient proposal should be the proposal from 2011. that is in the emissions impact assessment. so why is the commission not following its own impact assessment, not following its own proposal of 2011? has the world changed? no, if you read the impact assessment all the values are the same as in 2011. so we can only start to guess what happened, and indeed i come to the same conclusion as my colleague matthias groote. this is a consequence of the canadian lobby. probably all of you have been called or received e-mails from the canadians saying that we really should support this measure. why? because now we can no longer differentiate between the fuel types and therefore the door will be open to tar sands. and that, of course, is the biggest problem: we are defending the canadian lobby here. and let me say to the canadians, who are probably listening, this is not against canada. we just want to have differentiation between different fuel types. if the canadians can show they can produce a clean fuel type, even cleaner than just normal oil, then they should also get the credit for that. so you need differentiation between fuel stocks. if you are more polluting it should be counted as such. if you are less polluting it should be counted as such. that is what we call better regulation, and that is not in the proposal. this is really going against the core of the fuel quality directive. i agree very much with my colleague, gerben-jan gerbrandy. i was hoping that the commission would get the point, that the commission would realise that the fuel quality directive and its methodology is something that is important and should be preserved. however, the commission has only said we will review, we will organise a congress, and that is it. sorry, we really want to hear more. how is the commission going to make sure that after 2020 we will have a proposal that takes into account the differentiation between different fuel types so that the good ones are rewarded and the bad ones are not rewarded? that is what we are aiming for. and to my colleague from the epp who said that this will throw away five years’ work, i say no, it is this proposal that is doing precisely that because officially the commission is saying this methodology will end by 2020, and they are now just making an empty proposal. so if you really are concerned about the methodology then we should really fight for the proposal that was on the table in 2011 which does differentiate between different fuel types and which is even supported by epure – not always my friends when they do their biofuel lobbying, but they also see that they are no longer being rewarded and are therefore saying that this time they agree to us objecting to the proposal. and i think that is also important for my christian democrat colleagues. so therefore we object, and unfortunately, commission, you do not allow us to do anything other than to vote against this proposal, to object to this proposal, with pain in our hearts.
president. - i too would like to welcome the new commissioner, mrs bulc, to the plenary session of the european parliament. good luck and a pleasant cooperation in the years to come! we are discussing here today a list of serious violations in the transport sector. we all know that transport is a vital part of the european economy and we want to work with the juncker commission to improve the transport sector, make it fairer, ensure good competition, but also good social conditions for the workers. our group has come to the conclusion that this list is vague and incomplete. that's actually the main objection. the list is a good start in itself, but in the current economic conditions it is unclear and incomplete. this applies to both employers and employees. if employers do not comply with this list, they may lose their reputation as a reliable transport company. so those employers do have something to lose. and it must be clear to employers what they do and do not have to adhere to. the same applies to the employees. of course, there is a social aspect to this list. there are several elements of european transport policy which are not clear to workers at the moment: elements like reward, security, and you name it. so we want a new list. and i understand very well what the commissioner is saying - and what mrs meissner is also saying - that we are now delaying, creating confusion. but if the commissioner starts a new list early next year, we can re-approve it here before the summer recess and then everyone will know where he or she is. there is another element. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know that one of the great problems in european law at the moment is: "can we also maintain the matters we agree on here?" so, thanks for the heads-up. the list is not exhaustive, either for employers or for employees. please come up with a new list quickly so we can help the transport industry further.
president. - i too would like to congratulate the new commissioner. it is a newcomer, because parliament is rightly objecting to what is now being put forward by the commission. what is this about? the point is that a road haulage operator can lose his licence if he commits a serious offence. in my view, the list of serious infringements includes tackling unfair competition and social dumping. unfortunately, the commission does not think so. but the systematic abuse of the cabotage regulation and the posting directive is damaging european road transport. so it's really important that europe addresses that. for example, we could move towards a system where we make a real link between the usual place of work of an employee and the law applicable to his employment contract. of course we have to go for it. mrs. bulc, it's crucial that you consider that. i have also learned something from this whole process, namely that we should not deal with important matters of this kind through a comitology procedure, but through the normal regular legislative procedure. it's far too important for that. so, commissioner, we will not support you but we assume that the broad call of this debate to tackle social dumping and unfair competition is crystal clear to you.
mr president, in the netherlands we often say: "without transport, everything is at a standstill". today we can truly say: 'with the epp, s&d and a number of other parties, the transport sector in europe is at a standstill'. and that's a sad thing to see. is the european commission's proposal, in my opinion, perfect? my answer to that is no. it does not cover all possible infringements that carriers may commit and which would jeopardise their good repute. but this proposal does offer a very good first step in tackling the rogue transporters. we often draw up european rules in this house and then think that this level the playing field in europe. but that level playing field very often only comes about when the rules are actually implemented, enforced and sanctioned throughout europe. the commission proposal now threatens to be rejected. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. this brings me to a final point which is also closely related to this. the minimum wage is to be introduced in germany on 1 january 2015. this creates a lot of uncertainty for the european transport sector. international transport companies are very keen to have that clarity and my question to the european commission is that if transport companies actually complied with the rules, they would not be faced with all kinds of administrative hassle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the six- and two-pack programmes. these are the two sets of measures introduced in recent years to extend and strengthen the stability and growth pact. the commission's evaluation of this is full of fine analyses but avoids the main point of discussion, namely whether and how much flexibility can be applied in maintaining budgetary rules. the commission has indicated that it will take a position on this in january. so today i can only rely on the omens of the past few weeks. and those omens are anything but good. president juncker himself said last week in a french newspaper that this commission sees the maintenance of budgetary rules as a political decision. the additional delay given to france last month to get its budget in order once again shows where this institution can lead. the french deferral is in fact contrary to the agreements which were agreed less than two years ago, less than a year ago, in the two packages we are debating today, the six-pack and the two-pack. in its own evaluation of these packages, the commission indicates that additional deferral is only allowed when a country has made good progress with reforms but is facing an unexpected economic setback. however, in its assessment of the french budget for 2015 at the end of last month, the commission makes it clear that france has done far too little to put the budget and the economy in order and to reform. so this delay was - as the commission itself indicates - not based on the budgetary agreements we have made with each other in the euro zone. the decision to postpone the vote is a political slap in the face. the first ten years of the euro have shown what happens when the rules of the stability and growth pact become a political game. what is needed in the budgetary rules is not 'more politics' or 'more discretion' or 'more flexibility'. instead, the new investment plan should be used as a back door to tighten the rules. only those countries that adhere to the stability and growth pact and only those countries that have implemented a majority of the country-specific recommendations should have access to the investment money of that plan. this means that countries are not only punished if they do not comply with the rules, but also rewarded with additional investment if they do. that is fair, efficient and clear and we are strengthening the budgetary rules, the european economy and confidence in the european union.
president, i also thank the vice-president of the european commission for his explanation of the matter this morning. it has already been criticised for the fact that the document we are talking about is short and factual. i congratulate him on that, because i think his analysis is very clear: either 'the six-pack and two-pack rules have worked', or 'we haven't had enough time to assess them in practice'. i 'll say: "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". that's what they say. we have drawn up these regulations in the previous period when the euro was hanging over the precipice. i think that this european parliament can be proud that we had the courage to take those steps back then. because if we had had the macroeconomic imbalance procedure, for example, from the very beginning of the euro - which is about imbalances in member states, let us be clear about that for a moment - then we might have been able to avoid the dramatic situations that we have seen arise in a number of member states. but what i think is most important is that we can talk about a text at this moment. the text is clear, but let us also look at the practical aspects. the british have a wonderful saying: 'the proof of the pudding is in the eating'. we can talk about a text, but at the same time, if the rules we are discussing here are already being drawn up in practice, then we are already in fact removing the foundations underlying this healthy euro. so the epp will also assess this commission on whether it is also keeping the agreements we made last term, which i believe were justified, with a number of member states. i will not name names, but we all know which country is the elephant in this conference room. the proof of the pudding is in the eating. do not just talk about the text, but show in practice that you support it. we shall judge the commission on that basis. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. yeah, it took a while for the question to come. it was more of an explanation. if he does not believe me, let me refer to the words of mr draghi. he says that if you want to be part of that euro, there are a number of agreements that go along with it. not because we want to be so mean or because we are number fetishists, but because those rules are the anchor of trust in our whole economy and the foundation underneath that euro. so if you say a, you have to say b. if you want to be in the euro, you have to keep your promises. it's as simple as that. and of course you look at the implications of that. but if you say "a", you have to say "b". one cannot exist without the other.
the six-pack and two-pack review comes at a politically sensitive time. the european community is not a mere institution, but a political one. 1) france, italy and belgium have structural problems with their public finances. unfortunately, the implementation of the agreed criteria is being delayed for political reasons. this inaccuracy further undermines the credibility of the euro area governance. 2) there are still countries in the eurozone and in the monetary union which do not really fit in. the recent desperate attempt by mr samaras and mr venizelos to call for early elections shows that a country like greece would be better off outside the euro zone. then the country with its own currency can devalue and, in combination with a partial debt write-off, really build with hope for the future. the country's current debt burden in the eurozone is heavier than the vault that titan's son atlas had to carry. i'm afraid the political elite here won't listen to my advice. the result is that we will be stuck with very high unemployment for many years to come, and that european economies outside the eurozone will perform much better, as they are doing now.
what if: it's bad weather, it's windy, the rain comes pouring from the sky and occasionally there's a flash of lightning from dark clouds. would you expect the plane to land on autopilot? no, of course not. and the european economy is still in bad shape. inflation is too low for households burdened with debt, unemployment is too high, growth is low and confidence is shaky. the commission has carried out a mid-term review of the budgetary rules in the two- and six-pack, but it is operating on automatic pilot. the bad weather for the european economy is not taken into account, let alone the question of whether the budgetary rules are appropriate in these bad weather conditions. and then one specific point. in the budgetary framework, the structural deficit is a very important concept. it's a great concept in theory, but a lousy one in practice. it's like flying with a broken altimeter. research shows that different institutions, the imf, the oecd and the european commission, give different estimates of the structural deficit and that over the course of the year the estimate can change considerably. this is contrary to the importance now attached to this concept and does not ensure a soft landing of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that people should not be the victims of a failed european socioeconomic policy. that is why i voted for the european globalisation adjustment fund, but i think it is a bloodbath. i think that the companies and the member states themselves should come up with appropriate support measures, because now they are simply pumping money from the member states around. large companies are laying off their employees after years of faithful service, moving production to places where they can find cheaper labor. i condemn these degrading practices in the strongest possible terms and with the resources of the european fund we will at least ensure that the workers who are dismissed are not left in the cold.
in writing. ‒ i believe that people should not be the victims of a failed european socioeconomic policy. that is why i voted for the european globalisation adjustment fund, but i think it is a bloodbath. i think that the companies and the member states themselves should come up with appropriate support measures, because now they are simply pumping money from the member states around. large car manufacturers like fiat are putting their workers on the streets after years of faithful service, because they are moving production to places where they can find cheaper labor. i condemn these degrading practices in the strongest possible terms and with the resources of the european fund we will at least ensure that the workers who are dismissed are not left in the cold.
in writing. ‒ i believe that people should not be the victims of a failed european socioeconomic policy. that is why i voted for the european globalisation adjustment fund, but i think it is a bloodbath. i think that the companies and the member states themselves should come up with appropriate support measures, because now they are simply pumping money from the member states around. large companies are laying off their employees after years of faithful service, moving production to places where they can find cheaper labor. i condemn these degrading practices in the strongest possible terms and with the resources of the european fund we will at least ensure that the workers who are dismissed are not left in the cold.
in writing. ‒ i believe that people should not be the victims of a failed european socioeconomic policy. that is why i voted here reluctantly for the european globalisation adjustment fund to be made available, but i think this is a bloodbath. i think that the companies and the member states themselves should come up with appropriate support measures, because now they are simply pumping money from the member states around. large companies like air france are putting their employees on the street after years of faithful service, because they are moving their production to places where they can find cheaper labor. i condemn these degrading practices in the strongest possible terms and with the resources of the european fund we will at least ensure that the workers who are dismissed are not left in the cold. i would like to stress that the globalisation fund is not intended to pay employees, this is the responsibility of air france itself. nor should the eu take over the role of providing social security for the member states, which is not what the globalisation fund is for.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, let me also congratulate president juncker on behalf of the alde group. first of all, we are talking better lawmaking today and in my view that would also mean transparency and indeed involving parliament, but to my knowledge we are having a debate today on the basis of a document that was leaked to the press. i find that an unusual procedure. alde naturally supports efforts to slim down and simplify eu legislation, but we believe in smart trimming, not in taking a blunt axe to the trunk of the tree. the commission should not throw the baby out with the bathwater by arbitrarily scrapping laws. the commission should respect the democratic policymaking process and not pick and choose. no one can be opposed to eliminating unnecessary regulation, but what one person considers unnecessary may be considered essential by someone else. the commission wants to concentrate on the big themes and alde, of course, fully supports that. now alde considers equal treatment a big theme, but in the commission’s logic the blocked anti-discrimination directive is unnecessary red tape. alde considers transparency a big theme, but in the commission’s own logic the access to documents law, blocked by the commission and the council, should be scrapped. alde considers sustainability a big theme, but the commission’s red-tape slayer wants to withdraw the proposals for waste and air quality. alde also considers upholding democratic values and the rule of law a big theme, and unfortunately in many member states it is a very topical issue these days, but the commission proposes no instrument. democracy and the rule of law are also necessary. conversely parliament rejected the proposal for an eu pnr scheme but the commission keeps pushing for it without any proper justification or evidence for its necessity. in our view the commission should focus on improving the process rather than ignoring the outcome of democratic decision. alde strongly objects to the withdrawal of files only and exclusively because the member states failed to take responsibility and the council is paralysed. if that were the rule, many good laws making the lives of eu citizens better would not have existed today. there would be no banking union, no european patents, no standards for the health and safety of workers in the internal market, no common asylum rules. scrapping or simplifying certain laws may be useful, but how will the commission tackle goldplating by member states, a major cause of excessive red tape? how will the commission ensure better implementation of eu laws by member states, and will the commission finally introduce a sunset clause in all legislative proposals. last but not least, will the commission drastically raise the standards of transparency and access to documents so as to allow for full accountability and public scrutiny, which in my view is key to better lawmaking? at his confirmation hearing vice-president timmermans said that this commission is born in the european parliament, so we expect the new commission to work in tandem with this house to reduce the regulatory burden but also to ensure a democratic and transparent legislative process.
president, for a good football game of course you need a level playing field. the commission is keen to be political and ambitious, and i welcome that, because it is very necessary to seize this last chance for europe. the question is whether the work programme for 2015 reflects that ambition. i would therefore ask the commission to pay attention to three points. first, 'better regulation' should not be reduced to a discussion of rules. better regulation means for me and for us a better europe, a europe that is understandable to everyone. environmental legislation is needed for a shift to a sustainable economy and that is in everyone's interest. i am also pleased to hear that we can expect new proposals for air quality and the circular economy later this year. secondly, luxleaks has shown that there is something terribly wrong with the corporate tax system in europe. the commission's plan of attack is now being called for, with more openness through country-by-country reporting, through a blacklist for companies and through more regulation to eliminate unilateral tax structures. thirdly, jean-claude juncker has promised us a europe that is triple a in the social field. this cannot be done without the complete revision of the posting of workers directive and this essential point is still missing from the 2015 work programme ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the colleagues in this parliament for their great joint efforts, which have also led to a solution. because this year, too, the weather was endlessly icy and that happens year after year. this has a lot to do with the attitude of the member states, which say one thing and do another. we'll reach an agreement this week, but not a solution. to this end, as agreed in the joint declarations, the commission must identify ways of reducing the pool of accounts. we must also move towards a new budgetary system which prevents member states from saying one thing and doing another. because it's like a pyramid scheme now, and that's not sustainable. universities, businesses and other organizations are not getting their bills paid on time. in the netherlands, the labour party has therefore set up an online counter to report late payments, but the real action must come from the member states.
president, it has been said many times this afternoon, but i would like to congratulate the commissioner, and also parliament and the council, on the agreement reached on the 2015 budget. you're new and all this big work. congratulations to you! i'm having more trouble with the 2014 budget adjustments. the third budgetary adjustment is a clear sign of tension between the payments to be made, including to research institutes, and the use of the budgetary space already available in the coming years and even the introduction of new funds. but that is the strain of this budgetary adjustment and we will have to live with it. the following budgetary adjustment no 6 for 2014: i would like to ask you to give me the opportunity to improve the communication on the levies imposed on the countries next time. the european union has not become more popular because the commission has introduced so many additional levies just before 1 november. that has hurt in many countries, that has done our name no good and we really need to prevent that in the future. thank you and happy holidays!
the hostage situation in sydney by a supporter of the islamic state proves once again how topical the subject of security is. if we continue to look the other way and run away from the problem called 'islam', then the question is not whether this will happen in the european union but when it will happen again in amsterdam, berlin or london. and it's not just the returning jihadists or the supporters of the islamic state who pose a threat to our security. the biggest danger is the naivete, the structural denial of the dangers we face by the politically correct elite. the motion for a resolution before us today is a farce. i have three specific questions to put to the european commission. how many jihadists have left the european union to fight for the islamic state? how many jihadists have returned to european soil? and when are you going to acknowledge that islam is the biggest problem for our security? i'm going round. security is a national issue, but as long as the politically correct elite does not get its head out of the sand, the european union will not become more secure. the solutions are simple. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to do so.
mr juncker is coming up with a plan to boost eu growth. this plan means that the netherlands will have to steal another 8 billion from its own citizens to put into a structural fund. no doubt, then, airports are being built for which no dog comes, noise barriers are being placed along roads through uninhabited areas and absurd energy projects are being paid for. is mr juncker going to make shady backroom deals for this, as he did when he was prime minister of luxembourg? the initial 21 billion in eu and ecb contributions is to be increased to over 300 billion, mainly from the private sector. are there any good business benefits here, mr juncker? the commission still believes in the fata morgana of a great european empire, but the economic differences between the eu member states are too great. the price for this empire is paid by the citizens in the form of harsh austerity, staggering taxes, declining prosperity and rising unemployment. instead of a foolish growth plan, mr juncker should advocate in the european council the break-up of the eu and the euro. we must restore national sovereignty so that each member state can become prosperous again, can again have its own currency that fits its own economy, can again close its borders. then member states can keep out unwanted immigrants who cost billions a year and jihadists who threaten our security. mr juncker should ensure that, or he will have to resign.
the investment plan of the juncker commission is a game changer. but it is even more a change in political thinking than for the european economy. i see the investment plan as an extreme attempt by the commission to free up resources within the limited budget. but i see it above all as an invitation to the member states, to the council, to contribute further to the investment impulse. what we are asking from member states now is not just pretty words to support the plan, but also action. it requires a mutual effort. we ask countries with the financial room to contribute, and those with less financial room to make the effort to reform. and just so we 're clear , the budgetary rules should not prevent this, but rather promote it. only then will there be a much-needed boost to private and public investment. only then will there be a change for the european economy and for europeans.
in writing. the association agreement concluded between the eu and the republic of moldova in november 2014 has led to further tensions in the region. in response, russia announced a ban on imports of products from moldova. the european union is seeking to limit the impact on the agricultural sector by introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. but in my view this is not aid but a reckless retaliation against russia. the intensification of trade relations with moldova - and thus the increase in european influence in the region - has major geopolitical consequences. this proposal has been made carelessly and hastily and will further increase the conflict between the european union and russia. international security, human rights and democracy are always more important than short-sighted trade policy. that is why i voted against the association agreement in november and against the introduction of autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova today.
the european union has already concluded free trade agreements with colombia and peru, ecuador's neighbours. this has led to a deterioration in ecuador's trading position. by granting ecuador special tariff treatment, europe is seeking to limit the damage to ecuador. but the free trade agreements that europe is concluding cannot count on my support. this puts pressure on european production and safety standards, which may mean, among other things, a lowering of european standards for the environment and animal welfare. the current proposal also gives the european commission more power and reduces the influence of parliament and the member states. while i regret that ecuador is being the victim of unfair trade relations between europe and colombia/peru, i do not want a short-term solution in the form of tariff treatment for products from ecuador, when the consequences for animals, nature and the environment are not to be anticipated.
in writing. member states have moderated the increase in the eu budget for 2015. right, but the agreement still implies an excessive increase of over 1.8 percent over the 2014 budget, far above the low inflation. i cannot therefore support the budget. the negotiations were dominated by arrears in payments. it is necessary to address this. companies, research institutes and other beneficiaries must not fall victim to the eu's poor method of justification. europe promises more than it can deliver. it is planning too many financial commitments each year, which means that payments, with more realism, have to be made late, with a shortfall in funds when it comes to disbursements. only a reduction in financial commitments would really solve the problem of late payments. the european parliament, however, wants to commit and disburse more each year. it therefore has a great responsibility in this. the european parliament itself is responsible for the unrealistically high number of financial commitments which are not paid. whoever wants the bottom of the can gets the lid on their nose. parliament has not learned from this year, so the budget will increase again next year!
in writing. party for the animals opts for a two-state solution in the israeli-palestinian conflict both the palestinian and israeli states deserve recognition. we condemn any action by any party that could undermine the viability of and the prospects for a two-state solution and a lasting, just peace. the party for the animals rejects all forms of violence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in human beings. we will assess proposals for the recognition of palestine on the basis of these principles. that is why i voted for the resolution recognizing palestine as a state.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like this opportunity to thank senator feinstein for her perseverance and for seeing this report through before the change in the senate. i think this reminds us – and i think ms hohlmeier said it very rightly – that what sets a democracy apart from a dictatorship is accountability and moral authority. none of us around the world are immune to these tendencies. we all have this kind of violence in us, but what makes us different is that we have accountability and there is no impunity in a democracy. therefore i am very pleased to hear all colleagues from all political groups insisting on accountability and on the need for europe to come clean with regard to its role in this whole cia programme, because we can point at the americans, but europe has supported the cia counter-terrorism programme – all aspects of it. i am glad that poland finally made an admission, but let us not forget that there are a number of member states that are close allies of the us – the five eyes and the nine eyes – and this parliament has expressed itself several times. therefore i am actually shocked to hear the commonplaces uttered by the italian presidency. italy is the one country that has actually prosecuted cia agents. you have convicted 24 cia agents. will italy, will the italian presidency, insist on extradition by the united states and bring those people to trial, just as everyone else who is responsible for torture should be brought to trial? no, mr obama, we cannot draw a line under this until those responsible have been brought to justice. that is why we are a democracy and the others are not. i have another question: i read a statement in the press by the head of intcen, the intelligence centre which is a kind of vague, unclear, embryonic european union secret service. he said there is no way of knowing whether the intelligence that intcen receives was obtained through torture. excuse me? this is an eu body paid for by eu money, processing information that may have been obtained from third countries, processing information that may have been obtained from torture? well maybe he does not, but then we should know; we should finally get answers on the nature and the activities of intcen; answers we have asked for many times. we should have proper oversight over intcen. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i very much agree with you, it is not enough for the council – and that is not just the italian minister, that is all the member state governments – to make statements about the rule of law and human rights and all the conventions that they are bound to and the laws that we have. we had laws back then, but they were not respected. it is not good enough. those who break the law, even if they are governments, should be brought to justice. so yes, i very much agree with you.
mr president, i shall stick to the subject: "torture by the cia". the feinstein report is also a wake-up call for the european union. and i am happy about that, because the green group has been trying for the last few months to get the report that was made earlier in this house on the cia extradition flights back on the agenda. these are european countries that have been knowingly involved in the abduction of people and the interrogation of people in any way, not necessarily on american soil. somehow, the interest had waned. "sand over it", was my sentiment in that debate. but i understand this debate here today as a new beginning of an inquiry by the european parliament into the involvement of european countries in cia torture.
blue-card question. – i am glad that mr brok condemns the use of terror under any circumstances. even if it was understandable, if it was the circumstances, etc., is it not true, mr brok, that many years have passed when people should have been brought to justice and when there should have been accountability, but every single opportunity was missed until today? incidentally, when it comes to justice, the americans did manage to lock up the people who actually disclosed the scandals – for example mr john kiriakou, a former cia employee who spent time in prison – rather than the people responsible for terror. do you not agree that there was plenty of time to repair the mistakes that were made?
president, the us senate report has shown that prisoners have been tortured on a large scale by the cia in the post-9/11 period. of course, these suspicions have always existed, but now they have been proved beyond doubt. and while this has raised a lot of dust on the other side of the ocean, here in europe it is eerily quiet. the report does not explicitly refer to it, but it is no secret that european member states have been involved in these practices. this parliament, together with the council of europe, played a crucial role a few years ago in bringing to light the evidence that unfortunately our governments were also involved in illegal transfers, in making european airports available for torture flights and even in taking illegal detention centres into european territory. the same european union which rightly promotes the rule of law and fundamental rights as a crucial part of our community of values has itself been complicit in gross human rights violations during the heyday of the fight against international terrorism. the report calls on the us government to deal with the past and to learn lessons for the future. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the european member states the same thing. it's really time to get some clarity about the cia's cooperation. moreover, it is crucial for the eu's credibility as a champion of global human rights that we clear up this dark page in our recent history. i therefore also call on the commission to open an inquiry into violations of international law on european soil as a result of cooperation with the us intelligence services. the european parliament has called for this on several occasions, but it has been refused each time. the fact is that in a democracy, governments have to be held accountable.
mr. speaker, the senate select committee on intelligence report is a terrible summary of what the cia did to its 119 prisoners between 2001 and 2009. some of the most horrific examples have been mentioned here today, from waterboarding to sleep deprivation for 180 hours and rectal food ingestion. we are rightly appalled by this today. there are actually no words to express our horror, but we try. at the same time, many colleagues have rightly pointed out that it is a very important step for this senate committee to publish this report, a very important first step towards transparency and self-reflection. this self-reflection is essential if we are to prevent such excesses in the future. it would therefore be good if the full report of the senate committee were available soon. i also call on the eu countries to take steps in the field of transparency and self-reflection to provide such guarantees in europe as well. it is also interesting to note that this report only deals with the 119 prisoners who were tortured in the so-called black sites. what about the tens of thousands of prisoners who have been held in countries such as afghanistan or iraq and have been subjected to the same treatment? it would be good if we could also get more information and more transparency on that. finally, one last point. we live in times of unprecedented and unknown threats, and intelligence services are important to ensure our safety and the safety of our citizens. but we can never subordinate human rights to that important work. so let's not get bogged down in a debate that dick cheney and the cia might like to have about the effectiveness of torture. torture is unacceptable.
mr president, this concerns the agenda because we asked the council to make a statement about the matter that we have been discussing here all afternoon. i note that neither in its introduction, nor in its concluding remarks, has the council said anything about its role. so i consider there has not been a statement from the council about when they discussed the cia strategy at the time and discussed supporting it. so i consider that the council was not here, has not responded and did not make a statement.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, at the core of the accession process is the respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. free and pluralistic media are an essential component of any democracy. i am therefore deeply concerned about what happened last sunday when media outlets were raided by the turkish police and critical journalists were arrested. at times when turkey was already coming in for criticism about press freedom and judicial independence, this counts as another blow. should the detainees be charged with alleged wrongdoings, we expect that a due process will be conducted whereby the principle of presumption of innocence will prevail, and an independent, transparent investigation will be conducted. last week i visited turkey as the european parliament’s rapporteur. there was a clear understanding from the side of the government that further reforms are needed. therefore i welcomed the statement by the government that the eu accession process, further democratisation and the kurdish settlement process are its first priorities. the fact that we are concerned about the deteriorating situation of fundamental rights and the rule of law in the country actually shows our commitment to the accession process. but in the end it is the turkish government which sits behind the steering wheel. the events of 14 december caused serious concerns in the eu about turkish willingness to make progress in the field of democratic reforms. in the weeks to come, therefore, it is up to ankara to convince us that it is still truly committed to moving closer to the eu and its core values. the accession process is a unique opportunity for turkey to develop a strong pluralistic democratic system with solid institutions for the benefit of all citizens of turkey. however, a crackdown on critical media is moving turkey further away from these core european values, and that is bad news for anyone who is a friend of turkey.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, our dream of a european turkey has turned into a nightmare and it is time for a wake-up call. i was among those critical friends of turkey who argued that an ongoing membership process helps reforms, but reality suggests the opposite. last weekend’s arrest of journalists is part of a trend of government-led breaches of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in turkey. only a week after a high-level eu delegation visited ankara, relations have now hit another low point. there was reason for concern before. after corruption allegations included erdoğan – then prime minister, now president – and key members of his cabinet, hundreds of police officers and prosecutors were relocated and threatened with prosecution. those threats have now materialised and are also being used on journalists, while turkey already held the world record for imprisoned journalists. the obvious question is why the eu would act firmly only now. it comes down to our fears of turkey sliding ever further away from democracy if the negotiations were to stop. yet too many watershed moments have passed without serious criticism from europe, from the banning of an unpublished book by ahmet şik to mass arrests and trials without due process. the witch-hunt of gülen supporters is only the latest in a long list of rule of law violations. members of the fethullah gülen hizmet movement and the akp have created monsters together by helping each other in a coalition that long turned against everything on their combined path. now they are turning against each other, leading to even more violations of the rule of law. today there are masses of people in turkey who live in fear for their future – women, academics, artists, business leaders and, frankly, anyone who is critical of the government. losing a job or a licence, receiving a tax fine or even being prosecuted for attempting to overthrow the government have become common tools to punish opponents, while laws were passed placing members of the security establishment and government officials above those laws. it is time to tell the akp government that it is not business as usual. europe has to show that there is an end to the violations of the rule of law.
president, a country which imprisons journalists in this way and on this scale has no place in the european union. we all agree on that. it is indeed very remarkable that turkey is the only candidate country in the history of the european union that is not making progress but is falling behind in its approach to the copenhagen criteria and the values on which the eu is built. and that is also new for the european union. we have to ask ourselves how we should respond to that. we must of course condemn these actions in the resolution of january. but we must also ask ourselves whether we can justify leaving it to words alone. the dutch parliament this morning called on the european council to freeze or reduce pre-accession funds. but i also agree with mr pabriks that it would be important to use these pre-accession funds more effectively to provide extra support for civil society and the liberal forces in turkish society. so my question to the european council is: do you see any possibility of using these pre-accession funds to send a strong signal to turkey and at the same time to give an extra heart to the people in turkey who believe in europe and in european values?
i would like to express my full support for the approval of the association agreement with georgia. it is a logical and necessary step towards the economic, social and political reforms that the georgian people are clearly demanding. this is not the end, but the beginning of further cooperation with the eu. i therefore call for swift ratification by the member states so that deeper political cooperation and economic integration can be translated into action. this underlines the seriousness of the involvement of the european member states and also that the expectations of reform are not just on paper. the agreement anchors georgia's european course in terms of shared values. a pluriform political order, responsible governance, an independent judiciary and protection of fundamental rights. there is a government that is willing to work hard for a prosperous future. it is therefore their task to prevent polarization. civil society also plays an important role in this, both in supporting and in monitoring the necessary reforms. finally, i would like to express my concern about the recent integration agreement between russia and abkhazia, which may be followed by an agreement with south ossetia. the growing influence of russia in the border conflicts is a reality that we can no longer turn a blind eye to. it is therefore a good thing that the eu observation mission in georgia will be extended for two years.
president. - the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in natural gas. but what does this global issue of the first order have to do with our current debate on eu-georgia relations? let me be brief and clear in my answer: the activities of allegedly hundreds of iranian companies on georgian territory point to illegal acts that directly undermine the international sanctions regime against tehran and strengthen iran's controversial nuclear programme. my simple but urgent question to the commission is: what steps is the eu taking in close cooperation with the georgian authorities against these continued iranian nuclear proliferation efforts? how else will brussels keep up the pressure on tehran in the last crucial phase of the negotiations?
president. - that must have been a separate meeting, back in rome, with representatives of sudan and south sudan, egypt, ethiopia and eritrea. i don't see libya on the list, and i think that's because, by god, we don't know who we should ask in libya to represent a government. i remember debates in this house a few years ago about the deal that the italian government had made with libya so that libya would take in the migrants. and i remember the moment when mrs malmström, mr avramopoulos' predecessor, had to go to libya to ensure that 250 eritreans who had been sent back from europe (italy) to libya would not be sent back to eritrea, because that would be their death. we have sat here at the table to talk about "how do you keep your migrants at home?" with regimes that kill people! because that's what it comes down to. and we want to give those regimes that are killing people a hand by giving official development cooperation money. it is not just the name of the khartoum process, although i do wonder how you can start that process in the capital of sudan. i am concerned about the reprehensibility of this proposal and the way in which europe is packaging the return of migrants as development aid with dictatorial regimes.
the need to tackle the migration problem in a structural way, mr president, should be clear to us by now. as part of a holistic approach to migration, as we voted this morning in our resolution, we also need to integrate more closely the internal and external policies of the european union. it is good that the commissioner is also looking beyond the borders of europe to seek cooperation with third countries. but if you look at the map of africa and the countries that are participating in the khartoum process, there is a white spot between tunisia and egypt and that is libya. libya is not participating in the rome declaration in the framework of the rabat process. but libya is the main country of origin for people who want to cross the mediterranean and i wonder how we can make a european policy in this area without taking into account in any way what is happening in libya. how are you going to solve this, including in the context of the khartoum process?
mr president, a great deal can be said in just one sentence. the united democratic opposition in venezuela did that less than a week ago. her position is: the regime in our country can claim to have democratized impunity. that is a huge judgment. the venezuelan opposition deserves our full support in its legitimate quest for a democratic state of law in its own country. meanwhile, the maduro regime is distinguishing itself in a very different way, in a purely negative sense. the jewish community in venezuela is currently reduced to only 7 000 members, partly because of the brutal anti-semitism of the regime. increasingly, a situation of anti-semitism without jews is emerging in venezuela. what the left has to say about that, i'd like to hear.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the following persons are hereby appointed to the post of deputy head of mission: we also stood here before the summer holidays to call attention to a woman in prison with a child in sudan. we can keep doing this over and over again. what we know for certain is that the regime in sudan has no respect for human rights. mr amin mekki medani was arrested in khartoum, the capital of sudan, after returning from an activity abroad. he had signed a resolution calling for democracy in sudan and for the opposition to unite for elections in the spring. the same opposition has already said that the elections in the spring, in april 2015, cannot be trusted in this way. i find it very difficult to see how in a country like sudan everything goes wrong again and again and how the incentives that come are suppressed by the government. last night we were here talking about the khartoum process, a process whereby the european member states have reached an agreement with the north african countries to keep migrants in africa. that agreement was concluded with, among others, sudan. in the light of the arrest of these three human rights activists, it seems to me a terrible shame that we should be getting involved with a country like sudan and thus putting their people in an even more dangerous situation simply because they can no longer flee.
