you guys! it is japan, in terms of the objective function of low co2 emissions and low fuel consumption, that beats european automotive companies, which are low-profit and lack the economic incentive to innovate. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. these companies, as you can see, are reluctant to use the money they have accumulated for real innovation investments. and yet the potential for innovation in the area we're talking about is very significant. this is particularly the case with respect to the achievements of materials engineering in reducing the weight of vehicles. unfortunately, many patented inventions are watertight. the world is eagerly awaiting the automotive revolution. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the internal market rules and if it is granted in accordance with the internal market rules. there can be no forcing of derogations in this respect, as we have seen recently. it's a requirement of fair competition. i believe that it is entirely realistic to change the utility parameter of small vans from based on the known linear co2 function in mass, i.e. the target for 2020 to reduce their mass by around 300 kg and, in the long term, to reduce emissions in the following years. this depends, of course, on our already known achievements, but, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in order to achieve this, europe needs a sound and coherent and comprehensive industrial policy.
mr. chairman, please! in the present report, we all agree that the political and financial conditions at member state level have changed significantly from what prevailed at the time when the european ccs strategy was formulated. the lack of interest in developing commercial ccs projects in the european union is mainly due to the prohibitive investment costs and the lack of guarantees of profitability. if we want to develop ccs or ccu installations by 2020, it is necessary first of all to urgently complete several eu demonstration projects that could demonstrate the actual technical and economic feasibility of such investments. this would in fact be a test of the efficiency and safety of the different carbon capture and storage options. to this end, it is necessary to strengthen the instrument for supporting these projects at union level so that they are real incentives for business to engage in cooperation with scientific centres. i would like the european union's expectations for the viability of ccs by 2035 to become a fact, not just another promise.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today we have the opportunity to talk about a very important issue that affects the whole world. you could say that we're dealing with crime and smuggling now, which is very common and has increased recently, and smuggling is a reaction of people who are insensitive to the fact that we could lose very valuable species of both flora and fauna. we're talking about a threat from international gangs. these are no longer just individual groups looking to get rich, but international gangs that are pursuing a policy of exterminating wildlife. it can threaten entire ecosystems, which means we're only dealing with a small layer of crime, and yet it's global crime. this is particularly important because the detection rate of these crimes is significantly low, and the penalties are low and have no effect. we are talking about the need for cooperation between our countries, which is being led by interpol, but i think that is not enough at the moment. not only is the document itself of great educational value, but we ourselves should now turn to the famous people. ladies and gentlemen! after all, all these parts of animals are used to make all kinds of accessories: handbags, belts, ornaments used mostly by rich and famous people, who show that they have one unique thing, made in a special way, from these parts of animals. we need to appeal to them first, to show that their behavior is against ecodesign. we all talk about living in harmony with nature, but we are the ones who are deliberately destroying it. celebrities should know that such acts are unacceptable, inappropriate in their environment and that we should fight such behavior, not just apply penalties and appropriate laws.
mr. chairman, please! i am speaking again about bulgaria, but in the wrong context. there is evidence of manipulation of democracy and its processes in bulgaria. in 2009, ataka's party list mp candidates signed pledges that were later used as collateral for loans. 17 of those people became mps. they feel that they have been misled. each of them became a guarantor for a loan of €150,000. the party leadership and the chairman assured them that they would sign a declaration or loyalty agreement. volodymyr siderov, who is still a member of parliament and maintains the current corrupt government, was the chairman. this manipulation of democracy is a special kind of manipulation. it is manifested by the beating of a passenger and a policeman at the airport in varna and a conflict with a representative of a foreign embassy. unfortunately, the bulgarian state is not taking any steps. i expect that we can do something to stop bulgaria from becoming a state of lawlessness, impunity and political influence trading. thank you very much, and i'm sorry for the long speech.
on 18 december, as a result of the restructuring, the shares of the slovenian bank nova kbm, including those listed on the warsaw stock exchange, were cancelled by less than 3 million out of 139 million shares. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. however, neither in the prospectus nor in the annual reports did the bank disclose its difficult financial situation. so the risk of bankruptcy was a big surprise to investors. even more surprising was the decision to effectively expropriate the shareholders and renationalize the bank. this seems to be a breach of trust both in financial institutions and in financial markets, and i would like to draw attention to this.
mr. chairman, please! the draft resolution on effective labour inspections draws our attention, among other things, to the need to guarantee at least a basic level of safety to unregistered workers who carry out their work without even a minimum of social protection. unfortunately, the continuing high level of unemployment, especially among young people, and the effects of the economic crisis that we are still facing in europe mean that many people are accepting worse working conditions and so-called undeclared work in order to earn a living. this has the effect of depriving these workers of both health insurance and pension security for the future. the increasing scale of this phenomenon is a very important social problem, the effects of which will increase in the future, and in view of these risks, action should be taken to develop common practices to protect workers from having to undertake unregistered work that is disadvantageous to them.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. employment and social security issues always involve a very delicate area, the dignity of workers. the reconciliation of employee and employer interests is extremely difficult and requires long discussions and many compromises. the trade-offs are monitored by labour inspectorates in each eu country. the way in which the employer-employee relationship is run depends on how well they work. the report highlights how many people in the european union have to deal with the daily disadvantages of working in a civil partnership or, worse, in unregistered work, colloquially known as 'black labour'. its instability and lack of rights deprive eu citizens of the ability to plan for their future, to take out a loan or even to enjoy leisure time, which is often not guaranteed. all of this is making us think deeply about the way the labor inspectorate works. it seems necessary to strengthen it. the idea of a european labour inspection platform, which could coordinate action at community level, is of particular interest. in an era of open labour markets and globalisation, this could help to better control unfair employers who take advantage of the eu's privileges.
mr. chairman, please! the draft resolution addresses the problem of insufficient social protection for the selfemployed. self-employed people are much worse off than employees in terms of their access to health insurance, social protection or future pension security. this unfair treatment of self-employed persons constitutes discrimination: in many cases, this form of employment is not chosen because it is more advantageous for the self-employed, but the self-employed are forced to do so because it is more advantageous for employers, who thus reduce the cost of employing workers. we must therefore seek to create mechanisms to limit the imposition of virtual self-employment by employers and to eliminate the differences in the legal situation of self-employed persons in the various member states. this will undoubtedly have an impact on the security of the selfemployed and the stabilisation of social protection systems.
mr. chairman, madam president, i have to go. in summing up the lithuanian presidency, we cannot remain silent but must speak out about the treatment of national minorities, and in particular the polish minority, in the country that has been leading the european union's affairs for the past few months. recently, at the request of a proxy of the lithuanian government, draconian fines of up to thousands of euros were imposed for the use of polish-language information boards on private properties. in lithuania, you cannot use your original surname. moreover, at the end of the year, the lithuanian parliament decided not to enact a law on national minorities in lithuania, despite the fact that they represent as much as 16% of the population of lithuania, including poles in the vilnius region, who represent 60% of the population. despite this, attempts are being made to remove the polish language from the lithuanian public sphere, while lithuania itself continues to violate the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities, which it has ratified, and also ignores the european charter for regional or minority languages. i appeal to you today, madam president, to end this blatant discrimination against the polish minority in lithuania, which is completely unnecessarily damaging the image of your beautiful country in europe.
mr president, i would like to say a few words, as chair of the committee on regional development, on interinstitutional cooperation between this parliament and the lithuanian presidency. as you probably know, parliament has for the first time been a co-legislator on the entire package for this policy, taking responsibility for this european investment policy for the years to come on an equal footing with the council negotiators. together we had to cope with a very complex multi-regulation framework for this policy which will, in the future, make a decisive contribution to europeʼs growth, the creation of jobs and also to improving european competitiveness. i think it is worth looking back at this interinstitutional joint effort, because lessons were learnt during this process with regard to both the working methods and also communication between the institutions and their legal services. we had parallels from the interlinked negotiations on umbrella and fund-specific regulations, which required extremely deep knowledge of the entire portfolio, but we could also clearly see that interinstitutional cooperation – which is based on trust and common goals – can be key to the efficiency and democratic legitimacy of european policy-making. i would like to thank most wholeheartedly all colleagues working at all levels of the presidency, starting with ministers, through ambassadors and right up to expert level. i would like to add just one or two sentences on a different issue. i would like to say that i welcome the presidencyʼs drive to take revision of the balance of payments facility forward. i understand that the file could not be finalised and presented for parliamentʼs approval due to the resistance of several member states, but i sincerely hope that the greek presidency will build on the lithuanian presidencyʼs work and reach a final agreement on the balance of payment facility. and lastly, i will keep my fingers crossed for lithuaniaʼs successful entry into the euro area.
(...) lithuania has done very well in this task. the successes of the lithuanian presidency include, first and foremost, the long-awaited agreement on the union's budget for 2014-2020 , as has been repeatedly indicated , and the related reforms of the main union policies, including cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. the progress made in creating the so-called banking union is also to be commended. however, there is a problem that undermines lithuania's positive image on the international stage. although the country has been a member of the council of europe for over 20 years, it still lacks comprehensive regulations in the area of the protection of national minority rights. representatives of other nationalities in lithuania do not have the right to write their names and surnames in languages other than lithuanian. the use of bilingual names of places is prohibited. examples of such discrimination and other actions in recent days have already been presented here. this is contrary to the provisions of the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities, which guarantees the possibility of bilingual names of public places. once again, congratulations on the presidency.
mr. chairman, madam president, i have to go. thank you for this presidency. lithuania's presidency of the council has set itself very ambitious objectives, one of the key ones being to strengthen relations with the community's eastern neighbours. the planned eastern partnership summit in vilnius seemed to be a huge success not only for lithuania, but for the european union as a whole. unfortunately, things turned out differently, despite the enormous efforts of lithuanian politicians to try to convince the ukrainian leadership to choose the european path. i personally consider that the greatest success of the lithuanian presidency was the adoption by the council of a general approach to the posting of workers. the deadlock of over a year has been broken and talks have been resumed on a subject of such importance for the internal market. i would like to thank minister pabedinskiene and her team in particular. it should be noted that it was during the lithuanian presidency that the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 were finally finalised. we in the european parliament in particular know how difficult this task has been, especially now in a period of budget cuts and increasing anti-eu tendencies. lithuanian diplomats and officials are therefore to be thanked in a special way. in these difficult negotiations, they were able to take account of the interests of the union as a whole and to ensure that growth prospects were not sacrificed on the altar of budget cuts.
mr. chairman, please! i thank the lithuanian presidency, and i will not repeat its successes, which my colleagues have mentioned here. i congratulate the president and her team, thank you for your hard work. however, i feel obliged to point out that lithuania continues to discriminate against national minorities living on its territory. the polish minority is particularly discriminated against, as they are forbidden to use the polish language. recently, a district court in vilnius handed down a sentence for using polish-language street signs on private property. the european parliament opposes all forms of discrimination. in the resolutions adopted in this chamber on numerous occasions, we have fought discrimination on ethnic grounds, but today we are faced with a situation in which a member state of the union tolerates discriminatory behaviour towards its own citizens who admit to belonging to a polish national minority. i am sorry to say that this attitude is totally contrary to the vision of a europe based on respect for human rights. i therefore ask the president to finally resolve this problem and i ask the european commission to take up the situation of ethnic minorities in lithuania.
in writing. – despite lithuania being a small baltic nation in its ninth year as an eu member and its 23rd year as an independent state, its first eu presidency of the eu council has been solid, competent and effective. the presidency successfully completed negotiations on 137 legislative acts on various dossiers ranging from environmental legislation to the digital agenda and the eu banking union. furthermore, it adopted 251 documents that are important to europe's future, made progress on negotiating 114 initiatives and finalized 239 non-legislative acts. another important element of the presidency was the eastern partnership. here, despite the failure to conclude an agreement with ukraine, the lithuanian presidency delivered association agreements with moldova and georgia and signed visa facilitation deal with azerbaijan. however, among these important achievements, i deplore the fact that the lithuanian presidency did little to change the country’s attitudes towards its ethnic polish minority. this group, which forms about 8 % of the nation’s population, continues to face discrimination in language, schools and land titles. it is therefore my hope that the experience lithuania gained during its six-month term in the presidency will help change the country’s approach to this particular ethnic minority group and to others which also suffer discrimination.
mr. chairman, please! in the leading countries of the community, consumer protection has reached a high level, the maintenance of which should be one of the objectives of the programme. unfortunately, not all consumers have the right tools to fully exercise their rights. the regulations in question leave much to be desired, for example in poland, where a number of provisions refer to the situation before the period of systemic transformation. i therefore welcomed the fact that the council agreement was supported by all the political groups. the report under discussion strengthens consumer safety by improving market surveillance mechanisms, points to the need for greater information, in particular on product prices, and calls for greater protection through the development of online dispute resolution systems. however, the relatively small amount of funds available to achieve the objectives may raise concerns about the effectiveness of these measures.
mr. chairman, please! in the programming period to be launched, the development of regional smart specialisation strategies will be a requirement for receiving support from regional development funds. this will be the basis for investments in research, development and innovation. in particular, in the face of recession, systematically increasing the capacity of innovators contributes to increasing competitiveness and reducing the losses resulting from budgetary constraints. however, experience has shown that the lack of a comprehensive and coherent strategy in the regions has led to a dispersion of support, covering too wide areas of action. decisions to finance specific projects were often based on political considerations, without concern for the need for a balanced development of the region. interregional cooperation also played too small a role. i therefore expect a more effective cohesion policy in the coming years.
in writing. - innovation is now the guiding principle behind many initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens in a broad sense. the innovation economy that the member states are striving for is one that makes effective use of scientific advances, uses technological advances in a way that respects the environment and ensures that the eu is more competitive on the world stage. the european regional development fund, in its efforts to bridge the gap between the regions of the community, is promoting this kind of innovation. however, in recent years, the support provided under the programme has not produced the expected results, as, according to the rapporteur, it has covered too many areas and the decisions on the allocation of funds have been different from the actual needs of the regions. this document therefore proposes the implementation of a so-called smart specialisation, whereby the regional authorities choose the objectives for which support is to be allocated. in order to benefit from erdf assistance in the new programming period, regions will have to present strategies setting out their research, development and innovation priorities. of course, they will need to consider their strengths and weaknesses and determine in what direction they can best develop. if the regional authorities exploit the potential of this idea and, in cooperation with the actors concerned, i.e. research institutes and businesses, choose the right development path, the use of the structural funds will be much more effective than before and will result in economic growth for the area and an improvement in the quality of life of its inhabitants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on excellence in networks for effective cohesion policy. i believe that the regional modulation envisaged in the report is extremely important, especially in view of the disparities which exist today between the various regions both within and between the member states. in this sense, i am in favour of the introduction of 'related diversity', which means the dissemination of technologies, products and services related to existing technologies and areas of competence which have already been established at regional level. promoting a culture of innovation, taking into account the specificities of the territory, is undoubtedly an effective strategy to promote growth.
in writing. - in the current economic, financial and social crisis, budgetary resources are severely limited. innovation is playing an increasingly important role as a means of increasing the eu's global competitiveness and creating new jobs. investing in research and development is one of the key objectives of cohesion policy, which aims to make the eu economy more competitive. the report draws attention to the fact that each region should prioritise the mobilisation of r & d funds by analysing the weaknesses and strengths that need to be addressed in regional innovation strategies. it's a good report, important also from poland's point of view.
in writing. − the key to the new cohesion policy for 2014-2020 will be specialisation based on knowledge and innovation and exploiting the unique potential of each region. the granting of eu funds to almost all projects will directly require the beneficiary to demonstrate that the above values are reflected in the planned investment. i welcome this development of cohesion policy. it is particularly timely in many ways. first, it allows the eu's support to be tailored to local realities to the greatest extent possible, thereby involving the local community more and encouraging entrepreneurship. secondly, smart specialisation is precisely what can help us to overcome the economic crisis on the one hand and to boost the global competitiveness of europe's regions on the other. smart specialisation is, however, innovative ideas that are developed through close cooperation between local science centres and small and medium-sized enterprises, which have the potential to attract investment, thus generating employment and economic growth. intelligent specialisation is also developing on the basis of respect for the environment and available resources. it is important that european regions are able to define and then boldly exploit their individual potential, building their own brand and recognition. now that we have made significant investments in european infrastructure, it is time to bring promising local businesses into european networks. i therefore fully support the report.
in writing. - the european union recognises the importance of its cohesion policy, sees the need for innovation and can achieve some success in this area, but the links between these actions are not strong enough. the need to pursue a coherent and coherent cohesion strategy should be emphasised. the local context and current needs in different regions cannot be ignored, but the approach to all issues should be based on a set of objectives, as precise as possible. this is made all the more difficult by the fact that the limited effects of some programmes have often been due to the unfortunate definition of areas of support or the failure to adapt the type of support to local needs. within the objectives and multiannual priorities set at european level, it seems appropriate to support local entrepreneurship and private investment in not only technological development but also in other innovative ideas aimed at exploiting the potential of the region in a creative way. if we now make the smart specialisation strategy a real opportunity for eu regions to choose the right path of development and implement tailor-made innovative solutions, we will be on the path to greater stability. this is not only a question of the functioning of smes, but can also play an important role in local and regional integration and will help to develop a better position and market penetration.
in writing. − centres of excellence (ce) are scientific units or organisational structures that carry out scientific research and develop advanced technologies at the highest world level. they bring together teams of scientists with outstanding research achievements who collaborate on common themes, carry out joint research and technology projects, work closely with industry and conduct training and education activities. the cds should be organisationally independent by design, but at the same time they must be based on a recognised research unit (this could be, for example, a pan, a university or a research and development unit). the centre of excellence programme does not envisage the creation of new research institutions, but rather a kind of 'laboratory' actively collaborating with industry or other scientific centres. the researchers working within the centre address strategic issues by drawing on the scientific facilities of several different institutions, working under a common scientific and organisational direction, with a relatively high degree of autonomy. centres of excellence should carry out both basic and applied research projects and participate in the implementation of innovative technologies. the size of the team and the available research facilities must be sufficient to carry out the planned work.
in writing. − the mep, as part of his work in a parliamentary committee, reports on the draft text of a legal act presented by the european commission, which has the sole legislative initiative. the parliamentary committee shall put the report to the vote, with any amendments that may be necessary. the european parliament shall express its position by amending the text and voting in plenary. the adoption of legislative acts is governed by the ordinary legislative procedure (co-decision), which places parliament on an equal footing with the council, and by special legislative procedures, which apply only to specific cases where parliament has a consultative role. on certain matters, the european parliament has only a consultative role. in some cases, the treaty makes consultation mandatory because it is required by a legal basis, in which case the draft cannot become law unless parliament delivers an opinion. in such a situation, the council shall not be empowered to take a decision on its own. parliament has the right of political initiative. it may request the commission to submit draft legislative acts to the council. parliament is effectively involved in the development of new legislative texts, as it considers the commission's annual work programme and indicates the acts that should be adopted. most european laws are passed jointly by the european parliament and the governments of the member states. the legislative workflow is called the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. - i am in favour of adopting a resolution on the regulation of co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. in 2011, parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 510/2011 which provides for a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from cars to 147g co2/km from 2020. according to the technical analyses carried out, it is feasible to achieve the above co2 emission level by 2020. the adopted guidelines will certainly have an impact on the development of research and innovation in european automotive markets and will also improve their competitiveness on the international scene. the target of reducing co2 to 147g/km will reduce fuel consumption by 17% per year, compared to 175g for 2017. the regulation also imposes penalties on manufacturers who exceed the co2 emission limit for the production of commercial vehicles. the exception is made for smaller-scale manufacturers with an annual turnover of no more than 22 000 light commercial vehicles. regulations toughening up co2 emission limits for vehicles are necessary to protect and preserve the environment for future generations, especially as passenger cars and vans are responsible for more than half of the greenhouse gases emitted by the transport industry in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr krahmer's report because i believe that the work done in committee has produced a text which is sufficiently realistic and, above all, which takes account of the current economic circumstances in the car sector. the emission limit proposed by the commission of 147 g co2/km was considered too ambitious from the outset. the amendment of the directive therefore sent a strong signal to our entrepreneurs, while keeping the focus on the environment, which must never be left out of a constant assessment, also based on macroeconomic contingencies.
in writing. − how can we combine technological innovation and the reduction of co2 emissions caused by the road sector? the answer is relatively easy: setting well balanced emissions targets for vehicles, in this case for new light commercial vehicles. i voted in favour of this report since i am strongly convinced that technological innovation in the automobile sector can be encouraged by reasonable emissions targets to reduce fuel consumption. being too ambitions could increase the costs of road transport and thus have a negative impact of the mobility of our society. therefore, i welcome that the european parliament has found a good solution – a solution between reality and vision which will support an innovative european automotive industry to develop further.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles because i see a prospect for achieving that goal. the report proposes a number of solutions for reducing co2 emissions from vans. first is the target of 147g/km from 2020. all opinions are consistent that the goal is achievable, and i believe that companies will achieve it without high costs. i feel satisfied that the proposal excludes smaller vehicle manufacturers with an output of less than 22 000 new light commercial vehicles registered in the union per year. i should stress that the rapporteur notes the potentially far-reaching consequences of parliament’s decisions in relation to the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises which primarily use such vehicles. in addition, the counsel has set out incentive systems. all these factors help us to have a coherent and clear overview of the challenges for the eu with regard to light commercial vehicles and co2 emissions.
in writing. − from 2014, manufacturers of light commercial vehicles will have to comply with new co2 emission requirements. from 2017, all commercial vehicles produced will have to be fully eco-friendly. in contrast, manufacturers of commercial vehicles that emit less than the accepted standards will be further promoted. the european union is already planning to introduce co2 emissions reductions for heavy-duty vehicles. environment ministers from the eu member states have adopted the text of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council setting emission standards for new light commercial vehicles. the meeting was attended by janusz zaleski, undersecretary of state at the ministry of the environment, chief conservator of nature. the aim of the regulation will be to oblige manufacturers of these types of vehicles to reduce the average co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles to 175 g/km from 2014 onwards, and gradually by 2017. this means that 70% of cars will have to meet the co2 emission limit in 2014 and the percentage of vehicles will increase in the following years: 75% in 2015, 80% in 2016, 100% in 2017. the regulation also provides for the introduction of a system of incentives for manufacturers to market cars emitting less than 50 g co2/km, the so-called super credits. at the same time, non-compliant manufacturers producing vehicles exceeding the co2 emission levels will be subject to the levy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the establishment of a consumer protection programme for 2014-2020. i believe it is essential to ensure that the interests of 500 million consumers in the european union are adequately protected. this programme provides them with the opportunity to enforce their rights in the event of infringements and supports consumers in how to enforce them. the primary concern is to provide customers with reliable information on the prices and quality of the products concerned. european consumer organisations and online comparison websites, which would provide a platform for the exchange of good practice, have a major role to play in this respect. i also support the initiative to set up a european accreditation centre with a database of trustworthy online businesses, which would translate into greater consumer confidence in online shopping. the programme also provides for the creation of an eu platform for online consumer dispute resolution, which will also provide a platform for complaints and information exchange, in order to facilitate the effective enforcement of rights by european consumers. i am in favour of adopting this document because, by creating the appropriate administrative instruments, it helps to detect and tackle irregularities effectively. it thus ensures a high level of protection of the rights and interests of consumers in the european union.
in writing. − citizens' participation in the single market is essential to enable them to fully enjoy their rights. however, citizens must have confidence in the single market and feel safe operating within it. we see the enormous importance of business to the european economy, but consumers are the other side of the coin. and they're driving the economy by buying, and we're talking about 56% of gdp in terms of spending, so overall product safety is critical. the objectives around which the consumer protection programme 2014-2020 is centred are set out to enhance this safety and to provide consumers with information about their rights. nevertheless, dispute resolution systems are important. in this respect, parliament adopted the relevant adr and odr regulations. these dispute resolution mechanisms need to be available to ensure that the greatest possible number of people benefit from them and this is where the programme will also play a role. annual spending planning will be important to achieve the objectives as effectively as possible despite budgetary constraints. i supported the report because i am convinced that in a time of increasingly complex markets, the programme will help to increase consumer participation and confidence in the european single market.
in writing. − it is no secret that consumers in europe are increasingly faced with increasingly complex decisions. in addition, globalisation and digitalisation are fast-moving phenomena, giving people and consumers little time to adapt. many people, young and old, are victims of misleading or exploitative suppliers of goods and services. in this context, the assistance provided to consumers by the european consumer centres is of particular importance. in order to increase consumer confidence both in the consumer centres and in the scheme itself, we should focus on its transparency and demonstrate its effectiveness in its implementation, with particular regard to online transactions. alternative dispute resolution bodies should be facilitated to the maximum extent possible and should have continuous contact to enable consultation and exchange of good practices. in situations of frequent and rapid changes in the market for goods and services, rapid exchange of information and adaptation of actions are particularly important not only from the consumer's point of view. we must also make a reasonable allocation of the financial resources for the study of the present situation and the actions to be taken as a result of this assessment. the ability to look ahead, to assess market stability, the emergence of new threats and new consumer needs is very important.
in writing. − this programme is intended to be a continuation of the previous one, but will focus primarily on empowering consumers through safety, information and education, and enforcement and redress mechanisms. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, as well as the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and maintenance of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings. a knowledge base for eu and national policy-making on consumer issues will also be developed, for example a scoreboard for consumer markets showing which markets do not meet consumers' expectations in europe; legislation aimed at extending consumer rights, for example a consumer credit directive providing consumers across europe with the same set of fundamental rights, including the right to clear and comparable information before making a financial commitment; claims: this is a matter where preparatory work has already been carried out, in particular on alternative redress methods; enforcement actions using control actions coordinated by the european commission and simultaneously conducted by national consumer enforcement bodies where these rights are at risk or at risk.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by our colleague, the chairman of the parliament's committee on international trade, concerns the alignment of council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community quotas for certain meat and cereals products with the 'lisbon' legislative system, namely articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. regulation (ec) no 774/94 confers implementing powers on the european commission and gives it the possibility to adapt its provisions as regards the size of tariff quotas and their conditions. the amendments we, as meps, wish to make to this regulation include the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts by providing us with full documentation from the meetings on the drafting of acts at expert level, limit the delegation of powers to the commission to five-year periods and extend the deadline for the possible objection to acts, if any. i fully support these proposals, because they will give the european parliament the right to have an insight into the work of the commission and the international trade committee, with its corresponding powers, will have control over the procedures relating to quotas.
in writing. − union tariff quotas are established to ensure that a certain set of goods can be imported into the european union at customs duties lower than those recorded in the customs tariff. the exhaustion of a union tariff quota or the expiry of a period for which it is established shall not automatically block the possibility of importing from third countries. the import of the goods is still possible, but the customs office will then use the rate set in the customs tariff, and not in the regulation establishing the union tariff quota, to calculate the value of the duty due. in the case of union tariff quotas, the type of goods for which these preferential trade policy measures are established is essential to the way in which they are allocated. the main division is between agri-food commodities and what are conventionally called industrial commodities (conventionally because fish, for example, also belong to this group). agri-food products are goods covered by the common agricultural policy, which is governed by community legislation, and processed goods not covered by annex i to the treaty establishing the european community, so-called non-annex i goods. industrial goods are all other goods subject to customs duties.
in writing. - imports from turkey are becoming increasingly popular. although this is not as popular as, say, imports from china, it seems that turkey could soon become the largest factory in the old continent. no, it's not a mistake in the previous topic article, we explained why turkey should be understood (especially in terms of imports) in terms of a european country. now, following the punch, we begin the cycle of answering questions from e-import.pl readers. the first concerns customs clearance, a problem for many importers importing goods from turkey. in the broad sense, trade with turkey (and therefore imports from turkey) is based on the customs union legislation, which is fully complemented by free trade agreements. the latter concern unprocessed agricultural products and products covered by the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (whose competence has now been taken over by the european union). these legal resolutions, which regulate the rules of trade between the community countries and turkey (which is seeking accession to the eu), provide for and constitute the total abolition of import and export duties on the union-turkey line. in addition, the provisions provide for the abolition of other charges, including those of an internal nature, which may not be levied on industrial goods imported from turkey and covered by the provisions of the customs union.
in writing. - the regulation aims to create a quality policy. the aromatised wine sector is important for the eu food market and consumers. it's about the customer information laws. the name shall not be used as a customer exclusivity designation. the geographical indications and the biological characteristics of the ingredients used are important. specific guidelines and rules for producers of aromatised wine should be developed. the safety of the consumer is paramount. the definition of aromatised wine needs to be adapted. the ingredients are important. production should be adjusted to take account of the evolution of these products over the last 20 years. the organic production is important. for some aromatised wines, such as egg wines, there is a problem with the analysis and determination of the cholesterol content. consumers have the right to reliable information on the origin and content of a product.
in writing. − the use of carbon capture and storage technology in european industry is currently the only method that is expected to lead to significant co2 emissions reductions in industrial sectors such as steel, cement, chemicals and oil refineries. this method, using carbon dioxide from the combustion of fossil fuels, contributes to the production of low-carbon electricity and has an impact on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. the implementation of this technology is of particular importance in view of the european union's objective of significantly reducing co2 emissions by 2050. moreover, according to the international energy agency, fossil fuels will continue to dominate energy markets in the coming decades, which further increases the importance of the technology. i think we should invest in new, low-carbon, environmentally friendly technologies and promote them. one of them is the method of carbon capture and storage used by european industry. however, it should be borne in mind that it still requires specific guidance from the european commission to obtain financial support for its implementation in individual member states.
in writing. − carbon capture and storage technology can be one of the key elements in reducing carbon emissions into the atmosphere. unfortunately, its implementation faces a number of technical and financial problems. the number of pilot schemes so far is small, and transporting carbon dioxide from the point of emission to the place of storage is a major environmental challenge. it should be stressed that, in a situation where it is clear that these technologies are far from being implemented, the role of biological sorption, including in soils, in reducing the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere should also be considered. actions to increase it could lead to effective carbon offsetting.
in writing. − the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technology will be of key importance in the coming years, given that global co2 emissions will need to be significantly reduced by 2050. this technology is the only one capable of producing substantial co2 reductions, as it is suitable for keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c. in this way, we could counter the threat of global warming.
in writing. − the development of renewable energy sources should remain a key objective of legislation, but also of eu financial support. carbon capture and storage should be considered as a transitional solution that can help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial sources. this technology cannot be considered as competitive with renewable energy sources and cannot be considered as a means of reducing co2 emissions. however, its proper implementation and closing the legal gap should make it much easier for member states to introduce new, cleaner energy technologies.
in writing. - a few decades ago, carbon capture and storage (ccs) emerged as a breakthrough technology that would enable fossil fuel-based power plants to be powered without further environmental damage. but the work on co2 sequestration has been accompanied by disappointed hopes and unfulfilled promises from the start. in theory, ccs technology allows carbon dioxide to be captured, transported and compressed underground, where it is stored safely and does not escape into the atmosphere. in practice, stopping carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels used for energy production and other industrial purposes is proving very difficult and expensive. while some of the carbon capture and storage processes are already being used successfully, for example in natural gas extraction, the development of an integrated system to capture co2 on an industrial scale, for example in fossil fuel-fired power plants, is still in the future. despite many incentives from governments around the world to develop carbon capture and storage technologies, many projects never got off the drawing board because of the huge investment and uncertainty about future profits. the projects that are still underway require huge support from the state and there is no guarantee that the invested funds will ever be returned.
in writing. − this project complements the first plan adopted in 2004 to promote the use of ict in european healthcare systems. given the adverse demographic changes currently taking place, such as the ageing of the population, the increase in the incidence of chronic diseases, the decrease in the number of medical staff and the increasing demands on the quality of medical services, i believe that ehealth is a tool to ensure easier and equal access to healthcare for all citizens. this is particularly useful for people with chronic illnesses who can be treated at home or who live in remote or sparsely populated areas. the introduction of ehealth services also has the clear advantage of providing easy access to personalised patient medical records stored in one place, regardless of where the patient is currently located. however, it is necessary to guarantee an adequate level of security and protection for union citizens' personal data and medical data, which can be relatively easily targeted by hacking and attacks. i believe that the successful implementation of the ehealth action plan 2012-2020 also requires close cooperation between local and regional authorities to secure eu grants for innovative health policy solutions in individual member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the ehealth action plan 2012-2020: innovative healthcare for the 21st century. e-health, or electronic health services, is conducive to the spread and improvement of healthcare. access to ehealth services reduces waiting times, improves working conditions and ensures access to health services for people living in less urbanised regions. the resolution stresses the need to adapt the assistance, information and training that should be available across the union to enable widespread use of ehealth services and calls on the commission to report on progress in the implementation of ehealth activities.
in writing. −the greatest value a person has besides his family is health, which is why all actions aimed at simplifying the healthcare system, removing barriers, accessibility are very important. it is important that the report outlines a vision for ehealth in europe in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the european digital agency objectives and encourages cooperation between states and stakeholders. i believe that we must remove the barriers that hinder the building of a fully developed healthcare system in europe. action should be taken to accelerate the use of advanced technologies in health. we recognise that eu health systems are facing major challenges today. the market for electronic health services is known to have great potential. it's important that it be patient-centered and that it contribute to improving health care. i therefore voted in favour of the report by ms pilar ayuso ehealth action plan 2012-2020 .
in writing. − while progress has been made since 2004, when the eu launched the first ehealth action plan, obstacles to the configuration of an integrated european system still exist, including: lack of knowledge and trust among patients, citizens and healthcare professionals about ehealth solutions; lack of interoperability of ehealth solutions; inadequate or incomplete regulatory framework; regional differences in access to ict services and limited access in the most deprived areas. the high number of incompatible products in europe is an inevitable consequence of market fragmentation and the absence of standards for communication and exchange or the fact that mass buyers are not familiar with these standards. as a result, it is often not possible to connect the it systems of countries, border regions or even health centres. for example, software used in the radiology departments of some hospitals cannot be linked to software used in other departments of the same hospital. in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the digital agenda for europe, the new action plan aims to identify and address these obstacles, clarify policy issues and provide a concise overview of ehealth in europe. the global e-health market, which is undergoing a huge expansion, could be worth $27.3 billion by 2016. some of the major european companies are world leaders in this field.
in writing. - i supported a draft report on the food crisis, fraud in the food supply chain and its control. the agri-food industry is a fast-growing sector of the european economy, employing 48 million people. i believe that ensuring food safety is one of the european union's top priorities. in this context, the union has a very detailed legal framework on the need to carry out controls at different stages of the food supply chain, but there is no uniform definition of fraud in the food sector. unfortunately, recent experience shows that there is an increasing incidence of food counterfeiting, including the substitution of main ingredients for cheaper and inferior counterparts, mislabelling of products or labelling of ordinary food as organic. recent european-wide fraud scandals include the sale of horse meat as beef, caged eggs as organic eggs, and road salt as table salt. the european union should therefore make every effort to minimise the scale of fraud in the food sector. to this end, the frequency of unannounced checks and inspections by the commission's food and veterinary office should be increased, as well as the cooperation at international level between the relevant national authorities and europol in cases of cross-border investigations.
in writing. − one of the main goals for which we are all working together is to ensure that europe's citizens live in health and well-being. that is why our farmers and businessmen must meet high standards for breeding, growing and producing food. these new restrictions, certificates or requirements are a hindrance, but they also make european products known throughout the world as having a great reputation. in view of the food scandals of recent years, we can say that there is still a lot of legislative work to be done. food fraud harms both consumers, who pay for counterfeit goods and put their health at risk, and producers, who strive to meet requirements and care for quality, and whose reputations are unlawfully damaged.
in writing. − the presence of equine animals in meat sold as beef on the european market demonstrates the existence of deficiencies in the food control system and the unreliability of food producers and distributors. we must make a clear stand against this kind of behavior. we are investing too much in european agriculture, ensuring that farmers and processors meet high quality standards, only to have confidence in our food sector eroded by the dishonest practices of traders looking for profit at any cost. i am in favour of making the eu food chain more transparent, taking into account the need for legislative changes towards increased traceability of products and their ingredients, so that the consumer has clarity on where the food they buy really comes from. this will involve a review of the way food is labelled. more frequent, random checks are also needed at different stages of the food chain, taking into account the transnational nature of the process. on the one hand, we must therefore try to harmonise the rules on controls between member states and ensure that information flows smoothly. on the other hand, i would call for the centralisation of food safety agencies within each member state, in order to clearly define their responsibilities and improve their functioning. furthermore, i believe that the crisis in question is a great opportunity to look more closely at the benefits of short, local production chains. for these reasons, i fully support the report presented.
in writing. − the new fraud cases uncovered in the food sector show that fraud is a growing problem, with an increasingly diverse nature, and that new ways of detecting and punishing fraud are needed to eliminate illicit profits. the first priority should be to ensure that food quality standards are respected. on the one hand, the increasing number of exposed frauds, such as the horse meat scandal or the sale of ordinary products as organic, shows that consumer safety is increasing and fraud is being exposed. on the other hand, the knowledge that road salt may have been present in everyday food products raises legitimate concerns among consumers. it is not easy to detect counterfeit food before it is placed on the market. it's hard to prevent fraud. but when it does, many people may be harmed by eating food that does not conform to the label. let us not forget that the main reason for fraud in the food industry is not to poison consumers, who are also customers of food producers, but to gain economic advantage. it should lead to a situation where producers are not paid to cheat themselves and other companies, reducing consumer confidence in the product. we also need a clear definition of food fraud and crime, and strong penalties can act as a deterrent.
in writing. - the biggest problem is the issue of counterfeiting food products. a rigid legal framework is needed in this area. counterfeit food products are being placed on the market, which may endanger the general consumer. the european union should start pushing for new legislative solutions. specific actions should be regulated and public confidence in the institutions should be increased. sanctions are far from intimidating, and we need to increase penalties for economic fraud. food safety and the interests of consumers have always been the primary concerns of the envi committee and of the european parliament as a whole. in recent years, there has been increasing attention to the related but distinct issue of fraud in the food sector, for example in relation to cases of fraudulent food labelling and other fraud that have affected the eu food supply chain. examples such as the use of road salt for food, the sale of normal eggs as organic, and the recent horse meat scandal seem to indicate a persistent or structural problem. such cases of food fraud have negatively affected consumer confidence in the food supply chain, creating a major paradox: food is safer than ever, but consumer confidence is low.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for mr steinruck's report today despite some of the points which i consider to be excessive in the context of labour inspection. i agree that we need effective and adequate labour inspections in the european union, especially if we are to increase mobility in the internal market and to make ever greater use of the freedom of movement of workers, services and entrepreneurship. labour inspections are an essential element which, together with cooperation and exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states and an appropriate level of monitoring, should ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and respect for the principles of competitiveness. however, the report contained many provisions that could have caused an excessive administrative and financial burden without adding any value. such records include the creation of a union register of a1 forms, which would complement existing national registers and be accessible to authorities throughout the european union. i consider that the introduction of such a register at union level would entail excessive costs and burdens for national administrations and would not have the intended effect. information on issued a1 forms can be accessed through the exchange of information between member states' authorities and through the increasingly common use of imi. in addition, the suggested early warning system for worker protection and unregistered work, such as the rapid alert system (rapex) or the blacklisting, are entirely inadequate solutions for labour law and related violations.
in writing. − in order to pursue economic and social improvement, the eu continues to work to best meet the challenges of a constantly changing labour market. the aim is to intervene at national level to safeguard workers' rights by strengthening inspections and at european level by promoting new legislative initiatives. i believe that today's vote is a step in the right direction towards strengthening the tools already available to the member states by the eu to improve the quality of work for our citizens.
in writing. −the report aims to highlight the role of labour inspection systems in tackling undeclared work, which is a major problem in the european union. at present, all forms of combating undeclared work through labour inspection are hampered in many member states by the reduction in financial costs imposed by the search for savings. an effective labour inspection system is able to meet the challenges of a changing labour market and is an important part of good governance. labour inspectors are essential to monitor the respect of labour rights, prevent the exploitation of workers by dishonest employers, but also to promote economic and social development. the economic crisis cannot be an obstacle, but should be an incentive to improve and strengthen labour inspections to give workers the protection they need.
in writing. - the problems of undeclared work affect all eu countries. the resulting and expanding grey area not only has negative economic consequences but also exacerbates social difficulties. for unregistered workers, family planning and planning for their own future and ensuring financially stable conditions for the children's growth are very difficult. moreover, the situation is also unnecessarily complicated for registered workers who pay social security contributions, as the grey area creates a harmful type of competition for lower wages on the labour market. the issue is serious, as undeclared work accounts for almost 20% of the union's total gdp. the aim of our actions should be to regulate this situation and, above all, to support workers in obtaining fair treatment and the sense of security enjoyed by registered workers. the monitoring of compliance with the established rules will be particularly important here, as widespread exploitation at work is a real problem not only for workers but also for enterprises, especially those in the sme sector. in order to be able to effectively prevent abuse, the labour administration should be given the appropriate tools and powers to do so. it is important not only to take the question of the effectiveness of labour inspection seriously, but also to cover all categories of workers.
in writing. − the eu strategy on health and safety at work recommended that member state governments develop a national policy in this area. such a policy should have been included in the 'national development strategy of the country'. its implementation was to be monitored in annual reports. poland has reported to the european commission on the multiannual programme 'adapting working conditions in poland to european union standards' adopted by the council of ministers. the current european strategy differs from previous programmes in that it indicates the need to use a set of complementary instruments as diverse as possible and to involve all actors in the health sector, in particular employers, managers and employees. the strategy takes a global approach to workplace comfort, taking into account changes in the world of work and the emergence of new risks, especially those of a psychosocial nature.
mr. chairman, please! i support the report on the financial participation of employees. i think that phil bennion has presented in a balanced way the forms of employee participation in the management and financial profits of the companies for which they work, the benefits that flow from this and the related current european problems. employee financial participation schemes are a range of models that give companies and employees the opportunity to work together for the benefit of themselves and society as a whole. europe still lags behind the united states in terms of the financial participation of workers, another untapped potential, and the union is losing competitiveness. like the rapporteur, i believe that fiscal and taxation policies play a key role in the development and implementation of the participation system, with particular regard to the competence of the member states. in addition, work should be done on disseminating information and preparing educational activities on possible worker ownership schemes. financial participation stimulates employees' entrepreneurship and commitment, not to mention the potential financial benefits. i congratulate the rapporteur on a good report.
in writing. − a worker's company is one of many types of company in an economy. it is situated within a general legal and organisational framework and has certain characteristics which clearly distinguish it from other companies. before discussing these characteristics, it is necessary to identify the factors that characterise the companies in general. the following are the main features of a partnership. a company is a legal relationship in the form of a contract involving at least two entities pursuing a common economic objective. the company's business may be in the sphere of production, services and trade. a shareholding in a company is linked by law to a share in the company's profits. benefits of participation may include access to certain benefits and services. from an economic point of view, a company is an association of persons or capital for the purpose of carrying on a business. in the broadest sense, a company can be defined as an association of natural or legal persons who pool their capital to carry out a joint economic activity and generate income. the basic division of companies is related to their legal basis. a company formed and operating under the civil code is called a civil company, while a company formed and operating under the commercial companies code is called a commercial company. the following are also distinguished from commercial companies: public company, limited company, limited liability company, joint stock company and their combinations.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the report on social protection for all today because of a number of positive elements in it. i agree with the call for closer administrative cooperation between the various institutions at national and eu level to facilitate the implementation of eu law, to limit undeclared work or, more precisely, false self-employment. in addition, the report draws the attention of member states to the fact that migrant workers from the european union working in another member state cannot be subject to discriminatory social protection rules. the document addresses the important issue of false self-employment, which is becoming a real and growing problem in europe and which is difficult to resolve unambiguously at eu level due to the almost exclusive competence of the member states in this area. however, failure to act will lead to distortions of competition in the internal market and to a breach of the rights of social workers.
in writing. − every citizen of the european union has the right to benefit from social security under eu and national law. access to social protection systems is particularly important in the event of illness, incapacity for work, disability, unemployment or maternity. social benefits help union citizens to adapt to changes in labour markets, while contributing to the fight against social exclusion and poverty. unfortunately, as a result of the economic crisis and the reduction in wages and social contributions, together with the increase in the number of unemployed, the european social protection system has been weakened, and those from particularly vulnerable groups have been the most affected. i therefore believe that member states should develop their own procedures for the development of social benefit systems for their citizens. it is important not to overlook the growing number of selfemployed people, who represent 15% of all those employed in the european union. in some member states, these people often have difficulty in obtaining adequate social assistance. their interests are very rarely represented by trade unions, which further exacerbates the problem of abuses and irregularities. in view of the above, i believe that only effective cooperation between national and eu authorities will be able to effectively tackle the problems arising from differences in labour market legislation.
in writing. − social protection aims to provide men and women with basic income security and access to essential services throughout the various phases of their lives. while they are an essential mechanism for promoting inclusion and addressing inequalities, national social security mechanisms in all member states have been subjected to cuts due to the financial crisis. paradoxically, these cuts took place at the same time as the number of people out of work and in need of social support significantly increased. with the goal of providing lasting and effective social protection for all, the current report calls on member states to optimise and modernise protection systems, ensure sustainable long-term financing for their schemes, and draw up social security strategies that take account of the international labour organisation guidelines. the report further emphasises the need to recognise and protect self-employed workers who, although they represent 15% of the total workforce in the eu generally, have restricted access to social security in some member states. as a socialist mep, i believe that the use of resources for social protection should not be regarded as expenditure but as an investment in sustainable economic growth and social inclusion in the eu. therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − access to social security is a fundamental right and an integral part of the european social model. in 2012, self-employment, most widespread in italy, greece, portugal and romania, accounted for over 15% of total employment in the eu. there is a need to improve administrative cooperation between the different actors (tax offices, municipal administrations, etc.) both at national and european level. at a time of crisis such as the present, when member states are faced with high levels of unemployment, especially among young people, political action can only focus on achieving these objectives.
in writing. − in many member states, the burden on social assistance systems has increased in the face of economic difficulties caused by the economic crisis. the report addresses important issues such as equal and non-discriminatory social protection and the right to universal and non-discriminatory access to social assistance. social protection aims to provide men and women with basic income security and access to essential benefits at different stages of life. social assistance is a key mechanism to tackle inequalities and needs to be strengthened, especially at this difficult time for europe.
in writing. − social protection for eu citizens at work is an investment in their development, productivity and stability. it is only when every effort is made to ensure greater equality and to ensure that it functions effectively, with a view to reaching all those who can benefit from it, that it becomes more relevant and relevant. in addition to the obvious benefits and rights of belonging to a social protection scheme, such as access to education and healthcare, the social inclusion aspect deserves particular attention. there is no doubt that issues such as the guarantee of a minimum income or the availability of various benefits are of great importance for social justice, and that reaching out to a wider range of society will be a significant step forward in the fight against poverty and inequality in the eu. social policy is becoming increasingly important at a time when the number of unemployed and those at risk of social exclusion is increasing. the social protection of self-employed persons is hampered by the fact that the system has been designed for years for wage-earners. so once we have established who is truly self-employed and who is entitled to certain benefits, we need to make sure that the extent of care is not discriminatory. it is necessary to regulate the situation in some eu countries where self-employed people, paying higher social security contributions, have limited access to benefits.
in writing. − there is currently no clear eu-wide definition that clearly distinguishes between selfemployed persons who are acting in good faith and are actually selfemployed and fictitious selfemployed persons. each competent authority and institution applies its own legal or regulatory framework, which may vary according to its area of competence and the policy area in which it operates (e.g. taxation, social security, commercial law, labour market, insurance). these abuses may involve the avoidance of social security and tax payments, the violation of workers' rights, or unregistered work. this constitutes a serious distortion of the conditions of competition for the self-employed, micro-enterprises and smes. in its 2006 green paper 'modernising labour law to meet the challenges of the 21st century', the european commission asked whether, in order to facilitate the good faith transition from employment to self-employment and vice versa, greater transparency is needed in the legal definitions of employment and self-employment that are in force in the member states. the consultation on this green paper recognised that the lack of an eu-wide definition could cause problems, particularly in cases of crossborder work (and crossborder provision of services).
in writing. − self-employment is becoming more and more popular, especially among young people, in various forms. in europe, selfemployed people now account for over 15% of all employees, or 33 million people. in poland, this group of people is also growing, not always because they want to take advantage of this opportunity. unfortunately, this form of employment is also used to underpay and circumvent workers' rights. these abuses sometimes involve the avoidance of taxes and social security contributions or lead to unregistered work. in my view, however, it is important to note that in practice there are very different situations with self-employment, sometimes it is the only source of income, but sometimes it is an additional source of income for the employed person. in my opinion, this should affect the obligation to pay not only taxes but also contributions. this requirement should in particular apply to persons for whom self-employment is the sole source of income. lack of social security coverage even from the lowest wage in a country can have serious consequences in the future. we must build europe's legislation in such a way that it provides social protection for all, including the growing number of selfemployed.
in writing. - cohesion policy contributes to raising the standard of living of citizens. its programmes have led to a number of jobs, innovation and infrastructure development projects during the past planning period. however, the economic potential of some regions is still significantly below the european average. the growing youth unemployment remains a pressing problem. it is encouraging that the new member states are now at an advanced stage of preparation for the next programming period. this shows how important the european funds are to them. i hope that this will enable them to start projects as soon as possible and that the experience gained in previous years will help to maximise the use of the funds available. i look forward to the timely conclusion of the negotiations on the cohesion policy package.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the readiness of the eu member states to start the new cohesion policy programming period effectively and in a timely manner. cohesion policy contributes to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and helps to combat the economic crisis that has affected most member states. i believe that the financing of investment through cohesion policy funds is particularly important for bridging the gap between the regions of the european union. given that for many countries, funds raised from cohesion policy programmes are the main source of new investment, the responsible national and local authorities need to ensure that the new funding period for 2014-2020 is implemented in a timely manner as soon as possible. i think that for the successful implementation of individual programmes under cohesion policy, it is very important to seek to simplify administrative procedures, both for the beneficiaries and for the managing institutions. i believe that the success of the timely implementation of the new cohesion policy programming period depends on proper coordination and management by the various authorities, at eu, government and regional level.
in writing. − the main objectives of cohesion policy are to increase the competitiveness of regions and stimulate employment growth, and european territorial cooperation, with support for the development of infrastructure and the economic and human potential of the least developed regions of the european union. the resolution states that the region's smart specialisation strategy will be used to finance research and the introduction of new technologies. in times of economic stagnation, it is particularly important to finance the development of new technologies. the way to do this is provided by the adoption of the resolution on the new programming period for cohesion policy, which i supported in the plenary vote.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mr vaughan because i believe that cohesion policy funding, one of the eu's main policies, makes a valuable contribution to helping member states and regions create jobs, increase competitiveness and promote sustainable growth. i am pleased that we have been able to negotiate a number of important improvements for the new cohesion policy package for 2014-2020. i fully support the emphasis on the importance of multi-level governance. this will enable local and regional authorities to participate fully in all the processes of implementation of operational programmes, from preparation to evaluation. implementing projects based on well-functioning partnerships and exchanging common practices is much more effective and produces long-term results. it is also necessary to ensure that the implementation of cohesion policy programmes is as simplified as possible for all authorities and beneficiaries, which will contribute to the efficient implementation of projects while reducing red tape. i am convinced that these simplifications and new ways of managing finances will have a positive impact on local and regional authorities and encourage them to make growth-oriented investments. thank you, sir.
in writing. − what has changed in regional policy in the current funding perspective? in addition to economic and social cohesion (the balancing of the economic and social development of all regions in europe), the issue of territorial cohesion has also been highlighted. territorial cohesion complements and strengthens economic and social cohesion and implies a balanced and uniform development of the entire territory of the european union, including in terms of infrastructure, concentration of human activities and equal opportunities. to a much lesser extent than before, eu grants are a means of redistributing income from rich areas to poor regions, and their main task is now to stimulate innovation and attractiveness of the regions. education and training also play a very important role in regional policy.
in writing. - plastics are a material of great use in companies all over the world. this report highlights the importance of plastic waste as a valuable resource for environmental protection by promoting its reuse, recycling and recovery. in this connection, i believe that action is needed through policies to raise public awareness and to disseminate techniques to encourage the establishment of a recycling culture.
in writing. − plastic waste should be seen as a valuable resource for recycling and reuse. proper management of plastic waste and related support packages can contribute to energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions reduction and the protection of natural resources. to achieve this, clear targets for the collection, sorting and recycling of plastic waste should be set and, above all, efforts to reduce waste should be sustained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on plastic waste because every day i see old packaging, broken electronics and all kinds of other waste in the streets and ditches that could be used more rationally and reused after use. i am pleased that the european commission and the rapporteur have decided to tackle this difficult subject and have proposed a coherent and ambitious plan to reduce waste in our environment. the design has a lot of space for numbers. according to them, the plastics industry already generates a turnover of eur 300 billion and employs 1.54 million people today. according to the employment committee, the industry still has huge growth potential. there is talk of another 400,000 jobs and an additional 42 billion euros in turnover if the ambitious plan proposed by the european commission is implemented. this is a huge opportunity to use sustainable policies to increase employment and improve our environment at the same time. i am particularly pleased to draw attention to the problem of pollution in european waters. this is a major challenge, as waste contributes to the depletion of fish stocks, which causes discontent not only among fishermen but also among consumers.
in writing. − the incineration of plastic bottles, films, plastics of all kinds and waste poses a major threat to the environment and, above all, to human health. waste incineration is the release of gases and dust into the atmosphere, including carbon dioxide and heavy metals. the combustion of waste such as pvc tiles, plastic buckets and pelvic floor boxes in natural conditions (at low temperatures) produces furans and dioxins, amongst others, which are the most toxic chemical synthetics known to man, while 1 kg of polyurethanes, such as those found in sponges, seals or soles, produces 30 to 50 litres of hydrogen cyanide, or prussic acid, one of the most potent poisons. the dioxins produced by the combustion of plastics are chemicals that are dangerous even in trace amounts - they are 10,000 times more toxic than potassium cyanide than, say, tcdd. these compounds are carcinogenic, mutagenic, disrupt the structure of the genetic code, lower immune resistance, impair growth, and cause neurological and hormonal disorders, miscarriages and allergic rashes. the toxic effects of these compounds are slowly damaging many internal organs, such as the liver, kidneys, spinal cord and cerebral cortex. awareness of the harmful effects of releasing waste products into the atmosphere in unsuitable facilities, and warning others, can save us all from the worst of all possible illnesses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the labelling of regional products: towards best practice in rural areas. i believe that the quality label for specific regional products will have a positive impact on the economic development of rural areas and will also help to increase their national and international recognition. in addition, the promotion of local products will make the region more attractive for tourists, which will also allow agro-tourism, rural tourism, food tourism or ecotourism to flourish. to ensure that regional products are better promoted, it is necessary to develop cooperation, to create partnerships between businesses and associations at local, national and even european level. i think it's very difficult for local businesses to succeed and become a recognizable brand internationally in today's world of increasing globalization and increasing competition. the key here is therefore to have the support of the european union and to obtain aid for the development of regional products through the use of the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. − rural areas in the eu have a multifunctional role that goes beyond the development of agriculture. their local potential is also based on service and manufacturing sectors that use local sources and resources. the creation of a european quality label for regional products would not only allow them to be better protected and promoted in the global economy, but would also make a significant contribution to promoting local identity and the natural, historical and cultural heritage of the regions. investing in the positive image of regions within the eu and beyond would also help to improve the competitiveness of rural areas, and the creation of new products and new actions would provide an opportunity for economic recovery, especially for rural areas in difficulty. the creation of a quality label for regional products, such as agricultural products, crafts or handicrafts, is also important for consumers who want to make informed choices about products and services.
in writing. − every company that wants to make the most of its revenue is looking to promote its image and create a recognisable brand. this is linked to high product quality and, as a result, good sales and revenues. when consumers buy food, they are guided by their tastes and preferences. many times, people also choose to buy local products, supporting processing in the region, or choose products from an area that specializes in the production of a given good. that is why i would like to give my full support to the creation of a quality label for regional products. this will make european goods even more recognisable and the uniform labelling will help consumers to identify their favourite product. this will be a great advertisement for the regions and the european union as a whole, both in terms of food promotion and tourism. such marking will also facilitate the identification of the origin of goods in the case of counterfeiting, which causes enormous losses to the whole sector, not just to the perpetrators.
in writing. - the territorial quality mark can be considered as a kind of 'description' of a product or group of products. beyond the composition and properties described on the label, we would learn more directly how the product was produced and that its quality is important to the producer and is a product of which the region is proud. there are certainly regions where it will be more difficult to develop a suitable brand than in others, and where the economy and ingenuity of the inhabitants will have to play a greater role, the growth of which can only be enjoyed. this is an opportunity for different regions, but one that can easily be squandered by poor product promotion, fraud in the food industry leading to a loss of consumer confidence or unfair competition from other regional producers. we should be aware of these kinds of threats and be prepared to deal with them effectively. improving the competitiveness of a region will have to rely heavily on collective organisation, for example through the geographical proximity of the actors. as regards the global market, efforts should be made to ensure that consumers everywhere in the world have the best possible associations when looking at the label informing them that the product they are holding in their hands has been produced in europe. we should do this by acting on quality, starting at the local level.
in writing. − for several decades now, a great many countries, especially the highly developed ones, have shown an interest in food produced by traditional production methods and of known origin. the need of consumers has been reflected in the european common agricultural policy, which can be described as a quality policy. all european legislation is geared towards promoting high-quality food. in 1992, the european union adopted a series of regulations that provide special protection for producers, often small producers, of food whose specific characteristics are linked to the environment in which it is produced and to tradition. a european labelling system has been created to distinguish these exceptional products. its main task is to inform consumers that they are holding a high-quality product in their hands and, moreover, to protect producers from unfair competitors who introduce counterfeits on the market. so far, 36 products have been awarded one of the three european labels in poland, but the list is constantly growing.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, i will speak in english. unfortunately mr juvin, our rapporteur on the concession directive, cannot be here today as we have just heard. he very much apologises that he is not available, due to unforeseen circumstances. he asked me to take the floor on his behalf to share with you a few thoughts, once again ahead of the vote tomorrow on the concession directive and the two public procurement directives. regarding concessions, the rapporteur would like to emphasise that this directive creates a brand new legal framework at eu level. the vote tomorrow in plenary on the concession text will be a strong signal in favour of the reinforcement of the internal market, filling in the gaps left in the legislative framework. the rapporteur, mr juvin, insists on the fact that it was indeed time to take action at eu level: firstly, to clarify the legal framework throughout the eu in view of the multiplication of case law and of the diverging interpretations of key notions between our member states; secondly, to ensure legal security and stability, which is essential for all actors; thirdly, to support public authorities’ action in favour of the development of economic infrastructure and the promotion of public services, especially in a context of economic crisis and budgetary constraints; and fourthly, to ensure transparency and equal treatment between all candidates and fight potential abuses. however, the legislative proposal as initially proposed by the commission was missing the point. concessions are not public contracts. their specificities must be taken into account: more flexibility, more room for manoeuvre for public authorities and for negotiation. this, however, must be achieved taking due account of the need for transparency and equal treatment. two years have now passed since the proposal was published by the commission. a final agreement was reached in trialogue last july. the final text has been clarified and made more readable, more pragmatic, more efficient and more adapted to the specific nature of concessions, which are mostly long-term, complex contracts, often renegotiated several times with a light approach. the public authoritiesʼ freedom of administration is acknowledged. public authorities are free to decide how best to manage the execution of the works and the provision of the services, and they are never obliged to use concessions. they are the ones who decide how to perform their public tasks. other key principles have been inserted or made clearer, such as transparency, equal treatment, the freedom to define services of general economic interest, etc. the final text ensures key factors to guarantee a healthy economic environment, the transparency of the procedure, and equality of treatment of economic operators, with the same rules applying to everyone. finally, the agreement takes into account the complexities of national situations, for instance in terms of public-public cooperation. two more sentences from mr juvin: the text to be voted tomorrow in plenary has survived despite many misunderstandings and false debates. no, the directive is not going to lead to the privatisation of public services. this was an erroneous and abusive interpretation. the award of a concession is not in itself a privatisation, as concessions do not lead to the definitive sale of an activity by the public authority. and the last sentence from mr juvin, mr president. no, the directive will not lead to low-cost public services. this was raised as the usual bogeyman against any attempt by the eu to legislate. but again those allegations are deceitful, as public authorities remain free to decide how to manage their services, as they are also free to define the award criteria, including characteristics linked to the quality of the services. mr juvin thanks all colleagues, all shadows and all the collaborators and cooperators: thank you very much in his name.
mr. chairman, please! the directives in question are a key element of driving the economy within the single market. it's important that we were able to negotiate a compromise, a balanced trilateral agreement. the new rules require simplification and red tape, significantly reducing the costs borne by businesses. they provide greater transparency in the law. the proposals for developing e-procurement, which is expected to become mandatory, are worth considering. the creation of an online central point will enable tenderers to obtain information on the types of documents required and the procedures in each country. the anti-corruption policy has also been reflected in the legislation, as the administration in some countries is systematically subject to external interference. the more detailed rules on subcontracting will, however, contribute to enhancing the safety and legal protection of workers. i believe that the amendment will significantly increase the efficiency of the activities of suppliers and contracting authorities.
madam president! i congratulate the rapporteurs. we are adopting, in my view, one of the most important reports of this term, one of the most important documents. this directive is very important and very necessary. clean, transparent and clear public procurement rules are one of the fundamental guarantees of the rule of law, the principles of integrity in public life and the functioning of democracy. the most important of the solutions adopted here is, in my view, that in public tenders and procurement, not only price but also the quality of the service offered should be the deciding factor, the fact that we are opening up wider possibilities for smes to access public procurement through the possibility of sharing them, and finally the package of anti-corruption solutions and greater concern for avoiding conflicts of interest in public procurement. it's a good and necessary document. i support it and i will vote for it with all my heart.
(...) well, i would like to point out that the current tendering procedures and criteria very often, instead of stimulating the economy, simply inhibit it. these negative experiences call for, in my view, at least two major changes. first, the rejection of the lowest price as the basic criterion in favour of the most economically advantageous offer. price should be one of the important criteria, but it cannot be the decisive criterion, as it is today. second, the scope of the negotiated procedures should be considerably extended among the preferred tendering procedures. it is then possible to enforce quality much better while respecting workers' rights.
the deputy rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i realise that the reform we are discussing here today - the public procurement reform - is important, not just where it is hotly debated, namely in the malopolska and świętokrzyskie regions of poland, where i was elected, but for the whole of the european union. this is a very important reform for all of us, because it is our common money that is being spent here. we just heard that public institutions spend about 19% of gdp on public procurement. it's a lot of money, and that's why it's so important that this money is spent well. i am glad that after two years we have finally managed to reach an agreement on this matter and to bring about a law which, firstly, simplifies these provisions. i therefore join the voice of my colleagues, and above all the voice of the rapporteur, mr philippe juvén, who is not here, in calling for a vote tomorrow on this reform. secondly, this reform removes the anachronistic criterion of the lowest price, which mr zemke has just mentioned, and the most advantageous offer is a very good solution. thirdly, i would like to draw attention to the fact that it will now be easier for contracting authorities to divide contracts into parts and here we are helping small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be easier to participate in tenders. fourth, the procurement process will be conducted online for the most part. i would like to point out again what commissioner barnier said: this will save us between 80 and 100 billion euros. we must pay particular attention to such aspects now. it is very important that these rules are quickly put into effect, quickly introduced into the legislation of the member states. it's important to do it very skillfully, so that we don't make life harder for entrepreneurs, but make it easier. the same goes for local government. i would like to conclude by congratulating once again and thanking all those who have worked on these solutions, namely the european commission, the council and finally you, the rapporteurs, the co-rapporteurs and all those who have taken part in the work.
on behalf of the ppe group. ... the european union's legislative initiative to ensure greater symmetry in access to public procurement markets between the european union and its trading partners should be supported. this requires full application of the principle of reciprocity and greater opening of the public procurement markets of the countries with which the european union is currently negotiating free trade agreements. as a large proportion of third countries apply more extensive measures restricting access to their national procurement markets, eu economic operators, goods and services have less access to third country procurement markets than third country economic operators to the european union's procurement markets. in addition, many third countries do not show a willingness to open their markets to international competition. however, at union level, there are no appropriate mechanisms that would effectively encourage third countries to open their national markets. it is therefore necessary to introduce an instrument to enforce mutual commitments entered into in the framework of agreements and to influence the countries with which the european union is negotiating. the question must be asked whether the solutions proposed in the draft regulation will ensure that the objectives set out above are achieved. i have a number of doubts, there are a number of controversial issues. i would like to thank mr caspar, the rapporteur, for trying to take account of a number of contradictory points in this extremely difficult and important dossier. i think in many ways it was not possible. i hope that the negotiations with the council and the commission will lead to the document that the european union needs.
in writing. the amendments to the public procurement directive discussed today set the right direction for the revision of these provisions. the proposal to replace the lowest price criterion with the most economically advantageous offer criterion deserves particular support. this change will result in the exclusion from the tendering procedure of those tenders in which the costs of carrying out the investment have been drastically underestimated in order to obtain the contract at the lowest price. the lowest price criterion not only restricted competition on the market but also in many cases made the final execution of the investment almost impossible, precisely because of the unnaturally low costs. therefore, the introduction of the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender, the significant simplification of tendering procedures and the possibility of submitting tenders electronically will reduce the costs of preparing a tender and will make it easier for many undertakings, especially small and medium-sized ones, to access public procurement. while supporting these amendments, i also call on the commission to make every effort to ensure that the proposed solutions are rapidly implemented in all member states, so that the same rules governing public procurement apply in the community market and that all undertakings, regardless of their size, have the same conditions for participating in tenders.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i cannot be suspected of being a lobbyist for gmos, because i have repeatedly spoken in this chamber in favour of a gmo-free europe, of not promoting gmo crops and of restricting the use of gmo feed. i support the rapporteur on this point. if we don't want gmos in our honey, we shouldn't grow gmos. i don't think you can create an artificial concept and call an artificial ingredient something that is a natural ingredient, because it's bees, not humans, that contribute to the pollen in the honey. that's not the way to reduce the risk of gmos. i'm all for restricting gmo crops. we have made considerable progress because the member states have the right to decide for themselves. some countries have decided to do so. this is the right way to go, and i support the rapporteur on this point.
madam president! we are actually arguing and debating today over a court decision that has ruled that pollen is an ingredient. in chemistry, as a science, we talk about compounds or products that have specific components. we know that these components are a whole, but they can be changed at will. and i have a question for those of you who have doubts: can we change the pollen content in honey? can we determine the exact ingredients, adding and changing the amount? i don't think he did. it's a natural component. the natural ingredients of honey are nectar and pollen, which are brought by bees. i can't imagine there's any scientific evidence that says that bees will be contributing 1% or maybe 0.5% of that pollen. i don't think that kind of nonsense is going to happen. we have to accept that honey is a single-ingredient product, and since it is a single-ingredient product, there is a principle of labelling such products and informing our citizens. i think we should focus on these things that are really important to honey producers, to beekeepers, to fight diseases like warts and other diseases, to focus on how to make our environment green, how to reduce chemicals, and to put money into research like this, rather than just looking at how much pollen is in a batch of honey or a hive of honey, because if we do, it's going to be a big, fat nonsense. everyone will laugh, even the locals will say that we obviously have too much time and we really should focus on the more important things.
mr. chairman, please! today's discussion is really about the controversy and the controversy that is about genetically modified food and genetically modified crops. it seems that this is the essence of the matter, and it is hardly surprising that some consumers are afraid that they will have to consume products (without knowing it) produced by the cultivation of genetically modified plants. the dispute is therefore relevant and, on the one hand, the expectations of the beekeeping community, which would not like to incur additional costs, must be understood, but on the other hand the expectations of consumers, who would like to be sure that the honey is produced in areas free from genetically modified crops, must also be respected. i think that we should also give serious thought to the compromise that may be reached in the future.
member of the commission. − mr president, i was going to say that it was not exactly a debate flowing with milk and honey, but i would nevertheless like to clarify certain points. first of all – and i am clarifying these points, because they were mentioned – non-authorised gmo will not be allowed in our food chain. i am saying this because during the debate there was some confusion, with some people saying that we were going to allow non-authorised gmos. so the presence of no non-authorised gmos will be allowed. that legislation already exists, and it will remain. secondly, we are speaking here about a 0.9 % presence of adventitious gmo, that is to say that the presence has to be adventitious for the 0.9 labelling. if it is not adventitious, then the threshold is zero. so each time we refer to labelling and 0.9 % we are referring to an accidental presence of gmo in pollen in honey. now, as was rightly said, i believe by the rapporteur, the real difference from a practical point of view is that, if we consider pollen to be an ingredient of honey, then the 0.9 % of our legislation applies to the pollen. so, when we say 0.9 %, that is 0.9 % of what? if we consider pollen to be an ingredient, then the 0.9 % applies to the pollen, while if we consider pollen to be a natural constituent of honey – as i and the commission believe, and as most of you have said – then you calculate the 0.9 % of the labelling legislation on the honey itself and not just on the pollen. the error which i think some have committed – with due respect – is that first they decide which kind of labelling and which kind of 0.9 % they want, and then they work, illogically, backwards to come to the conclusion that it is an ingredient, while logic indicates that the process should be the opposite. first we decide whether pollen is a natural component constituent or an ingredient, and then we apply the legislation which we already have to that conclusion. as most speakers said, we cannot tamper with nature. i cannot exhibit before you a document indicating what the laws of nature are, because those laws of nature are, by their very nature, unwritten. but the beekeepers say that the pollen is a constituent. those who are in this business say that it is a constituent. so how can we change something which, in the nature of things, indicates that pollen is a constituent? against this argument, some members have pointed out that the court of justice has ruled otherwise. first of all, the court of justice observed that there is no provision in the law which says whether pollen is an ingredient or a constituent. i could have counter-argued that it is the natural way of things; but it took this positivist approach that there is nothing in the law because, had there been an indication – a definition of pollen in the law – as we are determining now, it would have decided otherwise. then, in the absence of a law, the court decided that, in its opinion – even though the codex alimentarius indicates otherwise – it is an ingredient and not a constituent. this does not preclude the legislators of this institution from clarifying this point and saying that, according to the laws of nature, it is a constituent and not an ingredient. so you do not undermine a court judgment because you clarify the law and fill in a loophole which existed before. after all, it is not the court which has to legislate, but the legislator and, as we know, the commission has the exclusive right of initiative in this respect. so, gm pollen needs to be authorised before this amendment of the directive, and after the amendment. there is no change in that. normal labelling rules will apply. they applied before the directive and they will apply after the amendment of this directive. also, as i said before, non-authorised gm will not be allowed at all. in conclusion, let me reiterate that i very much hope to count on the support of the members to open the interinstitutional negotiations as soon as possible. these could then pave the way to a first reading agreement under the greek presidency and during the mandate of this parliament.
in writing. the issue of the safety of food produced and delivered to consumers in the eu is of paramount importance. it is important to identify and identify risks to the life and health of consumers linked to the food they consume. these discussions may sometimes seem irrelevant to outsiders, but it is difficult to talk about secondary issues when it comes to the safety of products consumed daily by millions of europeans. honey is widely available, popular and generally perceived as natural and healthy in the eu, and our producers benefit from a rich tradition of beekeeping. we should avoid statements that could cast any unfounded accusation on them as to the quality of their product. it should also be recalled that honey is not genetically modified and can only contain very small amounts of pollen from genetically modified plants, up to a maximum of 0,005% 0,05%. honey is made from the nectar of flowers, and the fact that bees also carry pollen between flowers is a mechanism of nature. so pollen is a natural component of honey, not a constituent of honey. but in discussing this matter, let us try to maintain a healthy and reasonable balance. let us not forget that producers and consumers all over europe are watching.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. good work by our colleague, mrs macovei! - i'm not going to. we're talking about the hercules program, the third one, and i'll remind you of the saying, nec hercules contra plures, which means that even the strongest hercules can be overwhelmed by the overwhelming number of opponents, and of course this program has specific opponents. they're not dwarves. there's no hiding the fact that there are entire lobbies in europe that are working to make this smuggling and counterfeiting of goods as big as possible. i just wanted to say that even among the countries that are candidates for the european union, there are countries that are based on smuggling. i'm all for welcoming these countries, but i'm all for setting the bar high. of course, this programme is necessary, although i agree with mr geier that the member states should do the main work.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about two things: first, the financial risk and the financial loss, but also the economic damage that the european union suffers when we don't protect our borders and our economic model, including price-setting. it seems that the key thing is to balance the risks first. those who engage in smuggling first evaluate their chances - what they risk, how much they can earn, how often they can be caught in the act. so detectability is a critical issue. if our system is a system that detects, then eventually the process itself will stop paying off, because this is a profit- and risk-based business. it is important that we also distinguish between countries that are exposed to this type of activity. the countries neighbouring russia are listed here: belarus, ukraine, poland. the advantage is that we can diversify the financing so that we can finance both the purchase and the operation. we've also heard here that some devices work for a short period of time, six months, and then they stop. this is because we still have too many opponents of economic order who are involved in this practice (supporting corruption and all kinds of activities that promote it). remember, you have to make lists of people who often act as smugglers, lists of vehicles, lists of transporters. we should also avoid a pricing system that creates an incentive for smuggling.
the policy of combating corruption, fraud and smuggling is of the utmost importance for the interests of the individual budgets of the member states and for the interests of the european union as a whole. this is especially important when we hear of the growing number of smuggling abuses from eastern european countries. this is particularly important when we hear about the misuse of european funds in the implementation of various investments in individual member states. it is enough to mention the information that, for example, in my country, poland, there was a large abuse of budgetary, internal, national, polish, but also european funds, a great corruption scandal in the field of informatization, which was supposed to be a great opportunity for a leap in civilization in poland. and that is why the policy of the european union and the individual member states must be very consistent. abuse must be fought very decisively. the principle of 'zero tolerance' is necessary here, but to do this effectively, good practices must be introduced, information must be exchanged, training must be provided and the quality of the staff involved in combating this type of abuse must be improved. and of course, beyond the solutions that the hercules programme is talking about, it is also necessary to take care to raise the level of internal law enforcement, because their cooperation is extremely important. the level of the judiciary, the level of the prosecutor's office, so that it is possible to effectively, quickly and almost inevitably detect this kind of phenomenon and then punish the guilty and responsible for crimes and abuses.
madam president! this is an opportunity to mention something other than the tachograph. the tachograph is an external control for the driver. the recent terrible car accidents with fatalities caused by drunk drivers have led me to say that we must also start a debate on whether it is not worthwhile to install alcohol dispensers in cars (as is already the case in some countries of the union) so that a driver who has had a pleasant evening with wine and then does not know whether he has too much alcohol in his blood can control himself. so it's not the same thing as a tachograph, but it can help a driver determine whether or not he's fit to drive. otherwise, we'll have terrible accidents that cost us a lot of money, and human lives can't be restored.
today's discussion is about a device that is primarily used to monitor the time drivers spend on the road. the proposed changes are designed to make fraud more difficult by introducing new smart tachographs in vehicles over 7.5 tonnes. these functions will be further extended and the tachographs will be based on the gps system. but i want to draw your attention to something very important. all these changes are to be implemented within 15 years, but it will take three years to bring the first smart tachographs to european markets. so in other words, the whole process will take 18 years. it's been a long time. i'm assuming that by that time, there will be several new, next-generation tachographs.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - madam president! - what are you doing? i find in the draft report the essential elements which i had indicated in the draft opinion for the committee on the environment. one of the main barriers to reindustrialisation in europe is the rising cost of energy for industry, which is making european companies less competitive on the global market. opponents of a new industrial strategy for europe doubt that energy prices can be brought down, and say that we are doomed to see them rise. the united states has proven that it is possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while reducing energy costs. in addition, existing energy and climate change legislation is subject to frequent changes, with negative impacts particularly on the most energy-intensive industrial sectors. one example is the recent decision by parliament on administrative interference in the emissions trading system. this leads not only to a loss of competitiveness but also to the relocation of production outside the european union, with all the negative consequences, both climatic and social. industrial policy must take account of europe's energy security.
madam president! the report under discussion is essential for the future of the european union. the future of the maritime economy, and therefore the future of shipbuilding, is particularly worthy of mention. the european commission's policy has contributed to the destruction of this industry, as exemplified by the closure of shipyards in poland. as a result of this action, nearly 90,000 people lost their jobs. this has led to a deep economic collapse and serious difficulties in regional development. this is especially true in my hometown of szczecin, where the shipyard was destroyed. the main objective should be to establish a common policy giving equal opportunities for the development of this sector in all the countries of the european union. i therefore call on the commission to take action to rebuild the shipping industry in europe, including in poland. this should be the main objective of the fight against the economic crisis, because it will guarantee thousands of jobs.
madam president! europe is losing its industry. corporations offload it, multiply the profits. unemployment is rising. rising powers are aggressively taking over the production areas that europe was known for. so is reindustrialisation real? what is the structure of production in europe? will there be a return to an autonomous national economy? europe is losing competitiveness. the cost of energy, materials, raw materials and production is increasing. they're higher than our global competitors. this can only be remedied by product innovation and energy, material and organisational efficiency technologies and efficient business procedures. an industry dominated by corporations is not conducive to the smes with which it competes. this is why a stimulating industrial policy is needed to revive small and medium-sized local producers based on local raw materials, traditions, work culture and local demand. it should also be a policy to stop the escape of corporate industry from europe.
the crisis has made europe aware of the great need for reindustrialisation. we realized that the policy that we had been pursuing had not been well thought out. this is particularly true in various aspects, such as the energy-intensive industry. the industry is certainly losing out on what often seems to be an ideologically sound but economically irrational low-emission policy. unfortunately, the policy of reducing co2 emissions inevitably leads to a decline in the competitiveness of european industry. we must draw the lesson from this: if others do not want to join our efforts, we cannot bring about a situation where this policy, which is so globally ineffective, will certainly reduce the competitiveness (and very much so) of european industry. finally, we must move from words to deeds when it comes to removing the barriers and red tape that are driving up the cost of doing business in europe. i think we talk too much and do too little, and this parliament is really about making laws that raise the cost of doing business.
madam president! the anecdote says that a politician is a man who solves problems he creates himself. the same can be said of the european union today. we must break the chains we have put on ourselves. the first example is from the shore: too restrictive rules on public aid, which resulted in german and french shipyards surviving and polish shipyards failing. and we have less industry. tax harmonization will also kill competition. let's not touch it. finally, the cream of the crop of the energy and climate package. what kind of crazy person came up with the idea of europe bleeding to death, of europe spending billions of euros to reduce co2 emissions, when most of the world - brazil, russia, china, india, the united states, canada - don't care about the kyoto protocol and emit more co2? we kill each other, we bleed each other, we destroy our competitiveness, we destroy our efficiency. first, let's break down the barriers in our own heads and in european legislation, and then let's start reindustrialising the continent.
madam president, i would like to daw the prime minister’s attention to three very concrete issues. the first is our concern with regard to the modification of the european union solidarity fund regulation. it was established following the devastating floods in central europe back in 2002, and since then not even minor changes have been made to the regulation governing the fund, in spite of its shortcomings and new needs. now we have on the table the new commission proposal to improve it by making it quicker to respond, more visible to citizens, clearer and simpler to use. the committee on regional development will adopt its mandate next week, but we know that the council has not yet agreed its position. i would like to ask the presidency to join parliament in sparing no effort to have the new regulation adopted before the end of this legislature. my second point is on delegated and implementing acts for the cohesion policy regulatory package. let me just express my expectation – which i am sure you share with me – that both institutions, while preserving their rights and duties, will deal with those acts in the swiftest way possible. we cannot afford any delay in cohesion policy implementation. my third point is on the revision of the balance of payments facility. as the presidency concentrates on the completion of negotiations on the single resolution mechanism, it will be crucial not to forget about this important dossier on financial assistance to non-euro member states. if we want to encourage opt-ins to the banking union, then putting in place a fiscal backstop for these member states is of the utmost importance. the file could not be finalised by the lithuanian presidency due to the resistance emanating from a small number of important member states, and i hope the greek presidency will manage to move things forward.
in writing. greece takes over the helm of the european union at a specific time. on the one hand, there are many indications that, after a few difficult years, the community is slowly emerging from the crisis and the first signs of improvement are appearing. the joint efforts and determination of member states have led to the strengthening of economic and fiscal policies, which are already showing signs of improvement in public finances. on the other hand, this does not translate into employment growth. i therefore think it is right that the presidency has made the fight against unemployment, economic growth and the improvement of social cohesion one of its main priorities. the improving economic situation is a real opportunity for improvement, but it will not be enough on its own. greece faces the very difficult task of ensuring that growth translates into new jobs. i am therefore pleased that the presidency is planning a series of actions to support entrepreneurs and young people, who have been particularly hard hit by the crisis.
in writing. − the establishment of the responsibilities of the various parliamentary committees will certainly improve the work of the european parliament in the next term and will allow the work on eu legislation to be better adapted to the challenges facing the european union. i welcome the focus of the internal market and consumer protection committee's competence on the functioning of the internal market, including the digital market, and on the removal of the remaining barriers and administrative burdens, and on the need to promote and protect the economic interests of over 500 million consumers in the eu. in times of crisis, it is also important to improve the issues related to the formulation, implementation and monitoring of the union's common commercial policy and its external economic relations, and i therefore welcome the clarification of the international trade commission's responsibilities for establishing, monitoring, concluding and pursuing bilateral and multilateral trade agreements governing economic and trade relations with third countries and regional organisations.
in writing. − the european commission submits a legislative proposal to parliament. the parliamentary committee responsible shall appoint a rapporteur member who shall prepare a draft report on the proposal submitted by the european commission. individual members and other parliamentary committees may also be asked for their opinions. the rapporteur presents the draft report to a committee for discussion, after considering the amendments submitted, the draft report is put to the vote in committee, the political groups assess the report in terms of their interests, the report is then discussed in parliament's plenary session and, after any amendments have been made, put to the vote. the adopted document shall state parliament's position on the matter. the european parliament currently has 754 members, elected for five years by direct universal suffrage on the basis of proportional representation. meps are independent parliamentarians, not representatives of individual countries (they are even elected by political group rather than by nationality). they are not bound by any orders or instructions from their own countries and thus enjoy parliamentary privileges and immunities.
in writing. − the civil protection mechanism was created by council decision 2001/792/ec, euratom of 23 october 2001 establishing a community mechanism to facilitate enhanced cooperation in interventions to support civil protection, as amended by council decision 2007/779/ec, euratom establishing a community civil protection mechanism. the financing of the mechanism was guaranteed by council decision 2007/162/ec, euratom of 5 march 2007 establishing a financial instrument for civil protection, which provided for the provision of financial assistance both as a contribution to improving the effectiveness of the response to major crises and to improving measures to prevent and ensure preparedness in all types of crisis, including the continuation of measures previously taken under council decision 1999/847/ec of 9 december 1999 establishing a community action programme in the field of civil protection. the financial instrument shall expire on 31 december 2013.
in writing. −the security of the eu-russia 'common neighbourhood' depends on many factors. the european union acts as a stabiliser, while the russian federation seeks to maintain a state of destabilisation in order to have greater influence on the six countries of the region. the eu values include democracy, the rule of law and the development of civil societies. the european union through its enlargements in 2004 and 2007 has moved geographically closer to a region of fragile stability, with serious political, economic and security disturbances. on the other hand, these countries are the so-called "near abroad" for the russian federation, which is treated as a buffer zone separating russia from dangerous international phenomena such as terrorism, the expansion of hostile military-political alliances, instability in the middle east region and armed conflicts. the region is therefore a key element of the security policy of the russian federation. the six countries in the eu-russia common neighbourhood are geopolitically disadvantaged, between two powerful international actors with different aims and interests. this affects the security policies of these countries, which have a choice between an alliance with russia (belarus, armenia), euro-atlantic aspirations (ukraine, georgia) or neutrality (moldova, azerbaijan), with foreign policy of these countries depending on internal conditions and these countries quite often change coalitions and priorities in foreign policy (ukraine, moldova).
in writing. − the euro coin series comprises eight different denominations: 1, 2, 5, 10, 20 and 50 cents and 1 and 2 euro coins. each coin has a common side (reverse) and a national side (reverse). the national side indicates the country in which the coin was issued. each of the 16 euro area countries accepts all euro coins, regardless of the denomination and national side. the 'common side' of the coins (reverse) is designed in three designs, depending on the denomination of the coins. all three designs represent a map of europe and symbolise the unity of the european union, and were designed by luc luycx of the royal mint of belgium. the obverse shows the country's national emblem surrounded by the twelve stars of the european union
in writing. - relations with asean have so far been overshadowed by relations with key players such as china, japan and india. but it is a region with enormous and steadily growing economic potential, as even the us administration has seen, as it takes its engagement in southeast asia more and more seriously. the political integration of these countries is making considerable progress, facilitating the evolution towards democracy. remember, until recently, some of these countries were ruled in an authoritarian way. the eu has also been active in the field of security, through its efforts to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region and its promotion of the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula. future partnership and cooperation agreements must take account of mutual interests in a global context and of increased union activity.
in writing. − the huge disparities between member states raise doubts about the development of regionalism along european lines. the asean communiqué on the desire to create an aec (asean economic community) by 2020 initially drew positive comparisons with earlier forms of the eu. a closer look at the two organizations, however, reveals numerous structural differences. the eec was a customs union with a leading, supranational body, which meant that the member states delegated control over part of their economies to it. as members of the customs union, the member states have adopted the principles of free trade in respect of all products from other eec countries and have applied a common customs policy towards other countries outside the customs union. but asean countries are not willing to hand over their national economic policies to some supranational body. this means that asean is trying to establish a common market without creating a customs union or any supranational power. moreover, unlike the eu, the political systems of asean countries range from absolute monarchies to military juntas to one-party communist states. with such divergences, political integration of countries like indonesia, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, thailand, and more recently brunei, vietnam, laos, myanmar, seems impossible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on tachographs and the social legislation relating to road transport. the proposed regulation amends and updates the 1985 rules on tachographs, which are devices widely used and used in road transport to monitor the working time of drivers. the new entries relate to smart tachographs which will have two additional functions: long-distance communication and recording of vehicle location data. the estimated time to market is 36 months. the regulation provides for an exemption from the obligation to use the equipment in question for lorries of less than 7,5 tonnes used for the transport of materials or equipment for the driver's use within a distance of 100 km from the company's registered office. i believe that the use of new technology in tachographs will minimise fraud, reduce administrative burdens and strengthen social standards.
in writing. - the report by mrs ţicău on the so-called smart tachographs is a good report, linked to the need to replace the 1985 regulation. its main objective is to prevent the manipulation of tachographs, while strengthening the rules on social protection of drivers so that their working and rest times are respected. in addition, the overarching objective is to improve road safety in europe. the so-called smart tachographs are to have two new functions: remote communication for monitoring purposes and the ability to record vehicle location data, which has sparked controversy in the field of data protection. the negotiations with the council were long, but the rapporteur managed to strike a satisfactory balance between improving the working conditions of drivers on the one hand and the issue of data protection on the other. it is thanks to the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the ep that the provisions on driver data protection have been included in the document. the negotiated proposal met with my approval.
in writing. − is the new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport and amending council regulations (eec) no 3821/85 and (eec) no 2135/98 and repealing regulation (eec) no 3820/85 in the interests of polish road hauliers? in answer to that question, it is worth recalling the primary objective pursued by the eu legislator, namely to improve the social conditions of drivers and road safety. the provisions concerning the maximum daily, weekly and two-week driving periods and the requirements concerning the minimum breaks and rest periods are designed to ensure that every driver performing a transport operation has adequate rest. more rest, more sleep, less fatigue and safer driving. the new rules are widely believed to reduce the overuse of transport drivers and the phenomenon of falling asleep at the wheel. as you know, this is one of the major causes of road accidents, including bus accidents, the tragic consequences of which have been reported in the media. the cost of road accidents in poland is estimated to be as high as 2,5% of gdp and is borne by the whole of society, including road hauliers and drivers themselves. it is in the interest of all of us to improve road safety.
in writing. - concessions are an important form of public-private partnerships. the possibility of granting concessions gives the public authority an important instrument with which to carry out works or provide services. i supported the report because it provides a legal framework applicable to each type of concession, taking into account the specific features of the instrument. however, concessions are different from traditional public procurement and therefore a separate regulation in this area is justified. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. however, the economic operator gains the possibility to operate construction works or to provide services which may be remunerated. the selection criteria are important and should be the most economically advantageous. this approach will not require public authorities to make their choice based on the lowest price, but should focus on the quality/price ratio. concessions are already widely used in the member states, although the definitions of this instrument vary considerably from one country to another. the new rules give us legal certainty and stability. the main objective of the reform was to improve the way public money is spent, and the rules adopted will lead to a more rational use of public funds, to the benefit of both businesses and society.
in writing. - we need to cut red tape, make things easier. the commission's dead man's mania for co2. we need a uniform legal framework for concessions, but we also need flexibility. i can't go into details. it's important to have goals, but you have to be careful not to make it too complicated. we shouldn't lower the threshold from €5 million to €2.5 million. the higher threshold supports smes. it's important to raise the bar. it reduces administrative costs. simplification and legal certainty are essential. some of the provisions are contained in the public procurement documents. the important question is the definition of the concession. the threshold issues are still to be analyzed. there are amendments for smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the directive on public procurement. i support the rapporteur's suggestion to specify and clarify the requirements contained in the technical specifications of the environmental or safety requirements of the contract in question. in addition, the rules on grounds for refusal of a contract should take account of shortcomings in the areas of social, labour and environmental law. i agree with the rapporteur that member states should also impose on contracting entities an injunction to verify the works commissioned by the successful tenderer. we also need to eliminate the lowest price as the deciding factor for the selection of the most advantageous offer and replace this criterion with the most economically advantageous offer, where social and environmental aspects are also taken into account. i believe that in order to improve the supervision and verification of legal criteria, member states should have appropriate authorities to deal with compliance with the rules governing public procurement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the directive because i believe that in public procurement it is also necessary to maintain the high quality of the services provided or the goods ordered, which was often impossible with the decisive criterion of the lowest price. therefore, the possibility of choosing the best price/quality ratio is a good solution and in many cases allows better money to be spent than with the lowest price criterion.
in writing. - the report adopted today is not only very important for public authorities, but above all it is very good news for businesses. the public procurement procedures are to be simplified, speeded up and cheaper. contracting entities will be encouraged to divide the contract into lots in order to facilitate access to contracts for companies, especially the smallest ones. the proposed simplifications will not only allow large companies to participate in tenders, but also give smes wider access to them. the rules will thus increase the participation of smes in the public procurement market. in working on the package, i stressed that procurement must become more accessible to smes and i am glad that the new rules take this into account. an important change is the provision on the selection criterion, which provides that the lowest price will no longer be treated as the main criterion. the most economically advantageous bid will be selected, not the cheapest. it'll rule out proposals that are cheap because they undercut quality, for example. small entrepreneurs are also exempted from the requirement to provide various types of documents before they enter the procedure. they will also be able to receive information and participate in the tender electronically. i think it's an attractive and less expensive option. i supported the report because it is good for european companies and our economy.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr tarabella's report on public procurement. we are all aware of the role and importance of public procurement in our economy, as it is one of the market tools needed to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i fully agree with the rapporteur's proposal to make public spending more efficient and effective by facilitating access for smes. the public procedures must be speeded up and simplified in order to implement, in a fully transparent manner, the projects which are useful for the growth and development of our territories.
in writing. − after two years of debate, the european parliament finally gave its consent to the new public procurement rules. these rules are intended to enable public authorities to ensure that social criteria are respected in order to avoid the increasingly frequent situations in which social dumping is involved. the new rules should end the dominance of the lowest price as the main criterion for public procurement. the authorities will now be able to take into account criteria such as quality and environmental impact, in addition to the social criteria already mentioned. the main criterion should henceforth be the best results that can be achieved by awarding a public contract to the undertaking concerned. these are just a few of the many advantages of a very good report that i have endorsed.
in writing. − creating the best possible conditions for competition and maximising the participation of the sme sector in public procurement work as subcontractors seems to be the right direction. we are talking about large sums of money, almost one fifth of the union's gdp, and therefore measures which can have a real impact on the economic development of the community countries. contracting authorities need to be adequately prepared to manage such resources effectively in new circumstances which may require them to be more flexible in order to give procedures a chance to respond to real needs. as regards subcontracting, clarity should be ensured and tasks, areas and responsibilities defined. where possible and taking into account the specific nature of the contract, it is appropriate to identify and identify subcontractors. it would also be important to demonstrate the scope of the duties and responsibilities, which would have a positive impact on the performance of the accepted contract. the simplification of the directive itself with a clear list of sanctions for non-compliance will also provide an additional incentive to achieve certain objectives. it is worth highlighting the role that public procurement should play in promoting innovation. given the current direction of eu policy, environmental protection and broadly sustainable development objectives are among the most relevant. however, the issue of public procurement should not affect the freedom of local authorities and other contracting authorities.
in writing. − the main legal acts adopted at eu level governing public procurement policy are: directive 2004/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 31 march 2004 on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts and directive 2004/17/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 31 march 2004 coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. the directives explain how contracting authorities can contribute to the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development by indicating the environmental criteria for evaluating tenders, environmental management systems and measures, including the eco-label, that can be used for this purpose.
in writing. − public procurement plays a key role in improving the business environment and the conditions for innovation in enterprises. the revision of the public procurement directives was necessary in order to simplify the rules, make them more effective and efficient and better adapt them to the changing political, social and economic situation. in order to exploit the full potential of public procurement in the single market to promote sustainable development, employment and social inclusion, the new rules simplify procedures, make them more flexible and accessible, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. in this context, the institution of subcontracting is particularly important. but it has to work. it is in the interest of all undertakings and contracting entities to ensure that quality work is carried out in compliance with labour law when contracts are awarded. the division of the contract into parts and the subcontracting institution will allow more smes to participate in the contract and also ensure that they receive remuneration. member states may decide to pay the remuneration directly to the subcontractor. given that public procurement represents 19% of the union's gdp, the effective transformation and implementation of procurement rules will have a significant impact on stimulating investment in the economy.
in writing. − public procurement plays an important role in the overall economic growth of the european union. european public authorities spend nearly 18% of gdp on supplies, construction and services. the existing public procurement directives, in particular directives 2004/17/ec and 2004/18/ec, are the result of a long process which began in 1971 with the adoption of directive 71/305/eec. by guaranteeing transparent and non-discriminatory procedures, the directives aim in particular to ensure that economic operators can fully benefit from the fundamental freedoms of competition in the field of public procurement.
mr. chairman, please! at almost 20% of the eu's gdp, public procurement contributes to economic growth and employment. the commission's proposal, on the other hand, provides for restricting access to the market for non-eu companies, which, in my view, may unfortunately result in a reduction in growth potential. in a situation where economic indicators in many member states continue to be a concern, the opening up of the european public procurement market and greater competitiveness seem to be the desirable solution. the improvement of the functioning of the mechanism in this area can be more effectively achieved through more detailed bilateral trade agreements. however, potential retaliatory measures by third countries that are critical to the union could have the opposite effect. some of the report's recommendations only add to the administrative burden and increase bureaucracy.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. this is a very important regulation, which for the first time comprehensively covers the european union's external policy on public procurement. there's a lot to fight for, especially in a time of crisis. nearly 85% of the european public procurement market is open to third countries. what is missing is this proportion and balance of openness in the other direction. by comparison, the united states opens only 32% of its market, and japan opens only 28%. there is a lot to fight for, while respecting, of course, the very important exceptions, especially in the public sector, in industries such as telecommunications or postal services, where we want to protect our own market. there are also issues of exemptions in the area of armaments and this is a very important element of national policies. that is why i think this regulation is extremely important and extremely necessary. i have my fingers crossed for the european commission, for good negotiations that will allow us to strike a balance in openness in mutual public procurement in europe and beyond.
in writing. - trade needs effective legal instruments to be competitive. i supported the new rules because they will allow more european companies to reach markets outside the eu. the principle of reciprocity should be the basis here, i.e. access to the eu public procurement market should be restricted for third country entities that do not provide similar access to eu companies. of course, the opening up of markets is very important, but it must not lead to a reduction in the competitiveness of european companies. this is also a matter of fundamental importance for the internal market. the rules demonstrate a determination to ensure equal treatment and therefore a level playing field for operators in today's global trading environment. the eu is facing increased and fiercer competition from its trading partners. however, it does not close its own public procurement market to foreign contractors, but demands equal market access for its own contractors and goods abroad. the eu has also been a major player in the international market for electricity, and has been a major supplier of electricity to the eu since the early 1990s. this fragmented approach, which has been followed by various member states where access to the national public procurement market for goods and services has been blocked by individual decisions, will change as a result of the report adopted today. the centralised system will ensure uniform treatment of goods and services originating in third countries.
in writing. − the main objective of the legislative proposal is to improve the conditions under which eu companies can apply for public contracts in third countries. the rules contained in the above regulation will enable the european commission to have a real impact on negotiations with other countries on the wider opening of their public procurement markets to eu companies, including polish ones. in addition, the document sets out clear rules on access to the eu public procurement market for suppliers, services and contractors from third countries, both those with which the eu has concluded international public procurement agreements and those with which such agreements have not been concluded. this is intended to facilitate access to the eu public procurement market for non-eu contractors. why do we need new eu regulations? this regulation implements the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (com (2010) 2020) and the europe 2020 flagship initiative integrated industrial policy in the globalisation era (com (2010) 614) and also implements the single market act (com (2011) 206). the document is also a strategic initiative of the commission's 2011 work programme (com (2010) 623 final).
mr. chairman, please! we should all be concerned about promoting healthy food and healthy products. of course, honey is one such natural product, and one cannot disagree with the european court of justice's ruling that defines pollen as an ingredient. it's obviously a component and all the experts are talking about it. the introduction of certain rules on very expensive tests would hit hundreds of thousands of natural honey producers in europe. poland is one of them. my country is gmo-free, and in fact, many thousands of beekeepers produce honey naturally. we know these products are healthy. of course, the competition is not easy. we know that europe, including my country, is awash with honey from china, honey from south america, which undoubtedly contains a lot of gmo elements, so we should increase the restrictions on the import of this product and protect domestic producers.
in writing. - we've all had honey at some point. we appreciate its taste and nutritional value, realizing that it is a natural product, extremely healthy and valuable. it is produced by bees that collect and process the nectar of flowers, and the pollen from the plants that reaches it allows the origin of the honey to be defined and to determine whether it is natural or artificial honey. it is pollen that is the main subject of this report. the court of justice of the european union has ruled that pollen is a constituent of honey and not a natural component of honey. it justified this decision by the fact that the honeycombing of honeycombs in the production process could be used by beekeepers to deliberately increase the pollen content of the final product. at the same time, the judgment drew attention to the distinction between honey containing pollen from genetically modified plants and honey containing pollen from non-genetically modified plants. if we were to accept the court's decision, it would require changes in the labelling of honey and costly research to obtain accurate information on the pollen content and origin. this would certainly result in the withdrawal of many beekeepers, especially those who produce honey on a small scale, and in an increase in final retail prices.
in writing. - for a producer to use the name honey, the final product must consist of honey only! according to the eu directive, honey with additives cannot be called honey. you can easily call it a honey mix. the trade inspectorate follows these guidelines. in addition, the standards also provide for no more than 20% water in honey. let us remember this especially when we are enjoying a bountiful harvest. so it is a curious situation when a beekeeper from olaw produces honey that cannot be honey because it is enriched with ginger, cranberries and raspberries. you can't call that product honey anymore! why would you do that? because the native beehives have been invaded by eu regulations.
in writing. − each year, the eu's anti-fraud policy makes a significant contribution to protecting the eu's interests and member states' budgets. it ensures that eu and member state budgets are properly protected and that money is spent as intended and goes to the right beneficiaries. to continue this work, the european commission has adopted two proposals for the hercules iii and pericles 2020 programmes. the programmes, with budgets of eur 110 million and eur 7,7 million respectively, will start in january 2014 and will run for several years. financial abuse of the eu budget is not a victimless crime. they are all eu citizens, because this money belongs to all of us. the european union is at the epicentre of the global financial crisis, so we need to pay particular attention to protecting our revenues and ensuring that citizens make the most of eu funds. the hercules iii programme aims to combat fraud, corruption and other illegal activities affecting the eu's financial interests. it shall in particular cover cooperation between the commission, represented by the european anti-fraud office (olaf), and the competent authorities of the member states and other institutions and bodies of the european union. the programme aims to ensure a uniform level of protection in the member states and in all eu institutions, bodies and agencies.
in writing. − one of the consequences of the creation of the european union was the abolition of borders between the member states, creating a single market. this has resulted in the european union statistics being deprived of data sources on trade between the countries of the european union, as customs clearance has been discontinued and the sad (single administrative document) has therefore disappeared. a new, common system of statistics on trade in goods between the member states of the european union was needed. the intrastat system has been in force in the european single market area since 1 january 1993. currently, in the member states of the european union, data on foreign trade are derived from two statistical systems that operate in parallel: 1. the extrastat system, which covers the volume of trade of eu member states with so-called third countries, i.e. non-eu member states; 2. the intrastat system, i.e. the statistical system covering trade between eu member states based on data from the intrastat declarations. intrastat is a system for collecting data on trade between member states directly from suppliers and recipients of goods.
in writing. - i would like to raise the issue of crime against endangered species of wild fauna and flora protected by the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, the so-called washington cites convention. the accession of poland to the european union and the earlier accession of our country on 12 march 1990 to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (the so-called washington cites convention of 1973) impose on the polish police the obligation to carry out intensified preventive and operational and procedural activities in the field of implementation and enforcement of international and eu legal acts on combating illegal international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora.
freedom of movement is a principle that must not be violated, although in practice it often leads to consequences that are difficult to accept. this is due to the different levels of wealth in the countries of the european union. richer countries, richer societies, are defending themselves against the excessive influx of immigrants from poorer societies. in a short time, over two million people left my country to seek their fortunes. this is definitely not a healthy situation. migrants are victims of two things: on the one hand, they are victims of their own governments, which are unable to provide adequate living and working conditions in their country of origin; on the other hand, they are particularly vulnerable in the host country, are treated worse and often fall victim to party conflicts. that is why i have taken with regret the recent statements by certain british politicians, including those in this house, as unfair to the polish immigrants. i am also saddened by the news of what is happening to my fellow germans, as reported in the media. it's also hurtful and unfair. it's not supposed to be like this.
mr. chairman, please! the speeches by commissioner reding and commissioner andorra contained all the essential facts and the real arguments, so that the figures are clear. europeans, including poles, migrate to other countries to work, not to receive benefits. it's estimated that less than 0.5% of the population is on welfare while not working. second, foreign workers contribute more to the budget of the countries where they work than they receive in the form of various benefits through taxes and social and health insurance contributions. baroness ludford spoke of this, citing british research and calculations in this matter. thirdly, and lastly, there is no doubt that the contribution of these workers, the migrants from european countries, to the economic development of the countries where they work is, of course, positive, and it is large. no european government, i stress, no european government has provided, despite the requests of the european commission, any evidence to the contrary in the three cases i have mentioned. in this context, unfortunately, the words of prime minister cameron were hurtful, which he said to the poles, using the poles as an example, an illustration for the alleged abuse of the uk child benefit system. they angered my countrymen because, first of all, it was untrue, and secondly, it was insulting to those who work hard and contribute more to the uk budget than they take out of it. i expected the british conservative mps in this room to say a simple "i'm sorry". unfortunately, that word didn't come up. so i appeal to the allies of the british conservatives, the lawmakers of the pis, the members of the group poland together. gentlemen, it is not enough to have a mouth full of phrases about the honor of poland and the dignity of poles, if you have not been able to enforce from your allies the simple, ordinary word "i'm sorry", that is, you are ineffective and say the word in their name here in this room. that's what our countrymen and your constituents expect. (laughter) (applause)
all those who say that the right to move is one of the fundamental human rights in the european union, a fundamental right of a citizen of the european union, are right. that's right, you did. yet, the berlin wall still exists in the minds of many. there are good guys and bad guys. and we have to tear down that berlin wall, tear it down again, but this time in our minds. and in the minds of the people in this room. i cannot help but take the bitter satisfaction of quoting the words of e. brok, who is sitting in this room and who said in an interview with bild magazine last year: "immigrants who come to germany only for welfare, child benefits and health care must be quickly sent back to their homelands. to prevent them from re-entering germany, we should consider taking their fingerprints. i have a question for jack protasiewicz: if you wanted us, as poland together, to apologize for david cameron's words, do you have the courage to stand up and apologize for e. brok's words?
mr president, never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few. te słowa o bohaterskich polskich lotnikach, którzy ramię w ramię z brytyjczykami uratowali anglię przed hitlerem, wypowiedział winston churchill, który musi się dzisiaj przewracać w grobie widząc jak obecny premier wielkiej brytanii rozumie wolność i równość. pan cameron dla niskich wyborczych kalkulacji zapowiedział zmiany w prawie zmierzające do pozbawienia polaków – pracujących ciężko w wielkiej brytanii i płacących tam podatki – zasiłków dla ich dzieci pozostających w polsce. stanowi to jawną dyskryminację polaków, którzy tworzą brytyjski dochód narodowy, i polski, która stanowi rynek zbytu dla brytyjskiej gospodarki. solidarna polska wzywa pana camerona do przeproszenia za te słowa i wycofania się z tej propozycji. mr cameron, withdraw your proposals, which go against the european principles of the free movement of labour and people, and do not ever divide people in such a way.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. freedom of movement would not be such a controversy if it were not for the different economic situations across the european union. the real challenge is not populist calls to close down particular markets, but the problem of job creation across europe. the main losers of labour migration due to poverty and lack of prospects are the countries of origin of the migrant workers. this migration calls for the necessary reforms, guaranteeing decent working conditions for all europeans in all member states. we need a strong european union with a big budget. it's time to realize that fighting unemployment is our number one priority. in this context, the words of prime minister cameron and other conservative politicians are particularly poignant. their attempts to set britain against europe, along with their criticism of immigrants from poland and other central and eastern european countries, deserve particular condemnation and clear opposition, and i am glad that this debate today is an expression of that. we will not allow poles to be treated as second-class europeans. poles work too hard for the common european good to become the object of political warfare by incompetent leaders who can't even count. today's debate is a victory for open europe and a defeat for the policies of cameron, kaczynski and other eurosceptics and opponents. we in the european parliament, mr president, together with the commission and the council, have done our part. now is the time for voters to vote for the socialists, the sld, the labour party, and against cameron and kaczynski.
mr. chairman, please! we're having a debate that shouldn't be in this room at all. the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the union. no member state leader has ever challenged this right before. i think the british prime minister has deliberately pushed a boundary that has not been crossed, making the poles responsible for the alleged damage that the uk has suffered as a result of previous accessions. not only does it stigmatize poles, it also undermines the idea of a united europe. parliament should therefore strongly protest against prime minister cameron's words and his division of the citizens of the union into those who have more and those who have fewer rights in europe. i'm calling on prime minister cameron to end populism and the fight to improve the support columns at the expense of poles. it's not the poles who are to blame for the situation in the islands, but the way this country is run by the current government. (laughter) (applause)
he wrote to me, mr. president, and to you, a private citizen, asking if we should even go outside the country to fight each other. i would like to address my colleagues in poland and central europe in particular. my dear ones! in each group -- look around, starting with jack kursky (do you want me to quote farage?), and going all the way to the left -- you'll find people who, because of immigration, because of the plight of those who had to leave their country and work elsewhere, are making political capital. we as poles, we as citizens, we as meps from central europe are here today not to fight with anyone - because in every group you will find someone - but we are here to say clearly that we do not agree, all in solidarity, to restrict in any way the right to free movement and to take up work in another european country. that is our task, that is our first duty, and that is what we demand of you today. this is what the poles who work hard on the islands expect today, and it is what the citizens of other central european countries expect. make it sound clear.
mr. postle, i can't take advantage of this space, but i have to answer your question. yes, that's right, that's exactly what this resolution is going to be about, but it seems that your group has not joined the joint text. that's just a title for an explanation, and now i'd like to ask for a minute for congressman cymanski.
mr. chairman, please! mass emigration in europe is primarily for earnings, not benefits. big projects require a lot of imagination. the european union is one such project. at this point, that imagination is gone. i believe that the scale of the differences on the continent and the huge disparities between member states are our common failure and are the real reason for people to seek work for themselves and a livelihood for their families in other countries. the facts are obvious. i think the union is also about respecting the basic principles and keeping the agreements. you can change these treaties, every country has the right to change them, including the uk, but you do it in a certain way, not by attacking and destroying elementary rules, even rules that are more important than the european union. these are the rules of good manners, respect for others, and honesty in conduct.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. ambassador, do you not think that economic differences are not the only reasons for the great migration of poles, romanians and hungarians? we have equal rights in the european union. the fundamental right is the right to be treated equally, even if we work and travel and live abroad. do you not think that in order to resolve this situation, it is david cameron who should apologize for his unfortunate statement which is causing such divisions in this house as well?
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, for the commission this has been a reassuring debate. i believe a great majority of this house is united in the rejection of xenophobia, scaremongering and manipulation. i believe we all want to respect the facts, our treaties and each other. several speakers emphasised the mutual benefits of the free movement of workers and also pointed to the fact that actual free movement – cross-border employment and job-seeking – is at a relatively modest level today in the european union. if this is so – if the level of cross-border labour mobility is indeed relatively modest – the question is why some people should think that free movement is a nightmare. setting aside manipulation – and we know there is manipulation, especially when we see certain government officials withdrawing studies because of concern that they would help to clarify the picture for the public – i think this fear probably exists as a result of some unexpected recent developments and also of uncertainty about the future. the unexpected developments include the scale of migration in certain specific cases and certain bad experiences that people in specific localities have had. there has also been uncertainty about the future, but the experience of 1 january 2014, which was recalled by many speakers in this discussion, will hopefully lead to the elimination of that uncertainty, specifically in relation to the free movement of workers from romania and bulgaria. the commission has been working to reduce uncertainty by proposing and implementing concrete measures to ensure that the free movement of workers leads to better outcomes in the future, both economically and socially. we are working for the reinforcement of eures, the european job mobility portal, which i have already mentioned, and i will bring forward the proposal on this very soon. we are also preparing a european platform against undeclared work and, since ms cornelissen mentioned minister asscher, i would point out that he is one of the participants in this effort. together we have looked into such cases and have considered the possibilities for reinforcing labour inspection in the netherlands and using this experience to build the european platform against undeclared work. we have been working on better implementation of the posting of workers directive, which many of the speakers mentioned. i am glad that a good compromise was established in the council in december and i very much hope that in the coming weeks the council and parliament will agree on a good solution. the functioning of this directive will, i hope, lead to better and more services in the eu single market and also to better guarantees against social dumping. we are also working for inclusive growth in source countries, because more opportunities and more jobs need to be created in the more peripheral regions of the union, and we are working for more effective use of the eu financial instruments, especially the european social fund, for this purpose. that point should be highlighted now, at the start of the new seven-year financial period, when countries are still programming the esf allocation. while the discussion has been greatly overheated recently in some countries, it has been quite easy to misrepresent what the commission has been up to in this context. unfortunately this happened last week in the german press, as quoted by ms hirsch, and i would therefore like to point out that certain highly inaccurate statements were circulated in the german press without the commission having said a word about the specific case in question. the first time i spoke about this so-called ‘dano affair’, which is a matter for a court in leipzig, was on monday. i have already clarified the position but, since the report has been repeated, i have to say again that, contrary to what was stated in the german newspaper article, the commission does not generally advocate facilitating the conditions of access to social benefits in the member states, and no case against germany is being taken up by the commission. on the contrary, the commission’s submissions in this context are based on the premise that member states can refuse to grant social assistance allowances to inactive citizens. however, it derives from the case law of the court of justice that this refusal cannot be automatic. the competent national authorities must assess the individual situation of the applicant and, in particular, the period during which the benefit applied for is likely to be granted. if the grant of the requested benefit would place a disproportionate burden on that member state’s social assistance system as a whole, the benefit can be refused. i would like to see quality newspapers in particular paying closer attention to the facts, and if there is a question they should, of course, put it to the commission directly. what happened was disappointing, because i paid specific attention to the situation in german cities that i visited, from munich to hamburg. in many of these places i spoke with the mayors, and i will continue in the coming weeks, in north rhine westphalia, to work with the authorities of cities and regions to find solutions to specific local challenges there. we do not need an escalation of this debate driven by gut feelings. we do not need the kind of bonfire of half-baked ideas which we have witnessed in recent weeks and months. we need more solidarity, more understanding and constructive cooperation to resolve the real problems that exist at municipal level and also at eu level.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, an overwhelming majority in this house says that freedom of movement is an important positive right for all european citizens without exception. freedom of movement is a right which is also precious to european citizens, because they tell us, in the eurobarometer, that they consider this to be the most important right in the european union. but, like all rights, it comes with obligations. it is up to the member states to take their responsibility and to put these obligations into practice. as my colleague has explained in detail, the commission is ready to give member states a helping hand so that this can be done. the debate has also shown that the commission and parliament are in absolute agreement that freedom of movement is not a problem but an opportunity. it is an opportunity for our economy and for our society. we, as a commission, will make sure it stays so. this house also agrees that free movement is a fundamental right and is not open to negotiation. i can tell you that the commission will make sure that it remains so.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, as i said in my opening remarks, there is very strong and unconditional support in the council for upholding and promoting the principle of free movement as one of the basic freedoms of the eu. i am pleased to take from this afternoon’s debate equally strong support among a very large majority of members of this house. very many of you have called for free movement to be strongly defended. i very much agree, and i consider that both parliament and the council have an interest in working together – of course with the commission – to this end. i also agree with those who have said that we need to have a rational and calm debate on this issue based on facts rather than scare stories. let me conclude by going back to the maastricht treaty of 1993. the treaty of maastricht established the notion of eu citizenship more than 20 years ago. union law and the treaties, as regards citizenship and the rights of citizens, have evolved since then, but one thing has remained the same. free movement of persons is a fundamental right of all eu citizens and their family members, and it is our duty to do our utmost to uphold that fundamental right for the benefit of all our citizens.
i have received six motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 january 2014. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. as a member of the european parliament and a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i strongly oppose the discriminatory actions taken by prime minister cameron and his ruling team. the contribution of polish citizens to the economic development of the united kingdom is undeniable. we can speak of a negative financial result for social benefits for child rearing in the case of british citizens, not polish ones! the uk is a member of the european union and has an obligation to respect the principles that have underpinned the functioning of a united europe, including the free movement of people! the rights of polish citizens who have decided to migrate are guaranteed by european law, which is guarded by the european parliament! emigration for many poles, including those from abroad, involves making many difficult decisions. in search of work and prospects, you are forced to leave your family, friends, everything you know, to try to start a new life in a foreign country. the heads of state and government of the european union made many promises to poland and its citizens in the pre-accession period, and i, as a full-time member of the european parliament for the lublin region, will not allow them to be broken.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. freedom of movement for persons is one of the four fundamental principles of the eu treaty. it is guaranteed to all citizens of the union. in many member states, legal workers from other eu member states have a net contribution to the host country's social security system at the same level as national workers. the benefits to the host country's development are evident in sectors such as healthcare, agriculture and construction. in a globalized world, more and more people are leaving their home countries to find work. i am surprised and disappointed by the recent speech by the british prime minister david cameron, who, with populist statements, undermines one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens - the right to free movement of persons. it is worth mentioning here that the free movement of workers is a positive example in socioeconomic terms both at eu and member state level. it is the basis for integration, economic and social development and helps to overcome the economic crisis. i hope that member states will refrain from any action that may infringe the right to free movement of workers, which is based on eu basic legislation. remember that eu law protects all eu citizens from discrimination on grounds of nationality in terms of working and employment conditions, access to training, social benefits and tax benefits.
in writing. freedom is a basic human right. freedom gives us the power to drive development. freedom is not just the ability to make individual decisions, but also the ability to move about freely. i'm surprised the british government is trying to restrict that freedom today. i have repeatedly challenged the actions and decisions taken by the eu. but i think that its fundamental achievement was to open up its borders and break the post-war dictate of closing europe up and dividing it into two zones. prime minister cameron, on a wave of economic collapse and a weakening political position, is trying to rebuild support by introducing a rash of changes. i appeal to you, mr. prime minister, in 1940 the british took in the poles, helped them defeat the german blitzkrieg over london. i hope that history lesson was remembered. any attempt to limit it is doomed to failure. the eu treaties prohibit it. so, prime minister cameron, it is better to withdraw now than to withdraw in the context of defeat, under the dictates and conditions of brussels.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the future of the safe harbour agreement in the light of the nsa affair (2013/2985(rsp)). i would like to inform colleagues that this debate does not allow the blue-card procedure and that is why your request for questions will not be accepted.
colleagues, before starting this debate, once again let me remind you that this debate envisages neither the blue-card procedure nor the catch-the-eye procedure, and that limits the debate to only one representative from each political group.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on eu citizenship for sale (2013/2995(rsp)).
in its resolution on kosovo's integration process with the european union, parliament called on the five member states, namely the current eu presidency, greece, cyprus, partly occupied by turkey, as well as romania, slovakia and spain, to take steps to recognise kosovo. the appeal itself is a sign of the absence of a common foreign policy for the european union. in article 34, we express concern about the various discriminatory practices in kosovo and call for equality to be guaranteed in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights. it should be recalled that not all member states of the union, such as poland and the united kingdom, have also accepted this charter. the mere fact that these points are being put together shows a kind of schizophrenia in the message, which does not add to our credibility and seriousness on the international stage, and especially in the western balkans.
mr. chairman, please! the balkans is a region where dramatic events have occurred both in distant history and in this one, a dozen years ago. unfortunately, we as the european union failed the test. we are all the more responsible for what is happening in the western balkans today. i would therefore like to thank both the high representative, baroness ashton, and commissioner füle for their commitment. this is a good job that the european commission and the high representative are doing there. as far as serbia is concerned, i am also in favour of the enlargement of the european union to include serbia. i don't think we can talk about any dates today, but this is a process we should be bringing to a close. recognition should also be given to serbia's recent efforts, especially in the area of dialogue with kosovo. there is, of course, a lot to be done in kosovo. we know that this is a very poor country that we have to help. but we should also demand from kosovo, we should demand further reform of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and also against organised crime, also the care of the minority, including the serbian minority.
it is good that we are seeing positive signs in kosovo. it was the last election. we must, however, bear in mind the european union's continuing responsibility for the situation in that country. this is particularly true of relations between kosovo albanians and serbs. while it is good to see a recent easing of conflict between these national groups, tensions persist. that is why we must continue to demand that the physical security of the kosovo serbs be guaranteed. we should also demand the restoration of many of our priceless sacred monuments. since 1999, the kosovo albanians have destroyed more than 150 of them, including the historic prizren seminary, the church in deviču, the monastery of the holy archangels, the churches in djakovica and uroševač. the credibility of the european union is at stake in the case of the trafficking of organs of serbs tortured and murdered during the civil war.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! south sudan is not only the world's youngest country, it's also one of the poorest. war is something the people of the south are used to, unfortunately. the last few decades have been very turbulent. in fact, most of the adult population has lived a longer part of their lives in war than in peace. at the same time, the current civil war is not only unnecessary, but also deadly to both sides. the war for independence can be won. the war that is being fought today cannot be won. if the military action is not stopped soon, everyone will lose. president kiir and riek machar should stop their troops and end the senseless conflict. but a ceasefire is not enough. the nuer and dink leaders should bring about true reconciliation between their peoples. if this does not happen, conflicts will continue to flare up, with civilians the most vulnerable. that's what's happening now. today, even humanitarian aid is largely blocked because of insecurity. the son of former vice president machar married a polish woman last year. however, most nuer children will remain in south sudan forever. they'll live and work there. if they get the chance. the responsibility of leaders is enormous. may they rise to the challenges that lie ahead.
madam president! mrs tomašić rightly pointed out that homelessness offends the dignity of people, and not just those who are homeless themselves, but society as a whole. this is absolutely unacceptable in 21st century europe. that's why we need a strategy, and i support it. it's true we're late getting into this, but better late than never. however, while respecting the sovereignty of the member states in this matter, certain minimum expectations, standards at european level, are needed. the funds are also needed to help with this, because member states are not always able to cope with this difficult problem. such is the importance of evictions. well, they shouldn't be. member states should ensure that no one is evicted from their home under a bridge by judicial or administrative decisions, as this is a genuine violation of human dignity.
madam president! the experience of homelessness is traumatic, both mentally and physically, and yet one of the basic conditions for a decent human existence is a roof over your head. the resolution emphasized prevention. i believe that this should be the main objective of the member states. first, because we shouldn't allow people to have to experience this trauma at all. it is better to take all the measures necessary to prevent this situation than to take action when people are already in a difficult situation. prevention is better than cure. secondly, this is where member states have a real room for manoeuvre. a number of actions can be taken by national governments to improve this situation: better housing, economic, immigration policies, including working with people who are at potential risk and who have already been affected by homelessness. many associations, foundations and ngos work with homeless people and help them survive the winter or find temporary accommodation in a shelter. these organisations, which operate across europe, are much needed and their work is important, but their funding and scope of action are often limited. they cannot take on the full responsibility for solving this complex problem. what is needed is a decisive action by the member states and, above all, the political will to develop a genuine european strategy, as has been repeatedly mentioned here today. many of the ideas proposed in this resolution should be seen as an important voice of parliament on this issue. i would particularly like to stress the importance of the points on the prevention of homelessness and would like the governments of the countries in europe to take appropriate action to further cooperation in this field.
madam president! the economic crisis has made homelessness a tragic reality in almost all member states and the most brutal form of social exclusion, with consequences both for those directly affected and for society as a whole. the commission and parliament have been trying for years to use the instruments available to combat homelessness, including, above all, the possibilities offered by the european funds. this is eur 3.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. this is still too little to tackle the problem, but it is not acceptable that the measures taken do not produce the expected results. it is no longer feasible to eliminate street homelessness by 2015, as the strategy adopted three years ago had predicted. moreover, i am not sure that it is even realistic to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. member states are not able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by eu money. the european federation of organisations working for the homeless points out that the general proposals for using european funds to fight homelessness proposed by the commission in 2013... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! in the previous term i was one of the initiators of the written declaration adopted by this house on the need to develop a strategy to combat homelessness. so i'm glad that we're debating that strategy today. we know that homelessness is a problem that is not easily solved, but as politicians we cannot say that we are helpless and have nothing to offer in this matter. i therefore call on the european commission to be more involved in coordinating and sharing good practice in the various member states of the european union. we will not be effective in brussels if we do not support and promote the best solutions, whether they are those applied by individual member state governments or at local level, and especially if we do not support the ngos which have a great deal of experience and success in this field. we have an instrument that can do this, the european social fund. let us use it.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very constructive discussion. i believe it provides a lot of support for the commission at this time when we are approaching the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. this is the main strategic framework for the european union – not only for the commission – to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive goals and, within that context, to fight all forms of poverty, including homelessness. together with the member states, we are committed to making a visible reduction in poverty in the european union. we are ensuring, in the meantime, that the new multiannual financial framework emerges in a form which can support these objectives. i am very grateful for the support of parliament, because, as you know, quite a few member states oppose having a robust eu budget, the establishment of the financial instrument to support the most deprived, and some also a minimum share for the social fund. obviously, without these key elements – without a robust budget – we would have a much smaller chance in this fight. we also came forward last year with a social investment package, which provides a framework for the member states to improve the effectiveness of the social policies. under this new framework, the commission has been playing a more robust coordinating role than before. when this was adopted, this house strongly welcomed the fact that it exceeded some expectations. for example, it establishes the knowledge bank to bring together the best practices and share those among the member states. in that context, we have already received strategies from countries like denmark and the czech republic, which follow the spirit and the guidance of this social investment package in the area of tackling homelessness. we can use this, and this will be the first semester in the cycles of the european semester on economic governance in which we can take advantage of the social investment package, including what it says on homelessness. we have also called on the member states to implement not just the europe 2020 strategy but also the 1998 active inclusion strategy. on this basis, a lot of progress would already need to be seen in the area of homelessness for implementation in the member states to work. why, then, are we not seeing progress? why, in terms of poverty, are we seeing movement in the opposite direction rather than progress? it is not because the member states do not want to work with the commission to improve the effectiveness of social policy and tackle homelessness; it is because of the eurozone crisis, as you very well know. i am glad that i heard, from quite a few members of this house, references to the importance of tackling the eurozone crisis and connecting the macroeconomic agenda with social outcomes. however, the commission has already put forward a communication on the social dimension of the emu. this is another concrete step to ensure that economic governance better reflects the social outcomes. poverty and inequality have been integrated into a new scoreboard which will allow for a better focus in the european semester. but if we do not improve our response to the crisis and respond in a more systematic, more robust way in order to get out of this eurozone crisis, we will face very serious limitations and there will be very little hope that social conditions will improve quickly. banking regulation – as several speakers also pointed out – is important, but it is not possible to include, in any kind of strategy document at the level of the member states or the eu, everything which has an impact or a bearing on, or is of relevance to, social outcomes, including homelessness. it is also very important to ensure that macroeconomic policies and financial sector regulations become aware and take greater account of the social dimension. resources, financial resources and implementation capacity are key. we have to announce the goals and outline the way forward at the level where the resources and the implementation capacities exist. i believe the eu funds – which, as you know well, are implemented in shared management for the next period, 2014 to 2020 – allow the member states to allocate financial resources in a more targeted manner, with a view to ending homelessness. the commission has prepared guidelines on how these funds – in particular the european social fund – support homeless people, social inclusion and employability in various ways, such as through support services, training centres and socio-economic programmes. these programmes are of benefit to individuals, as well as to the community. practically every specific action that has been mentioned in this discussion is already being implemented by the commission, which has already encouraged the member states to take these steps in order to tackle homelessness. as regards the specific uk dimension of this discussion, let me just say that the british experience in the area of tackling homelessness is one that we have been promoting; indeed, the housing-first strategy, especially as it was implemented under former mayor ken livingstone, made a lot of progress in the uk towards eliminating or very significantly reducing homelessness, and this has been very explicitly mentioned in our documents. i therefore very much regret the fact that mr clark has been very inaccurately informed about what i was saying in the british media about the country – i definitely never said that the uk is a nasty country. these are not my words. unfortunately, some newspapers reported this in an inaccurate way and in the wrong context. it is also untrue that the commission would be, so to speak, promoting mass migration. the commission wants to ensure that freedom of movement is respected in the european union in all countries, and this was a subject of the debate yesterday. i think it created much clarity in a sometimes confused debate. we in the commission would be very happy to continue working with the members of this house; we would like to see more members of the european parliament in our meetings, like at the people experiencing poverty conference. i know that meps sometimes face time shortages, but we have a number of conferences, including the convention on the platform against poverty and a forthcoming conference on social innovation, where related issues will be discussed. we work with the ngos; we fund a large number of ngos which are proactive in this area, and we remain committed to this cause. we have been funding very innovative approaches, for example cooperation between railway companies to tackle homelessness. if there is a need for information on this, then of course we are ready to provide it. we are strongly committed to maintaining the anti-poverty dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, which was mentioned by ms berès.
in writing. homelessness is a global problem affecting all eu countries. the economic crisis has increased the number of homeless people in denmark, greece, spain, france, poland, the united kingdom, and other countries. between 2011 and 2013, the number of homeless people in poland increased by 19%. combating homelessness requires the cooperation of policy makers, civil society representatives, experts and the homeless themselves. a european strategy to tackle homelessness is to be developed by the end of 2015. it should focus in particular on prevention, which is seven times less costly than addressing the effects of homelessness, and on supporting the development and maintenance of effective national and regional strategies to combat homelessness. in poland, one of the main causes of homelessness is the lack of sufficient affordable public housing. according to finland's experience, housing stability is key to tackling homelessness. in the long term, the finnish 'home first' system is less costly than alternative methods of addressing homelessness in the short term (maintenance of shelters and accommodation, medical care and prevention of the so-called criminalisation of homelessness). the most worrying is the increase in the number of homeless children. there are about 31,000 homeless people in poland, of whom 1,500 are children. most of them are victims of domestic violence. i call on the member states to take special care of this problem in order to prevent the spread of homelessness as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, after this revolting document called the estrela report was defeated in this chamber, the left has come back with another ideological offensive. the concept of a reproductive right is absurd. it is nothing but an ideological ploy to condone morally dubious practices. this is what the left did in the past, and this is what they are doing today. the particularly alarming consequences of so-called ‘reproductive rights’ are massive violations of human conscience. the conscience clauses have been suspended, removed or drastically limited. doctors, priests, teachers, lawyers, state functionaries and ordinary people are forced to do something which is morally wrong. all of this is simply outrageous and cannot be accepted. if this is the direction in which the eu is going, i am afraid we are on the threshold of a dark age. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i have read the report, and i repeat: it is a revolting document.
there is no one scarf and there is no one side of this medal. there is no one value of women's rights. there is also the second value, the value of the life of the unborn, the value of the life of the unborn, and we must speak about this matter calmly, because we are talking about the most important issue. each of us sitting here was once a zygote, an embryo. that's the basic truth. we cannot shout and we cannot embarrass this house with confrontation and aggression. and we must respect the principle that these matters are regulated in the member states. one can be proud to be from a country where abortion is optional. i am a pole, i am proud that human life in poland is protected by law. the constitutional court ruled so. let's respect the difference! europe is one, but each country decides for itself and makes its own laws.
madam president! the european parliament has no reason to debate the availability of abortion in the member states of the european union. this debate is a waste of time and money. but since so many bitter words have been said about spain, i would like to declare on my own behalf that the actions of the spanish government deserve the highest recognition, because abortion, especially abortion on demand, is a barbaric act. we will be ashamed of abortion as we are of slavery today. this is a huge mistake that europe is making. i have two very specific questions to the european commission and to commissioner kallasa: does the commission claim any power to shape the availability of abortion in the eu member states? does the european commission claim any power over the presence of sex education in schools in the eu member states? i'm asking for a legal answer, not a journalistic one.
madam president! the prohibition or restriction of the right to terminate a pregnancy constitutes a form of institutional violence against women. it is an expression of unequal treatment of women and men, discrimination against women, violation of their dignity, health and right to freedom from inhuman and degrading treatment. spain is back to anti-abortion rhetoric, a nod to the catholic church and an attempt to distract from the crisis and the alarming level of youth unemployment. the ban on abortion, it must be remembered, is an attribute of totalitarianism, it was in force under hitlerism, stalinism and francoism. in poland, there is a restrictive anti-abortion law, and its effects are deplorable: there are several hundred legal abortions a year and 150,000 illegal ones. banning abortion doesn't end abortion, it just pushes it underground. the anti-abortion laws are a threat to women's health and lives. they are a form of wealth discrimination, since the abortion ban primarily affects poor women. i call on the spanish people to respect the rights of women and not to follow the polish path, because it is the path of catholic hypocrisy.
madam president! this is not the union we agreed to - a union which interferes with the internal affairs of individual countries, their order, which democratic countries have the exclusive right to regulate, a union which imposes in the sphere of moral action that are unacceptable, that can be considered barbaric. this is not the union we agreed to, and we must therefore be aware that discussions like the one we have today in the european parliament will also arouse anti-union sentiment. we must realise that many europeans want a union, but one in which we can work together while respecting our own particularities, while respecting the exclusive right of each country to determine its own moral standards. we cannot impose our inner convictions on others in matters of conscience, faith and life, because this will not only provoke emotions but also create ever greater divisions and may eventually turn against the european union. remember that. (laughter) (applause)
this is a very important report on the future of europe. we must continue to build on the development of industry, which is the main source of gdp. for years, europe dominated the rest of the global competition. it is absolutely essential to invest in small and medium-sized enterprises, to renew innovation strategies, to create genuine research and development centres that will be able to continue to be a source of innovation and new ideas in europe. that is why it is so important to prepare a strategy modelled on the strategy of other countries in the world that are competing with europe. i therefore believe that the european union should jointly prepare and implement this strategy, first of all by removing all barriers. the main thing is to increase access to capital, reduce red tape and, above all, invest huge money in industrial innovation and research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainable growth. the economic crisis has caused severe losses in the industrial sector, with as many as 3.8 million people losing their jobs. despite the situation, industry remains one of the main drivers of growth in the european union. however, to boost growth again, europe needs a strong and long-term industrial strategy today. given the increasing industrial development in emerging economies, the european union must focus its efforts on investing in innovation and developing a green strategy. the reindustrialisation plan must aim to reduce energy and resource costs, making european industry more competitive. however, this cannot be achieved without increasing the pool of funding for research development and innovation investments. i believe that the allocation of the appropriate funds to these objectives will increase the competitiveness of european enterprises on world markets and contribute to the creation of new highly skilled jobs in europe.
in writing. - i welcomed the fact that the european parliament had adopted a resolution on reindustrialising europe to support its competitiveness and sustainable development. there is an urgent need to rebuild and modernise the eu's industrial base, which would increase its competitiveness at regional and global level. the resolution draws attention to the fact that the availability of energy is a fundamental element of the strategy of industrialization. as i mentioned in the debate, it is the continuing rise in energy prices that is one of the main barriers to the reindustrialisation of europe, reducing the competitiveness of european companies on the global market. in addition, the burden of energy costs and the resulting complexity and instability of european regulation are contributing to the relocation of industrial enterprises outside the european union.
in writing. - europe is losing industry to other parts of the world where production is more profitable. the idea that we have a 'post-industrial' development based solely on services is not true, because there is no development without material production. is the union economy sufficiently competitive to allow for a real industrial recovery? what is the structure and the areas of activity? when analysing global competitiveness, we see that the cost components are higher in europe than for global competitors. this situation could only be remedied by product innovation, which depends on energy, material and organisational efficient technologies and efficient business processes. but we're not innovative enough. the emerging powers are making progress in areas like itc, nanotechnology, biotechnology. what market niches will the eu reindustrialisation be based on? the industry has been dominated by monopolistic multinational companies, which do not favour the creation of smes, with which they compete fiercely. europe needs solutions that will revive local industry, industry that will be able to meet demand competitively, based on local raw materials and a traditional work culture. this applies to agricultural, forestry and mineral raw materials, e.g. for construction; it applies to local energy. in the hope that the project under discussion will initiate action to re-industrialize, i voted yes.
in writing. − the global crisis has hit european economies hard, also negatively affecting the industrial sector, which plays a key role in building prosperity and creating jobs in eu member states. a comprehensive strategy for growth and sustainable investment leading to economic recovery is therefore needed. european industrial policy must focus on challenges such as: lack of investment in research and development, rising energy prices, red tape and difficulties in accessing finance, lack of adequately qualified workers. the rise industrial recovery strategy for a sustainable europe should support technological, business, financial, environmental and social innovation, while leading to the emergence of new innovative products and services, new business models and creative entrepreneurs and enterprises, the creation of new jobs and decent work, and contributing to industrial renewal, economic dynamism, consumer confidence and competitiveness. i also welcome the attention paid to the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been most affected by the crisis, and to the need to provide them with comprehensive support in the reindustrialisation process, including through the reform of trade defence instruments.
in writing. - i voted for mr bütikofer's report because i believe that european industry has great potential. i am therefore glad that this subject is now in the parliament's interest. although the economic crisis led to a reduction in industrial employment in the european union, it was also noted that the more industrialised european economies fared better during the crisis. however, we must remember that we are in a post-industrial era and the process of reindustrialisation must be adapted to the current economic realities both in europe and in the world. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that we need a holistic approach that focuses on creating an innovative and competitive industry. it should be noted that production is now decentralised, distributed and divided into small activities and stages. local production needs different support than large industrial plants. support for smes is key here. the main priority for such establishments is access to finance and the removal of bureaucratic barriers in order to unlock their full potential and contribute to the creation of new jobs, including for young people. cohesion policy can also play an important role here, as it can support smart specialisation, innovation and regional business incubators in the new financial perspective. a complementary element of horizon 2020 may be provided in this respect.
in writing. - the question of industry and reindustrialisation is a specific one in that it is not just an internal community matter, which the community itself has the greatest influence on. as players like china formulate their next multi-year industrial development plans, we should not just sit back and wait for the effects of these changes to reach us. despite the evolution of european economies, industry still accounts for the majority of exports and private sector investment in research and development. we should now focus not only on providing a favourable framework for the development of industry from the regional to the eu level, but also on working with the sector to move towards a low-carbon economy. factors such as development, environmental protection and necessary investments should be weighed. in view of the particular attention paid in the countries of the union to the environment and to the protection of the health and life of citizens, attention to industrial development must go hand in hand with investment in innovative solutions and the upgrading of the level of qualification of specialists. increased labour productivity and measures to improve resource efficiency are good signals, as they are important factors in improving the competitiveness of european industry. a stable and growing industry also provides jobs, which not only helps it to grow, but also creates a demand for skilled workers, thus alleviating social problems.
in writing. - modern europe needs innovative proposals and best practice to become an industrial powerhouse with a large market for new jobs. all actions must be deliberate and evolutionary in nature. the main issues to be discussed are competition and overproduction in industry. europe is witnessing the rise of new industrial powers that will soon overtake it. many member states are embroiled in economic disputes, which very often prevent quick and joint decisions from being taken when they are most needed. a prime example is the lack of consensus on energy issues. individual countries cannot be both competitors and partners for each other. we must break down these barriers and work towards a european industrial agreement. it's also worth encouraging innovation and completely changing the way we think about industrial secrecy.
in writing. - europe needs a strong and competitive industry today to help us get out of the crisis. without the right conditions for business, we can forget about any development. so to talk about the reindustrialisation of europe, we should first of all talk about the mistakes we have made in recent times. the energy and climate package is particularly dangerous. they will cause energy prices to rise and industry to continue to flee abroad. another mistake is to over-regulate the economy. the additional environmental standards, plus the administrative burden, mean that entrepreneurs spend their time filling out paperwork instead of thinking about development. the rapporteur has mentioned all this in his report, while stressing the importance of the green revolution for improving the situation. i don't agree with that kind of thinking, and that's why i voted against it.
in writing. − the governing council of the european central bank (ecb) adopted an opinion on the recommendation of the council of the european union concerning the appointment of a new member of the executive board of the ecb. the governing council did not object to the nomination of sabine lautenschläger, who is a person of recognised standing and professional experience in the field of finance and banking, as required by article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european council, acting by a majority of its euro area members, shall decide on the appointment after receiving the opinions of the governing council and the european parliament. the ecb's opinion, which will shortly be published in the official journal of the european union, is available on the ecb's website in all official eu languages.
in writing. − an application for waiver of the immunity of a member of the european parliament is generally submitted to the president of the european parliament by a court, a public prosecutor's office or the foreign affairs ministry. the final waiver of immunity shall be decided upon by the ep plenary. this procedure shall also apply if the member does not wish to avail himself of the protection. a member may not be formally charged without his immunity being waived.
mr. chairman, please! the words of the british prime minister on immigrants cannot go unheeded by the eu institutions, and above all by the european parliament. in a free europe, we cannot build bridges and create barriers that undermine the right to free movement of people. no one can be discriminated against on the grounds of nationality and this right should not be undermined by any european policy. my countrymen, by working in the uk, by paying taxes to the uk system, by buying goods and services, contribute to gdp growth and are entitled to social benefits. the proposed resolution is a very important signal to the citizens of the european union, as it says that the european parliament does not accept that any country in the european union practices a policy of discrimination. i am therefore very pleased that parliament has decided to adopt this resolution by a large majority, and i am also pleased that i was able to vote in favour of it.
mr. chairman, please! the principle of free movement of persons, including workers, is one of the greatest achievements of european integration, a kind of foundation on which the european community as a whole is based. however, in recent weeks, there has been a growing number of proposals from some countries to restrict migration policies and migration for economic reasons. such demands must be strongly opposed. i look to the european commission to take an active and unambiguous stance in defence of this remarkable achievement of europe's post-war generations. european integration should be for all the inhabitants of the continent and they should not be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, and unfortunately such declarations have also been made. the mobility of skilled workers has so far brought tangible benefits to the european economy as a whole. the migration is mainly of young people, active in their work, and i am not convinced by the argument that the national welfare systems are overburdened.
in writing. - we have been hearing for some time about the legal solutions proposed by the uk government which discriminate against poles living there in the use of social benefits. we also hear anti-immigrant rhetoric from politicians of all parties. while respecting the sovereignty of each country in social policy, i would like to remind you that eu member states have also undertaken commitments, including the obligation to treat all eu citizens equally. the changes proposed by the uk government are typical demonstration measures, harsh on eu citizens working there, but of little real significance to its budget. the burden of social transfers to poles is the benefit for only 25000 children. polish unemployed account for only 1% of the country's welfare recipients. at the same time, poles make a significant contribution to uk gdp. we cannot choose from the european union only those freedoms that suit us, in this case - yes - for the movement of capital, no - for the movement of people. in this case, the marginal benefit is at the expense of the fundamental principle. i have always encouraged my fellow citizens to be active citizens, both in their own country and in any place in europe where they have the right to do so. i would encourage them to use this power in the next european elections and to express their views on prime minister cameron's proposal.
in writing. − the free movement of persons within the european union is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens and a guarantee of the smooth functioning of the single market. the free movement of workers is one of the most effective tools in the fight against the global economic crisis and the challenges of a changing world. the benefits of the free movement of mobile workers in the eu are visible across europe, and it is a cornerstone of eu integration and economic development. i therefore support the joint motion for a resolution and the call for the abolition of all forms of discrimination against mobile workers in the eu, and for the illegal exploitation of the link between the right to free movement of persons for professional purposes and alleged abuses of social security systems. i also support parliament's call for the strict enforcement of eu law in all member states to ensure equal treatment for all eu workers and non-discrimination in access to employment, in the workplace and in terms of working conditions, pay, leave and social and tax benefits, thereby ensuring fair competition between businesses. i also support the call to ensure that any unjustified restrictions or obstacles to the free movement of workers are eliminated.
in writing. − in the current complex situation, when european economies have a chance to return to growth, the effective functioning of the common market is of the utmost importance. the infringement of market mechanisms and one of the fundamental freedoms of europe for propaganda purposes is a dangerous manipulation that can have serious negative economic consequences. as history shows, crises and economic hardships foster nationalistic, xenophobic attitudes and the dictates of demagogy over rational governance. one of the european union's tasks is to ensure that these dangerous trends do not disrupt the political and economic order of the community. as statistics show, polish workers in the uk contribute to gdp growth and pay taxes in the uk to finance their entitlements. migration is an important factor for the proper functioning of the european labour market and its positive impact cannot be undermined by populist activities.
in writing. − freedom of movement is one of the fundamental freedoms on which the european union is founded. this freedom is also guaranteed by the treaty, which means that its non-observance is a breach of the treaty principles, as is any restriction on it, including the restriction of migration volumes. it should be borne in mind that despite the populist statements of many prominent european politicians, migration, mostly related to labour mobility, brings many benefits to the host countries, also from an economic point of view. in the run-up to the european elections, the rhetoric of limiting migration will certainly be welcomed by citizens tired of the crisis, unemployment, but it is dangerous because it can lead to the development of xenophobic or even racist attitudes. i supported this resolution because i do not agree with the restriction of the fundamental freedoms which the treaties guarantee to eu citizens.
in writing. - the free movement of people is the foundation of the european single market. it is a right that belongs to all citizens of each eu member state. i strongly disagree with the positions of some european leaders, led by prime minister david cameron, who are calling for this freedom to be curtailed. such statements are an expression of weakness and blatant injustice towards immigrants who, through their hard work, build not only their own prosperity but also the prosperity of the host country. i am pleased that in the resolution parliament calls on the member states to use the resources of the union funds on migration: the european social fund, whose share in national envelopes we have increased to over 23%, and the european regional development fund. these funds, together with the cohesion policy for the next 7 years, can help to promote integration, social inclusion and poverty reduction. we need to focus on tackling unemployment across the eu, because it, along with the poverty that goes with it, is the root cause of migration. instead of arguing about the fundamental freedoms of every eu citizen, we should focus on the fight for a decent life for all europeans. it should not be forgotten that the fight against social dumping, the respect for the rights of posted workers and the protection of the social benefits of migrant workers are also integral elements of the discussion on the free movement of persons. for these reasons, i support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i strongly supported the resolution on the right to free movement in the eu. in the context of the debate on this issue, three key issues deserve special attention. first, free movement within the union is a fundamental right guaranteed to union citizens by the treaties, from which both workers and the economies of the member states benefit. second, it is not true that immigrants are over-reaching on social rights. in most eu countries, citizens of other member states do not receive social benefits more than citizens of the host member state. this is confirmed by the commission's investigation. moreover, in the united kingdom, for example, the taxes paid by european union immigrants exceed by 37 percent the social security benefits they receive in return. there is a small percentage of social tourists who take advantage of the situation, which reflects negatively on the entire immigrant community and creates a false stereotype. third, europe will soon begin to feel the effects of an ageing population and a shrinking workforce. already today, despite the high level of unemployment across the union, there are some 2 million vacancies available. the negative, discriminatory policies towards immigrants in some eu member states are very short-sighted.
in writing. − the european union boasts a number of freedoms for its citizens, and the freedom to leave, combined with the right to reside and work in another eu country, is one of the fundamental freedoms. the establishment of an appropriate framework to ensure full mobility in the internal labour market has a significant impact on the state of national economies and contributes to the competitiveness of the union as a whole. despite the sometimes expressed concerns about the influx of workers from the so-called 'new eu', their presence has had a positive impact on the economic development of the countries they have gone to. moreover, mobile workers from these countries did not have a significant impact on wage levels or unemployment rates in the host countries. freedom of movement for workers does not mean simply taking up a better-paid job in another country, as this mechanism can help to neutralise the negative effects of the economic crisis in the longer term. it should also be noted that the influx of foreign workers is not the cause of labour market problems, structural problems or the crisis in the labour market. there is a widespread tendency to blame immigrants for various adverse events, but these attitudes are often based on emotional factors. , so it's hard to treat them as arguments, even if they're shared by larger social groups.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on respect for the fundamental right of free movement in the eu (2013/2960(rsp)). this motion outlines a fundamental freedom of all eu citizens and their right to live and work wherever they please in the union. without question, there remain some sensitive areas but it is vital that the basic freedom of movement remains intact. the primary concern is that certain member states will implement legislation complicating said movement for some groups which, in turn, will result in the breakdown of that freedom. coincidentally poles have been singled out as one group that is taking full advantage of this freedom and is somehow blamed for problems in their new environment. while i would hope that my fellow citizens would stay in poland and contribute to our continued growth, it is preposterous to limit their freedom to relocate and then accuse them of not contributing. this situation is but one of the problems facing free movement but i feel that it illustrates the issues facing member states as more and more citizens pursue employment opportunities or other goals.
in writing. − the single market covers the whole area of the eu without internal borders, where goods, people, services and capital can move freely. it was created by the abolition of internal border controls. the single market recalls that the union is primarily a sphere of activity for competing firms. from this point of view, it is an economic space similar in function to the territory of a single state. the white paper on the creation of a single (internal) market presented by the european commission in 1985 was the first to mention the creation of an internal market. the adoption of the single european act, the most important provision of which was the decision to gradually complete the internal market by the end of 1992, was crucial to the full realisation of the internal market. the aim of the european union's single market is to achieve four principles: • free movement of goods • free movement of services • free movement of persons • free movement of capital. the free movement of goods (both industrial and agricultural) was conditional on the abolition of customs duties and all similar charges between eu countries. it was also necessary to establish a common customs tariff for trade with countries outside the union.
in writing. − i regret that we are once again forced to speak out on an issue as fundamental as the equality of eu citizens, their right to free movement and residence. i am even more concerned that our debate is the consequence of a debate that has its roots in highly developed countries that boast a deeply rooted democratic tradition. today's resolution calls on member states to respect and monitor the right to free movement of persons within the eu. this right must not be infringed under any circumstances and any citizen working in any member state of the european union other than his country of origin must be able to enjoy the same social rights as his fellow workers. let us not forget that the european union was created for the benefit of its citizens, and their mobility is one of the greatest achievements of its architects. we, as members of the european parliament, therefore have a duty to react and protect citizens against attempts to introduce mechanisms which discriminate against them and restrict their freedoms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the sale of eu citizenship. the concept that eu citizenship can be bought is a very bad idea, because it divides people into better and worse people based on their wealth. it is no secret that wealthy individuals who buy citizenship of another country often do so because of problems with the justice system of their country of origin or residence. malta has the full right to set its own rules, but maltese citizenship also entitles you to hold an eu passport. such practices may undermine the principle of free movement of persons, which is one of the eu's fundamental principles. the maltese authorities should consider whether the proposed solution would cause more harm than good.
in writing. - malta's actions have sparked a heated debate on the sale of citizenship by eu countries. the resolution we have voted today calls on the european commission to examine whether such measures, whether direct or indirect, are in any way compatible with the spirit of the treaties. it should be noted that we cannot treat eu citizenship as a commodity, but rather as a privilege. moreover, eu citizenship cannot be based on economic criteria - someone can afford it, so he or she buys it; the foundation of this citizenship should be a sense of community, which i believe is lacking in some decision-makers.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on eu citizenship for sale, which criticises the concept of trading eu citizenship. while member states have exclusive competence in matters of nationality and citizenship, decisions on these matters directly affect other member states and their citizens. the granting of citizenship of one of the countries of the union automatically confers rights of free movement and residence in the territory of the other member states. the acquisition of citizenship is also contrary to the principle of non-discrimination, as only the wealthiest third-country nationals can make such a purchase. in my view, the concept of 'economic citizenship' is also incompatible with the very idea of citizenship, which traditionally implies a permanent link with the state and the rights and obligations that follow from this fact.
in writing. - it has not been this easy to become a citizen of the union for decades. but there's a catch: it's a gateway to the rich. europe is a fortress under siege, defending its borders with all its might against immigrants, poor africans and asians who often pay the price of their lives to reach the shores of lampedusa in broken-down boats. but europe is opening its doors to wealthy immigrants, making it easier for them to settle permanently wherever possible. and many countries do, from austria to the united kingdom.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that serbia will start the negotiation process with brussels in the coming days. i hope that in the near future this country will be able to supply a number of member states. the balkan peninsula is a strategic area not only for economic reasons but also for the security of europe. the constructive approach taken by the serbian authorities in relations with its neighbours, which translates into progress in regional cooperation and energy policy, should be commended. activity in the prosecution of war crimes clearly contributes to the increase in confidence in belgrade's policies. further action is needed to promote administrative reforms, particularly in the areas of justice and electoral law. the persistently high level of corruption must be the target of decisive action by the government.
in writing. − thanks to joint efforts and the parties' efforts to reach an agreement, the elections held in november 2013 were also held in northern kosovo without major disturbances. this is an important step towards normalising relations in the region and contributes to the acceleration of the countries' integration with the european union. this is a factor that gains additional strength in the light of serbia's other achievements on the way to opening the accession procedure. it is clear that further normalisation of relations with kosovo will be of particular importance to serbia in the current situation. improved cooperation between law enforcement agencies at regional and international level has led to a fight against organised crime. as regards the economic criteria, it will be necessary to prepare the economy for the functioning of the union market. despite the ongoing restructuring of soes, they continue to generate losses, which, combined with high unemployment and budget deficits, should put this issue high on the priority list. the settlement of this situation should be based on a simple and clear legal basis, and corruption and legal instability are therefore issues that need to be addressed in the first place. however, in the light of the changes already made, there is some optimism about further transformation in serbia towards integration with the european union.
in writing. − in the ec reports, each of which focuses on a separate country that is a candidate for or is negotiating eu accession, bosnia and herzegovina is the weakest. 'it has made very little progress in meeting the political criteria,' the ec said. he adds that the democratic institutions in bih are too weak and constitutional reforms are held back. the commission, contrary to expectations, did not recommend in its report the opening of accession negotiations with serbia. according to the announcements, he will do so only after he considers that belgrade has made sufficient progress. the report shows that serbia has made progress but now needs to improve its relations with kosovo, its former province, which declared independence in 2008. a visible and lasting improvement in relations between serbia and kosovo is needed to allow both countries to continue their progress towards eu membership, while avoiding a reciprocal deadlock in these efforts.
in writing. - serbia is an important partner of the european union in a region as important to us as the balkans. it is a country that has a long way to go to achieve european integration. the sheer number of conditions belgrade must meet means that any discussion of integration must be postponed. i object to the inclusion of paragraphs condemning serbia for the negative attitude of serbs towards the issue of gay marriage.
in writing. − eu association negotiations with kosovo will not automatically mean recognition of kosovo's independence by those eu countries that have not yet done so. furthermore, i believe that spain has no reason not to recognise kosovo. and there is certainly no reason to block kosovo's future with the eu. no eu country has so far indicated that it intends to oppose the opening of association talks with pristina. the eu-kosovo integration process, which will be launched through the association talks, aims at eu membership. on monday, the european commission recommended that eu countries start negotiations on an association and stabilisation agreement with kosovo and accession negotiations with serbia. the path to these decisions was paved by friday's agreement between the two countries to normalize relations.
in writing. − the new icelandic government has suspended the accession negotiations, which have been ongoing since july 2010, until a national referendum on joining the european union has been held. the public is divided on this issue, and the new authorities have rightly decided that such an important decision about the future of their country should be in the hands of the citizens. in a report adopted today, the european parliament takes note of the government's position and awaits the outcome of the referendum. as i fully support the right of each country to be able to make sovereign decisions, especially on such an important issue as eu accession, i voted with the ecr group in favour of this report.
in writing. − during the several years of eu accession negotiations with iceland, the country made the changes required in this process. in addition to issues such as financial services, food security and capital flows, which require further attention from the authorities, overall progress in the european economic area should be considered satisfactory. although iceland is in many ways an attractive potential member of the union, the accession process was halted last year. however, contact has not been frozen, although cooperation and the increased compatibility of the two systems would certainly have proceeded much more rapidly if the exchange of information and practices under the programmes in place in connection with the accession process had continued. iceland's earlier accession efforts in 2010 were a strategic decision with long-term implications and prospects, and it is to be hoped that the continued vigorous policy of enlarging the union's borders to include more countries will once again encourage the icelandic authorities to resume negotiations. the benefits for both parties would be to facilitate basic cooperation, enhance development prospects and increase the stability of political and economic relations.
in writing. − the parties that won iceland's parliamentary elections in april announced on wednesday that they had agreed to hold a referendum on eu membership as part of the arrangements for forming a new government. negotiations with the eu, which started in 2010, will not be resumed for the time being. we will not continue negotiations on eu accession until the referendum is held declared the winning parties, two centre-right and eurosceptic groups: the independence party and the progressive party. the government they form is due to start work on thursday, almost a month after the april 27 elections. both parties won 19 seats in the 63-seat parliament. negotiations with the eu, which started in june 2010, were suspended ahead of the elections. the parties in the new government have said they will evaluate the progress of these talks. the practical issues of the referendum remain to be resolved.
in writing. − the situation in the capital of south sudan is very tense and clashes are taking place between different ethnic groups. on december 16, president salva kiir announced that he had foiled a coup attempt by former vice president riek machar. in july, kiir dismissed machar and the entire government. machar has fled the capital and is currently being sought. the government says 10 officials have been arrested, including former ministers. salva kiir is a dinka and machar is a nuer. on 17 december, un secretary-general ban ki-moon called kiir to make a 'proposal for dialogue' with his opponents, said ban ki-moon's spokesman martin nesirky.
in writing. − on 16 january 2014, the european parliament adopted a resolution on an eu strategy for the homeless. as homelessness is the most extreme form of poverty, tackling it has become a priority in the europe 2020 strategy initiative european platform for cooperation against poverty and social exclusion. in the plenary vote i supported the adoption of the resolution because it calls for immediate action to combat poverty. calls on the european commission to develop a strategy to combat homelessness without delay, with the long-term objective of putting an end to homelessness;
in writing. − as a result of the economic and financial crisis, the problem of homelessness has affected many eu member states on an unprecedented scale in recent years. although homelessness has become a priority of the eu's poverty reduction policy under the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce the number of people living in poverty and at risk of social exclusion by at least 20 million, it remains a major social problem. it is therefore necessary to develop without delay a union strategy to tackle homelessness, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, which would play a supporting and complementary role to the comprehensive actions undertaken by member states at national, regional and local level, in particular those concerning housing, preventive strategies to reduce evictions and cooperation with relevant aid organisations providing support, counselling and guidance to homeless people. i voted against the criminalization of homelessness that is happening in some countries. poor material conditions should not be penalized and member states should focus on helping and creating opportunities for those affected by poverty.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion by 20 million by 2020. however, homelessness is not only an extreme form of social exclusion, but also a situation from which self-management and reintegration are significantly hampered. it is also worrying that since 2008 the problem of homelessness in the eu has become more acute. citizens affected by extreme poverty or homelessness are unable to fulfil their potential or to take effective care of themselves and their loved ones. they are also more prone to health problems, aggression, and various forms of addiction and malnutrition. their significantly reduced level of participation in the institutions of social life effectively limits their ability to exercise even their basic rights. especially dangerous to society is the growing number of families with children living in poverty and homelessness. children growing up in such conditions are not only exposed to a number of dangers, but their connections with society are damaged from an early age, which can result in the wasting of lives and the potential of many valuable individuals. the eu should continue to support the actions of national governments, in particular in terms of data exchange, experience of trends and effective remedies. the key principle here should be to identify the causes and effectively address the situations that lead to poverty and homelessness.
in writing. − the text of the resolution stressed that homelessness constitutes a violation of fundamental human rights and therefore needs to be addressed. as this phenomenon has increased significantly in many member states in recent years, the document calls for an integrated union strategy. it calls for the use of european funds to combat homelessness and for the establishment of measurable rules to monitor member states' progress in combating the phenomenon. it also calls for a comprehensive research programme to build knowledge and exchange experience in tackling homelessness as part of the eu strategy to combat homelessness. building on national and regional strategies, the eu strategy would end street homelessness by 2015.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it's good to be back in cambodia and laos. there are things happening there that we can't accept. after the recent elections, which are hardly considered to meet international standards, there have been mass protests caused by both the wage situation of factory workers and the political situation. excessive use of force by police and special forces has resulted in several deaths and arrests, and many injuries. these are facts we must take into account. we must call on the cambodian government to change this situation, to talk to the opposition, to take care of all the wounded. i also call on and appeal to the high representative to keep us on the lookout. i believe that perhaps a visit by a un special envoy will help resolve the situation. as for laos, i agree with the previous speakers that the situation of sombath somphone must be clarified by the lao government. i also call on the high representative and the member states to keep us on the lookout.
on behalf of the s&d group. cambodia is a country of enormous social inequality, poverty of half of its citizens who live on less than a dollar a day, selective application of the law and impunity in the name of defending economic interests. on january 3, security forces attacked a peaceful march and a rally for a pay raise, killing five people and injuring more than 30. we demand that the cambodian authorities investigate swiftly the use of weapons in the name of public order and security, release unjustly arrested protesters and human rights defenders, and effectively guarantee the right to assembly and association that is enshrined in the constitution. in light of the doubts about the fairness of the elections last july, it is also important to launch an independent investigation into the matter. if there is no progress on human rights and respect for land rights, we will have to suspend our negotiations on investment protection agreements. i also call on the high representative to address the issue of violations of civil and political rights in laos, where an effective investigation into the reported enforced disappearances is needed.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! some of you have pointed out that we dealt with mr. somphone's situation a few months ago. that's right, i was in that debate, too. he and those in his situation expect us to be consistent in standing up for their rights and the rights of those they are fighting for. so what unites our debate today about cambodia and laos is the situation of human rights representatives and human rights activists. the appeal that should come out of this house is for the effort to continue. and it's a call to us. it is also an appeal to intensify efforts, an appeal to the member states of the european union and to the high representative, mrs ashton, to provide human rights defenders in these two countries with material as well as political and moral assistance. they have a right to expect that of us.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the events of the past few weeks in bangladesh have been very disappointing. we expected the elections to be an opportunity for a peaceful confrontation between rivals on the political stage and an eventual transfer of power. no, that's not what happened. the resolution is therefore the right response, and it responds to the great interest shown in bangladesh by the european union's position. there are many people out there who are waiting for us to speak, to speak on the issues that are critical today: conflicts not only political but also religious. we are concerned about the fact that christians were attacked and we are concerned that this happened on the day of the vote, we are concerned about the scale of the rape and violence on the day of the vote. we should send a clear signal of interest and a clear signal of support to those forces that are seeking to calm the situation in bangladesh and to reach at least a minimum agreement on the way in which power is to be exercised between the two main political forces.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. more than 300 people have been killed in bangladesh since the beginning of 2013, including 18 on election day. this is the highest number of victims of violence since bangladesh gained independence and this fact is of course very worrying. the economic and social progress that has been achieved in bangladesh in recent years will be seriously jeopardized if the violence is not stopped. in the case of bangladesh, the issue of the death penalty is also part of the problem, and it is therefore really worthwhile for the bangladeshi authorities to consider abolishing the death penalty. this would contribute greatly to the easing of the mood and the general situation. another important task for bangladesh is to better protect and respect the rights of religious and ethnic minorities, and in particular the hindu minority. political parties should renounce violence in solidarity and clearly distance themselves from all acts of terrorism. conflicts can be resolved through negotiation and compromise, not through violence and rape.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, until this month’s election, bangladesh had emerged as a vibrant democracy in south asia. it was not without its problems, but it was determined to confront those problems. the work of the war crimes court has been a good example of the progressive and forward-looking approach of the awami league government. despite opposition efforts to undermine the court, it has convicted killers who are guilty of the most sickening crimes imaginable. the awami league government has helped to consolidate democracy by abolishing the caretaker government system. the experience of the last caretaker government suggested this was the right approach. the disruptive and reckless behaviour in boycotting the election and the violent extremism of jihad al-islami have been a brutal setback for bangladeshi democracy. hopefully the new government will repair some of the damage done by an irresponsible opposition and its extremist islamist alliance.
mr. chairman, please! the general elections that took place in bangladesh are a denial of any democracy, and not because the opposition did not participate, but mainly because there were no independent observers to expose any fraud. the people's league, which is in power at the moment, won. but was it a victory if, after the elections, the public's discontent was reflected in the tragic events of the burning of 200 polling stations, during which many people died? i think that we should call on the prime minister of the country to start a dialogue with the opposition and not to have fratricidal fights or bloodshed, so that this country does not get into fights that will lead to more victims.
mr. chairman, please! the bangladesh issue is back. two months ago, we raised the alarm in this parliament about the wave of violence that was spreading in this country, caused by the struggle between two opposing political camps. the boycotted january elections by opposition parties led to the awami league's retention of power, sparking new clashes and deepening the country's paralysis. in the election riots last year alone, 300 people were killed, and the same number were injured. the destruction of public property and offices without control. the failure to reach a political agreement despite continued support from the international community is particularly worrying. the authorities of that state should comply with international obligations and cease all forms of repression against members of the opposition party or attacks on national minorities. calls on the ruling party to release all political prisoners and to engage in social dialogue in the country in order to find a lasting solution to the political crisis;
thank you very much. thank you. i'm in the point of order formula. the chairman said that he would only allow two people to speak in the catch-the-eye procedure and that he would not allow the people who participated in the previous debate to speak. i'd like to ask you why? someone who participated in the previous debate should not be discriminated against for wanting to participate in this debate. could you please widen the circle of those who wanted to take part in the debate and allow us to have a say in this matter too?
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the context of today's discussion on the political situation in bangladesh, i would like to express my deep concern and condemn the violence that took place in that country in the run-up to and during the elections in january 2014. i would like to recall that the european union and bangladesh have good and long-standing relations, based, among other things, on the partnership and development cooperation agreement, and that we should not remain indifferent to the current situation in that country. the general elections that took place here on 5 january 2014 did not meet the basic standards of a democratic state. in addition, during the elections, thousands of citizens, especially those belonging to religious and ethnic minorities, were subjected to repression and violent attacks. moreover, there have also been acts of violence against members of the opposition, with many of them still hiding in fear of reprisals. i call on the government of bangladesh to immediately end all forms of repression by the security forces and to protect the vulnerable religious and ethnic minorities. i also call for the release of political prisoners and fair trials and the banning of parties that violate human rights. i also call on the european union to take action and to make full use of all available means, including the european instrument for democracy and human rights, to restore democracy and the rule of law in that country.
in writing. with today's resolution, the european parliament reiterates its deep concern at the very tense political situation in bangladesh. since october 2013, the main opposition grouping bangladesh nationalist party (bnp) and its allies have carried out a series of general strikes to force prime minister hasina wazed of the ruling people's league (al) to step down before the elections. this was to lead to the creation of a transitional bipartisan cabinet. there was no resignation. on 5 january, the bnp called on citizens to boycott the elections scheduled for that day. more than 150 people have died in clashes and violent police crackdowns. this unimaginable scale of violence was directed not only against the opposition but also against the most vulnerable - women, children and ethnic minorities. not only the outcome of the election, but the atmosphere in which it was held is absolutely unacceptable. regardless of the political tensions between the opposition and the government, the priority is to ensure the safety of voting citizens. i regret to say that the bangladeshi government has failed to do this, and the result has been a fiasco in the elections. i would like to appeal to the authorities of this country to de-escalate tensions, eliminate violence and stop political arrests. i also call on the international institutions to help develop a civil dialogue that should form the basis for the next free and transparent elections.
mr. chairman, please! in 78 countries around the world, consensual sexual acts between adults of the same sex are considered a crime. in seven of them, it's punishable by death, in the others by imprisonment. lgbt people are very often discriminated against, they are victims of violence in many parts of the world. they are concerned about the extremely repressive laws recently passed against members of this community in countries such as uganda, india and nigeria. human rights are universal and inviolable and must therefore be protected and guaranteed regardless of a person's sexual orientation or gender identity. the european union, which is committed to the unconditional respect of human rights at its core, should do everything in its power to protect and strengthen the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. the european commission, the external action service and the member states must also take human rights into account in their relations with the countries concerned, which are often parties to agreements with the union.
mr. chairman, please! i would remind you that during the last plenary session of the european parliament we witnessed a very lively debate on the free movement of persons within the european union in the context of the remarks made by the british prime minister, mr cameron. today we begin this session with a discussion of a regulation which is intended to make it easier for our citizens to enjoy the freedoms that freedom of movement gives them. everyone who has ever worked in any office - whether in his own country or abroad - knows that it is a torturous process: getting all kinds of documents, bringing in certificates, certificates, translations - a lot of time, a lot of money and a lot of nerves. of course, it doesn't have to be that way. we can debate here today whether the scope of the regulation should be narrower or as broad as possible. we can ask ourselves and discuss whether we are already at a level of integration that allows the introduction of multilingual identity documents, for example. it seems to be a very simple and very necessary thing. and it is certain that the report by bernard rapkay shows that this is a step forward in meeting the expectations of our citizens who want to live more easily, who want to find the right relief for themselves in a difficult clash with bureaucracy. the report adopted by the legal affairs committee may not have answered many legal questions and concerns, but it certainly does address one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and i would like to remind you that the adoption of this proposal does not mean that the regulation applies to the recognition of the content of documents. it is not merely a means of enforcing the acceptance of an official document which must be submitted to the authority concerned.
in writing. the free movement of persons is fundamental to the functioning of the european union. unfortunately, as the report under consideration points out, in many cases it is precisely because of the change of residence that union citizens, when dealing with the various institutions of the state in which they intend to settle, are obliged to comply with certain formal requirements and to produce documents issued in another member state in this connection. this often entails the need to incur significant financial costs associated with the legalisation, authentication and translation of documents. the simplification of crossborder red tape and the introduction of multilingual official forms recognised in all community countries is therefore a step in the right direction. the proposed catalogue of cases in which multilingual forms would be issued does not interfere with the scope of the substantive law in force in each country. it relates only to the certification of facts, legal acts and legal status of natural persons, without imposing any obligation to recognise their content. the introduction of these will therefore undoubtedly reduce bureaucracy and make it easier for union citizens to function in a united europe.
in writing. i am delighted that this is another plenary session where we are discussing the issue of free movement. i will even say that i am glad that not so long ago the prime minister of the united kingdom spoke so negatively about immigrants who allegedly go to the west to prey on the welfare systems of richer countries. prime minister cameron's words deservedly caused a storm. but i am glad that they have given rise to a debate on the european union itself, on its foundations, a debate that is so important in the run-up to the european parliament elections in may. we have reminded citizens of how much they owe to all of us for the years we have worked for an open and borderless europe. this report does not address perhaps as important a topic as the right to free movement within the eu itself, but it does remind us that there are still many barriers - not at the border, but administrative barriers - that are a major obstacle for people migrating. any simplification of procedures will be welcomed by citizens, which is particularly important in times of image crisis.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the legal affairs committee, we have been saying for years that clear and transparent rules, well-checked by an initial impact assessment, are easier and more seamlessly implemented in member states' systems. we must also remember that the prolonged transposition of specific regulations and directives leads directly to discrimination against citizens of one's own country against citizens of countries where this is done more quickly and better. perhaps not everyone is aware of this, but this is how the europe of several speeds that we so often talk about, albeit in a completely different context, is created in practice. i am pleased that the number of cases brought by the european commission is decreasing year by year, but i am still concerned about the increasing number of delays in transposing legislation and the number of petitions submitted by individual citizens. this growth is most visible in the context of environmental protection, the internal market and transport, as eva lichtenberger mentioned, and therefore in the areas closest to our citizens. in the report by eva lichtenberger, we once again highlight the importance of the 'eu pilot' project in the context of the violation of eu law. i agree that the project itself should be given a legal status that would allow for a quicker procedure and the appropriate involvement of all parties, in particular individual complainants, so that they receive precise basic information about the procedure and its subsequent stages. the intentions and actions of the european commission itself should also remain transparent at all times when it comes to the initiation of infringement procedures by individual member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. european legislation does indeed tend to expand, to regulate quite often those matters which can and should be regulated in the law of the member states. i often attend the european affairs committee meetings in the polish parliament and very often this allegation of breaching the principle of subsidiarity comes up. but i wanted to draw attention to another problem, namely that too often there are situations where european law is enacted without full recognition of the effects of the regulation, without consultation with the people, with the citizens who are affected by the regulation. this is partly a european problem, and partly also a problem in the member states where the information process is not always appropriate. in poland, for example, the recent legislation on meat processing technology has led many small meat processing establishments to virtually cease production because they were unable to use the traditional technology they had. and the big problem was that the european rules did not have full information in the justification of the legal act about what the effects of the act would be, and there was no full consultation at the national level. we really need to pay a lot more attention to this.
madam president! the report refers to three commission communications on better law-making, union regulatory efficiency and smart regulation for smes. the compatibility with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and the amendment of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making to reflect the new legislation contained in the lisbon treaty are unquestionable. i also agree with the rapporteur that the impact assessment prepared by the commission can be improved in terms of verifying ways of improving both the quality indicators and the overall process of the consultation process. nevertheless, new subsidiarity proposals to tighten the so-called red card procedure, which is being called for by the conservatives, could become a dangerous tool blocking the correct and rapid adoption of union legislation. another problematic issue is better lawmaking: while i consider some reductions in regulatory and administrative burdens in the union and in the member states to be positive, some simplifications for smes in the areas of personal data protection, consumer product safety and public procurement can have a negative effect and lead to the creation of double standards detrimental to civil liberties and labour rights. i therefore ask you to support the amendments tabled by my political group to prevent this. only then will the s&d group be willing to support this report.
madam president! i wanted to congratulate you on a great report, not because it was co-authored by my colleague from the same group, mr karim, but because it was very good. i am glad that this debate is being listened to and will be addressed by commissioner and vice-president reding, who is one of the most experienced commissioners and knows perfectly well that there is a french saying that the more we catch, the less we squeeze. the more we try to encompass the acquis communautaire, the less effective the monitoring, the less effective the control by politicians, citizens and taxpayers. i think the reason for the apparent decline in the authority of the european union in the individual member states, including the countries of the new union, and for this wave of euroscepticism that is sweeping across europe right now and will affect the outcome of the european elections in three months and three weeks, is that the european union wants to consume too much, wants to take on too much - i warn against that.
madam president! mahatma gandhi said that the way a civilization treats animals is how it's developed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of animals in the context of the implementation of the directive. the european union has so far set a generally good example for the rest of the world in the treatment of animals. unfortunately, we've had the opposite recent example. i'm referring to the problem of the disposal of stray dogs in romania. we receive thousands of letters from citizens of romania and other countries indicating that the romanian authorities have given permission for a brutal and inhumane solution to the problem of homeless dogs. i've been to romania twice on this, met with the authorities, but i've also been to a few shelters. unfortunately, despite the claims of the authorities about the humanitarian nature of the law of animal euthanasia, the reality i found in the shelters is far from this picture. i appeal to the romanian authorities to uphold european standards for the treatment of stray animals.
madam president! many of us are thinking about ukraine. we have a lot of concerns about the future of this protest. in the heart, compassion for the suffering. we also wish them the best for an agreement and the building of a democratic, free and strong ukraine. but we fear the return of extreme nationalist forces in ukraine, which will limit the development of good relations with neighbors, including poland. we can't forget that. finally, what has the european union done for ukraine? not enough to support the process of democratic and market-oriented change in this country. second, ukraine has not started the process of diversifying its energy supply. the eu should also set european standards for ukraine in the area of internal affairs, justice. fourth, what about transparency in the transformation and functioning of the economy? finally, ukraine cannot be seen through the eyes of moscow, although partnerships between these countries must be encouraged.
madam president! three little questions how do you separate advertising from information about goods or services? when does information become advertising? secondly, how can we protect children and older people from illegal practices? should there be any special solutions in these cases? thirdly, is the proposed consumer protection compatible with the free movement of goods and services, which is a fundamental principle of the common single market?
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? the draft report i am presenting to you today is a response to the european commission's eu justice scoreboard. the commission's communication itself has caused a lot of excitement both in the european parliament and among the member states, so i would like to explain once again what exactly is already wrapped in the legend of the justice scoreboard. it is more or less a compilation of various indicators providing an overview of the efficiency and effectiveness of the judicial system in the member states in the area of civil, commercial and administrative law. the scoreboard is therefore by no means a ranking of quality. it cannot be treated and seen as a political instrument either. i therefore fully agree with the commission's assumption, which was the basis for this document, that an effective and independent judicial system and predictable, timely and enforceable judgments are important elements of an attractive business environment that positively affects market development and investment growth. in addition, the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the european commission has made a useful exercise, but i would like to draw attention to one essential point. the comparison of national judicial systems must be based on objective criteria and data which are objectively collected, comparable and analysable, which is unfortunately not easy in practice. in my report i draw particular attention to a number of problems which arise from the analysis of the commission document. in my view, there was a lack of broader information on crossborder cases, which are often more complex, more complicated than national proceedings. such data would allow us to identify the remaining obstacles that citizens face in exercising their rights under the eu's single market. i also draw attention to the importance of alternative dispute resolution methods in reducing the burden on judicial systems and the costs for all parties concerned. i would also like to point out once again the absolutely crucial issue of training judicial staff in both knowledge of eu legislation and existing legal instruments and knowledge of foreign languages. a very interesting category presented by the commission was the use of new technologies in communication and case resolution. the differences between member states are enormous in this respect. i think we should encourage the use of ict because it can significantly reduce costs and speed up court proceedings. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise once again that the justice scoreboard is primarily intended to highlight good practices and trends that member states can adopt to increase the effectiveness of their legal systems. however, i would be very careful not to go in the direction of a harsh assessment of individual judicial systems, as that is not the intention behind this initiative. the same applies to the extension of the scoreboard to areas outside the european union's competence. i am sure that this kind of action can only discourage and discourage member states from taking any action, because such an analysis is directed precisely, or perhaps even specifically, to member states so that they can consider it.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! the problems of small farms require a broader approach. first, to create the conditions for the maintenance and development of agricultural production. secondly, in support of alternative sources of income, their diversification through the development of services, non-agricultural production or the taking up of work outside the farm. third, the production of public goods for the environment, the maintenance of the landscape or biodiversity requires the creation of a system of valuation of these activities and the establishment of forms of payment for these products. the production functions of small farms are largely limited to self-sufficiency and are characterised by a low link with the market. it's important to produce these public goods. but i want to draw attention to the unique function of this agriculture in terms of jobs that it provides for millions of people. these farms are a reservoir of labour. on the one hand, when the economy shrinks, they take in this surplus labor. when an economy grows, that surplus labor is diverted from itself to the economy. secondly, these farms reduce rural exclusion and poverty. finally, these farms are steeped in tradition, regional, local culture and folk customs. they are the place where local and regional products are made. we're seeing a systematic depopulation of the countryside. to counteract this, it is necessary to create good, sustainable prospects for this group of farms, including in the area of agricultural production, as well as the possibility of obtaining additional sources of income outside agriculture, as i have already mentioned. the reform of the common agricultural policy has started this process. farms up to 10 hectares are exempt from crop diversification, up to 15 hectares do not have to exclude the so-called ecological area. the reform simplifies the system of submission of applications and controls in these holdings. member states have the possibility to support this group of farms under the rural development programmes, the so-called second pillar. significant opportunities for entrepreneurship and job creation by persons associated with these holdings exist under other union programmes. in addition, assistance of a social and welfare nature may also be directed to these holdings under the european social fund. there are also possibilities to support these farms through national programmes, i.e. financed from national budgets. we need to do more to strengthen the action, the openness, the determination to develop entrepreneurship by people in the small farming sector. in conclusion, small farms are a boon, but they are also a problem. they are a benefit because they provide self-sufficiency, they provide self-employment, they have a positive impact on the environment, the landscape, they keep difficult areas alive, especially mountainous areas and the like. they are a problem because it is difficult to earn enough to support a family. so they're not very competitive, they're much more expensive to produce because of higher fixed costs, lack of investment and development resources, technologies are outdated. finally, i would like to point out the need to create the conditions for the development of production based on own raw materials on the farm. it's about local, regional products that would be sold in the local market as part of this short food chain. many changes are required in the areas of taxation, insurance, and control and compliance. it is generally a matter of simplifying, of creating more opportunities for the development of different production, different forms of processing on the small farms, in order to ensure them an adequate level of income.
in writing. some small farms have highly efficient, technologically advanced or labour-intensive production, which generates a decent income for the owners. however, most small farms do not have such facilities. with little access to the market, producing mainly for self-sufficiency, they fulfil socio-cultural functions, providing certain public goods of a natural and landscape nature. such farms are the only alternative to unemployment for the owners. in addition to the cap, other eu policies need to be integrated to address the problems of small farms, which are of varying intensity across europe, to finance social and welfare measures, but also education, training and the creation of alternative jobs. it should be possible to apply national measures of the member states in this respect, with the agreement of the ec, of course.
mr. chairman, please! and again, a very interesting discussion today on the directive on collective management of copyright. it is very much alive today, as we are in the final vote, as we have been in the past, because we have been working on it since july 2012. this is also important for citizens who want to have access to culture, and very often want to have access to it via the internet, but also for creators and distributors of content. this directive is essential because it is about giving them a better choice between collective management organisations that look after the rights of authors. culture must not be limited by borders, and modern technology knows no borders, and i am therefore pleased that today we are adding another brick to the common market, making it work better for both consumers and businesses. with this directive, we are introducing better governance and greater transparency in the functioning of collective management organisations, simplifying pan-european licensing of musical works and thus reducing real costs for users. it is good that we mention in the directive about licenses for the non-commercial use of any rights, categories of rights or types of works and other protected subject matter of your choice, because the creator should always have a choice. the collective management organisations will also be providing more information and i thank mrs gallo and her colleagues for all their work here there will be more information on their websites and this information will be clearer. but despite all this, the directive still does not remove all the barriers to copyright in the 28 different copyright laws. the commissioner mentioned today that the european commission launched a public consultation on copyright reform in december. it is very good that the deadline for replying has been extended, but i join mrs castex and mrs kammerevert in asking why such an important consultation is published only in english and thus limits the circle of citizens and stakeholders who could have an opinion on this important subject. so my question is, what steps will the commission take to engage citizens in law-making next time? will it translate this questionnaire into all the official languages of the european union? and finally, it must be said that all of a sudden it is all over the place - that is how we say it in poland - and i will support the commissioner in this, that it is better to extend the work for a few months to achieve a very good result in the form of this legal act, which affects millions of europeans in a tangible way. it's better to take your time, ask everyone in their own language and get a very good result.
mr. chairman, please! the analysis shows that in 2010 the creative industries contributed around 4,5% of the union's gdp and created 8,5 million jobs in the member states, playing a key role in growth and competitiveness. this is a credit to the creators and to all those working in this sector, which is divided into 28 national copyright systems. the draft directive presented in the commission's july 2012 proposal is a decisive step forward in the area of harmonising the collective management of copyright in the common market. it makes many improvements in terms of the transparency of procedures and the clear and fair distribution of amounts between rightholders. collective management of copyright requires a flexible legal framework and, in the single market, rules governing multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works on the internet. this is an important record in view of the changing distribution realities of cultural works and the original function of the collective management organisation, which granted licences on a territorial basis only. this directive should also contribute to the promotion by organisations of collective management of local and niche repertoires, thereby promoting the cultural diversity of the union in accordance with article 167 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in addition, rightholders should always be able to make their works available also under an open creative commons licence, without abandoning the collective management system. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs marielle gallo, on her very good report and on the results of a perfect compromise.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank marielle gallo very much for the great work we have had the opportunity to do together in the legal affairs committee and also in the culture committee. this is an extraordinary step towards promoting european culture. on the one hand, to protect copyright and the decent remuneration of creators, and on the other hand, to increase access to culture, in this case musical culture. that is why it is so important that, especially at the end of the mandate, we can achieve great success together. but that's a step. first of all, we have increased the transparency of the functioning of collective management organisations, which at the same time forces them to become more competitive and to adapt to a changing market. we also want to promote new business models for the accessibility of music, but also - which is important - to protect cultural diversity. there's a question of the positioning of the music. no country should be discriminated against in access to music. this is very important ... we increase competitiveness and that is why it is so important ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! after months of negotiations, we are today adopting the final version of the directive on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. i have no doubt that this is a finished product and a great example of precision regulation that dynamically adapts to new threats that arise in financial markets. in this context, it is worth recalling once again that the econ committee has made this clear and has unanimously supported the report by mrs mccarthy. the free movement of financial services in conditions of free competition is one of the major achievements of european integration. however, the fair competition underpinning the free market economy and private law presupposes equality of opportunity, and this has often been distorted by unfair market participants who have been allowed to go unpunished. the scale of the potential distortions was illustrated by the libor scandal, which manipulated $350 trillion in financial instruments. with this package, we are creating what appears to be an effective tool to reduce this information asymmetry, which not only poses a threat to security and trust in trade, but also generates suboptimal allocation. in the course of the econ committee's work, we have succeeded, among other things, in clarifying the scope of the regulation in question by clearly indicating which financial instruments may be affected by the infringement. we have managed to harmonize the definition with mifid, to introduce a new category of crime, namely improper disclosure of confidential information, or finally (which seems to me personally a breakthrough) to harmonize the penalty level of 2 and 4 years of imprisonment for the most serious violations in the use and disclosure of confidential information. the aim of the directive is to enhance investor confidence and ensure market integrity for all of us by prohibiting persons with inside information from trading in the financial instruments to which that information relates and by prohibiting market manipulation. the fraud regulation is a good example of the application of the new article 83 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which allows for the introduction of criminal sanctions to ensure the effectiveness of the european union's policy in such a sensitive area. at the same time, i believe that in the case of financial market manipulation, the threat of prison seems to be the most effective deterrent. i shall therefore vote in favour of this report and once again i would like to offer my warmest congratulations to mrs mccarthy.
mr. chairman, please! we are still experiencing the effects of the global economic crisis caused by the irresponsible behavior of the banking industry. the pursuit of profit continues to rob its members of even the minimum moral standards. it is therefore not surprising that the previous directive did not produce the expected results. the regulations it contained were not a good response to widespread practices in the financial sector, and the reluctance of member state governments to effectively penalise abnormal behaviour contributed to the recent financial disaster. i am glad that the member states have finally come to an agreement and reached a compromise, which has led to this directive and the related regulation. however, we cannot be under the illusion that imposing criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation will solve the problems. we must remember that it is not the severity of the punishment that deters crime, but its inevitability. and with that, as the analysis in the report shows, it's not doing very well in europe. let us also remember that no instrument will be fully effective unless the uk implements it. without the city of london recovering , there is no improvement in the situation in the other member states ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to request a waiver of immunity. i am opposed to the institution of immunity, and therefore i would ask that you waive immunity in this case. that's a dirty word, and i expect the immunity to be lifted. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i am pleased that greenland wishes to join the kimberley process. the trade in blood diamonds has financed many civil and cross-border wars, especially in africa. through the smooth functioning of the kimberley process, many guerrilla military groups have lost one of their most lucrative sources of funding. in addition, the number of countries exporting blood diamonds has been significantly reduced. all participants in the process should give greater weight to the fight against diamond smuggling so as not to undermine their efforts.
in writing. - the request concerns the admission of greenland to participate in the certification of diamond ore for commercial purposes by allowing the export and import of the ore to other participants in the certification scheme, provided that each import and export case is verified and, in the case of exports, certified by the union authorities. the kimberley process, an initiative of governments, industry and civil society, aims to stop the flow of conflict diamonds used by rebel movements to finance wars with legitimate governments. as a member of the european parliament and a representative of the public, i cannot support the human rights violations in the diamond mining process, which is why the admission of new members to the kimberley process is an important part of eliminating diamonds from an unknown source. greenland gained autonomy from denmark in 1979 and, despite considerable powers, still depends on external funding. greenland is not a country, so it cannot be a party to the kimberley process. allowing greenland to join the kimberley process would attract potential investors in the mining sector and support greenland's economic development. the fact that it is the only overseas territory to have joined the european union is also a reason to support the initiative. in addition, the moral aspect of the decision-making process has decided that i will vote in favour of the adoption of the draft resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 as regards the inclusion of greenland in the kimberley process certification scheme.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i am pleased that greenland wishes to join the kimberley process. the trade in blood diamonds is a problem that the international community has long struggled to deal with. this has financed many civil and cross-border wars, especially in africa. through the smooth operation of the kimberley process, the guerrilla military groups lost one of the most lucrative sponsorship opportunities for their activities. the good news is that greenland, after joining the kimberley process, will be able to export rough diamonds with a certificate of origin. i hope that the funds thus obtained will help the economic development of greenland and support the indigenous people of the region.
in writing. - importation of rough diamonds into the community is only possible if the following conditions are met: (1) the rough diamonds must be declared to the community body upon importation and the relevant kimberley certificate endorsed (issued) by the competent authority of the participant must be presented; (2) the rough diamonds must be placed in containers preventing unauthorised access and the seal used by the participant when exporting must be intact; (3) the certificate must clearly identify the consignment to which it relates. if the raw diamond material is brought into the community through the polish part of the community customs border, it should be placed under the transit procedure in order to deliver the goods to the competent community authority. the importer is responsible for the appropriate transport of the raw diamond and the costs thereof. the community authority has the choice of one of the following ways to check that the contents of the container are in accordance with the particulars on the relevant certificate: • it may open any container for such verification or • it may identify containers to be opened for such verification on the basis of a risk analysis or an equivalent system which allows for a thorough examination of the load of the diamond ore, the community authority being obliged to complete such verification without undue delay.
in writing. - union-wide credit transfers and payment orders have not yet reached the same level of sophistication, as a payment order is a more complex instrument than a transfer order and therefore the transition to an eu-wide payment order requires a much larger commitment of resources than the transition to an eu-wide transfer order.
in writing. - the international convention on the safety of fishing vessels, adopted in 1997 at the torremolinos conference, was the first international instrument on the safety of fishing vessels. the convention contains safety requirements for new, offshore fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and above. the ten chapters of the annex to the torremolinos convention concern the construction and fitting out of machinery, electrical installations, fire protection, protection of crews, life-saving equipment, radiotelegraphy and radiotelephony and navigational equipment. the torremolinos protocol of 1999 complements the convention, taking into account technological developments in recent years and the need to provide a reasonable incentive for the ratification of this international legal instrument. the protocol arrangements shall cover unattended machinery spaces, enhanced life-saving measures, life-jackets and thermal protection measures, communication systems and other elements of the gmdss. council directive 97/70/ec of 11 december 1997 establishes the safety standards for tower mills in the countries of the european union.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. good transposition of legislation while maintaining the transparency of procedures is a problem in many eu member states, including my own country. the 29th annual report on the application of union law for 2011 indicates that good practices for transposing legislation from the union to national level should be developed. my group and i are in favour of transparent legislation that does not over-regulate the lives of citizens and the conduct of business.
in writing. - the report adopted today, the 29th, is an important element in the procedure for monitoring the application of eu law by the member states. according to commission figures, the number of new infringement procedures fell from 2100 in 2010 to 1775 in 2011, while the number of delays in transposition increased significantly. the 763 such deficiency procedures opened last year represent an increase of 60% on the previous year. this is reflected in petitions from eu citizens and residents, showing the number of breaches of eu law, especially in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights, and proving that incomplete transposition or incorrect application of eu law continues to be a problem in many eu member states. statistics do not fully reflect the problem and the commission does not have sufficient means to systematically identify and correct shortcomings in the implementation of eu law. the eu pilot system, which has been in place since 2008, remains the hope for change and may soon be given legal status to allow its wider use and thus a reduction in the number of infringement proceedings.
in writing. - the correct application of eu law is one of the pillars of the eu treaties and a central element of the regulatory efficiency and effectiveness programme (refit) introduced by the commission. the 30th annual report on monitoring the application of eu law shows the performance of member states in applying eu rules. at the end of 2012, the number of infringement proceedings was lower than in previous years. the number of cases under other conciliation mechanisms, such as the eu pilot, has increased. this reflects the commission's determination to work with member states to address problems and improve compliance.
in writing. - i think meps should not use immunities to evade responsibility. during the criminal investigation, the immunity should be waived in order to resolve the case.
in writing. - the report adopted today on promoting free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain official documents is of great importance to the citizens of the european union. freedom of movement and employment have enabled many europeans to live or stay temporarily, for example for study, work or simply for leisure, in an eu member state other than their own. all these people may have contact with the administration of the member state in which they are staying, either on tax or social security matters, or as students with the administration of a university, and a number of bureaucratic barriers may arise. the administration may require a certified translation of documents or an apostille, and this not only involves a great deal of effort but also costs for citizens. these issues are of fundamental importance for the internal market as they affect the practical functioning of the fundamental freedoms of the union. administrative formalities discourage many citizens from moving to another member state. i supported the report because, by abolishing the additional formalities required in crossborder situations, it is an important step towards making it easier for citizens to enjoy the freedom of movement to which they are entitled.
in writing. - europe has become mobile. the principle of free movement of persons works well, allowing our citizens to work, study or simply move to any of the member states. this is undoubtedly a merit of the european union fulfilling its most important objectives, and as a member of the european parliament i am extremely proud of this achievement. through this cultural exchange, we broaden our horizons: not only do we learn about the customs and ways of life of other nations, but we also learn new ways of solving problems, we see many things from a completely different perspective and sooner or later we see how much benefit such an exchange of experience can bring. it is therefore of the utmost importance that europeans have as little difficulty as possible with the administrative procedures necessary to enjoy a comfortable stay abroad, whether for business, study or tourism. this report proposes, inter alia, the introduction of universal, multilingual forms to facilitate administrative procedures of an international nature and suggests some solutions to the issue of acceptance of documents translated in a country other than the one where they are submitted. the author also wants to reduce costs for both stakeholders and administrative bodies, as well as to reduce the amount of potential fraud and to promote mutual trust.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rapkaya report because i consider it an important step towards facilitating and eliminating unnecessary formalities in the free movement of persons. this issue concerns the many millions of union citizens who reside or stay temporarily in a member state other than their own. for these people, administrative barriers, which are complex and often costly, often discourage them from settling or doing business abroad. i realise that this is a complex issue and not all the changes proposed can be implemented overnight, but i think this report is quite balanced and reasonable. i agree with the rapporteur that the principle of mutual trust should apply in the common internal market and that copies certified as being in conformity with the original made in one member state should therefore remain valid in all community countries. i also consider it justified to accept uncertified translations and, if necessary, to prepare a certified translation, the costs of which should be borne by the requesting authority.
in writing. - the free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union. one of the greatest obstacles to this freedom is the excessive bureaucracy faced by citizens and businesses. this bureaucracy is manifested in the excessively stringent conditions to which the individual documents required to be produced for the purpose of dealing with a particular case must meet. this is contrary not only to the principle of free movement of citizens but also to the principle of freedom to conduct economic activities, which in turn has a major impact on the free movement of capital, services and labour. excessive restrictions therefore undermine the fundamental freedoms that are the foundation of the european union's free market. the introduction of legislation liberalising the requirements for receiving certain official documents will unlock this freedom and will undoubtedly reduce the waiting time for citizens to deal with specific matters.
in writing. - according to the latest eurostat data, in 2011, some 12 million european citizens were living in a member state other than their country of origin. these figures are then added to the equally important numbers of people living abroad within the eu for a limited period of time, such as students or workers. following the guidance published by the commission in a strategy paper highlighting the main criticisms of the internal market raised by citizens and businesses, most of these were directed at administrative and bureaucratic difficulties. i therefore believe that today's vote, which aims to simplify administrative procedures and the acceptance of certain public documents, is a decisive step towards making life easier for millions of european citizens who often have to deal with the bureaucracy of an eu country other than their own.
in writing. - the draft regulation aims to reduce formalities and make it easier for citizens who frequently cross the border. today, a large number of eu citizens live in a member state other than their own, and the number is growing. often, the administrative formalities are very complicated. citizens may have documents legalised by the authorities of one member state, but still be required to pay for sworn translations or for the production of certified copies of official documents. the needs of citizens, not government officials, are paramount, and we should continue to work to improve the free movement of people and reduce red tape.
in writing. - the report calls for the abolition of some of the existing formalities, which is in the interest of citizens and the economy of europe as a whole. this is particularly important for some polish citizens and entrepreneurs who are abroad in other eu countries and face difficulties in understanding the administrative situation in their country and incur additional costs through the translation of documents. the abolition of additional formalities for certain official documents, such as certified translations or legalization through diplomatic channels, will undoubtedly benefit union citizens. the authentication and translation of documents such as certificates of education and civil status certificates recognised in each eu country is one of a number of proposals that will help to eliminate administrative problems and speed up official procedures. modernising member states' administrations and administrative cooperation and reducing widespread suspicion of union citizens by shifting the translation burden from the applicant to the authority concerned will go a long way towards eliminating excessive bureaucracy and introducing the principle of mutual trust, while introducing multilingual eu standard forms will make life easier for citizens and businesses operating across borders. in view of the above, i shall vote in favour of the report on promoting the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain official documents in the european union.
in writing. - the european commission has taken another step towards reducing the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. currently, the formalities to be completed to register official documents, such as a birth certificate, in another eu member state are too much. citizens who move to another eu country have to spend a lot of time and money to prove that official documents (such as birth certificates or marriage certificates) issued in their home country are authentic. this also applies to the so-called apostille seal (otherwise known as the apostille clause), which is issued by a public authority as proof that an official document or the signature of an official on a document is authentic. for example, they often have to provide a variety of official documents certifying their legal status when operating in another country. these requirements date back to a time when a country only recognized official documents that were issued by the foreign ministry of another country. however, just as we recognise national court judgments, we should be able to trust the civil registry office of another eu country that issues the birth certificate, without the need for a guarantee from the relevant ministry of foreign affairs, ministry of justice or other authority. the european commission has therefore today proposed to remove the apostille stamp and other confusing administrative requirements for the certification of official documents that apply to people living and working in other member states.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i voted today in favour of the report on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures because parliament's amendments have enabled the european commission's proposal to be supplemented by provisions which are important from the point of view of workers. the rapporteur, sari essayah, has filled in the gaps, particularly in health and safety. we were interested in the provision that indicates the need to periodically review existing directives to ensure an appropriate level of health and safety protection in the event of the presence of hazardous substances and mixtures in the workplace. we must not forget that one of the main aims of both eu and international legislation is to create good working conditions. the dynamic changes taking place in the economy, linked both to scientific progress and to the internationalisation of markets, require an appropriate response from the union legislator. this can only be achieved by monitoring the effectiveness of existing regulations, especially since they are contained in as many as five directives.
in writing. - in the context of the free movement of goods, appropriate and transparent classification, packaging and, above all, labelling of mixtures is of the utmost importance. in the interests of competition and consumer protection, the harmonised rules on the classification, packaging and labelling of mixtures and substances are intended to protect consumers from the harmful effects of chemical agents to which they are exposed through contact with them. many of these substances are carcinogenic or mutagenic, and have a very negative effect on reproduction and respiratory sensitisation. many of these substances are biocidal and are used not only by professional operators and farmers but also by individual amateurs. it is therefore necessary to harmonise the rules on this matter already at community level, which is of fundamental importance for the protection of human life and health.
in writing. - information on the hazards of chemicals is provided by means of standard warnings and pictograms on labels and in safety data sheets. the new terms replaced the previously used wording: • mixtures instead of preparations • hazardous instead of dangerous • pictograms instead of symbols • hazard statements instead of r statements indicating the nature of the risk • precautionary statements instead of s statements indicating the conditions of safe use • warning words (e. g. danger, caution) have replaced the hazard statements. the new red-framed pictograms are gradually replacing the familiar orange warning symbols. in most cases, the decision on the classification of a substance or mixture is taken by the supplier. this is called self-classification. in some cases, the decision on the classification of a chemical is taken at community level to ensure appropriate risk management. this applies in general to the most dangerous substances: carcinogens, mutagens or substances with harmful effects on reproduction, substances with allergic effects on the respiratory tract, biocidal products or plant protection products. all previous harmonised classifications of substances drawn up under previously applicable legislation (the dangerous substances directive) have been converted to clp harmonised classifications. suppliers shall be obliged to apply this harmonised classification and labelling.
in writing. - culture and its products are part of our identity. europe has one of the richest traditions in this respect. when we lose even a fraction of these achievements, it means that we lose a fraction of our identity. it's important to remember the creators of this culture, including the contemporaries. until now, many legal frameworks have sought to protect the work of artists and to reward them adequately. however, with the passage of time and the progress of civilization, the existing legal regulations are often unable to cope with their task and to fulfil it to the expected extent. it is therefore necessary to modify and modernise the law so that artists and their works are properly protected in the internet age. it is also important to educate citizens about intellectual property, because until now a large part of the public has been unaware that they sometimes use art illegally.
in writing. - as a singer and songwriter i am happy to see that parliament has taken it upon itself to amend the music copyright legislation currently in place. intellectual property laws are one of the most important policy areas as far as modern culture and technology are concerned. this is especially true in the age of rapid dissemination of media through digital means. however, existing laws were often drafted at a time before the internet and therefore do not reflect the needs of contemporary creators and audiences. it is good to see that the european parliament is taking steps towards making access to music from foreign countries easier while still ensuring fair treatment for its original creators. i for one am anxious to see the effects of this legislation on the music industry, which is why i support this report. hopefully this directive will accelerate the process of creating a fair and comprehensive market for the exchange of cultural goods.
in writing. - the current european legislation on copyright, including music, is incomplete. the shortcomings are financially disadvantaging for authors and performers, and limiting the access of listeners to a wide range of music. this is particularly the case for musicians from small countries such as latvia, whose copyright is not fully represented abroad and who therefore do not receive royalties. i therefore supported the legislative amendments that will allow music distributors in the european union to apply to cross-border copyright management organisations for authorisation to offer music online for download or streaming in several eu member states at the same time or even across the eu, allowing consumers wider legal access to music, including music by latvian artists. artists will be guaranteed timely remuneration for the use of their copyright, as all collective management organisations will have to provide it. the royalty payments will have to be distributed to the musicians as soon as possible and no later than nine months after the end of the financial year in which the royalty revenue was collected. copyright holders themselves will also be able to influence decisions on the management of their rights and to freely choose and change the collective management organisations that represent them. some of the innovations will also apply to the collective agreements themselves. thank you.
in writing. - the problem of the circulation of all intellectual property rights, including, of course, the property rights of authors, is complex and requires great care in the construction of contractual relations. therefore, a professional representative should play an important role in the preparation of transactions in this area, helping the parties to shape the legal relationship in a way that is in line with their expectations and safe for both parties.
in writing. - the situation on the eu music market is very complicated. not only is the functioning of many collective management organisations questionable and has a negative impact on the remuneration of authors, but the licensing process for making music available on the internet is also extremely demanding. in addition, copyright is still struggling with the changes that have taken place in the media market with the widespread digitization. the legislator therefore has a particular responsibility to make up for these backlogs. the directive on the principles of collective management of copyright and related rights and multi-territorial licensing for the exploitation of musical works on the internet is undoubtedly a breakthrough in this respect. the amendments made by parliament not only extended the scope of the directive to non-eu collective management organisations operating in the eu, but also clarified the provisions protecting the niche repertoire. this is a very important step towards promoting a multicultural europe, where creators' rights are not a burden but rather an asset to the european economy. i believe that today's report is a key project not only for creators, performers and publishers, but above all for consumers, who should benefit most from the changes proposed by gaining wider access to legally reproduced music.
in writing. - the commission has put its ideas into two documents a directive and a regulation. if they come into force, eu countries will have to treat certain types of market behaviour in the same way and treat them as criminal offences. this is mainly the use of information in the conclusion of transactions that would if disclosed affect investor behaviour or asset valuation. the new rules are intended to cover both regulated markets and otc trading. the new law also aims to punish 'the transmission of false or misleading signals' about the demand, supply or prices of financial instruments and 'the manipulation of prices' at an artificial level. the commission is keen to ensure that a player who is dishonest can expect criminal sanctions in any eu country. only in this way, according to brussels, can it be avoided that criminal proceedings are transferred to countries where the law is the most liberal.
in writing. - energy security is one of our priorities. this is particularly important given the european union's dependence on external energy sources, including russia. the security of our continent in this respect depends not only on contracts for the supply of raw materials but also on a careful analysis of supply and demand. this will enable the product demand and the possible modification of energy supply sources to be determined efficiently. i therefore believe that the obligation for member states to report on possible plans, investments and other details of energy security in each country is justified. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the increasingly popular use of alternative energy sources. these are only partially covered in the report and may be of great importance in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the eu because i have no doubt that the eu needs a general oversight of the energy market in europe. security was one of the union's founding objectives, but it is now understood differently. time has changed the priorities, the military is not as important, energy stability is definitely coming to the fore. today, the countries themselves are pursuing energy policies which are not conducive to achieving satisfactory results in the context of what i have just mentioned. coordination through the commission will be much better. the very idea of informing the commission about the energy situation does not change much, but i believe that this is the first step towards being able to enjoy the benefits of the single energy market in the european union in the future. i hope that this report will lead to further action. in time, we'll see if the idea you presented has produced the results you expected. if so, it will be necessary to seize the opportunity and take the next step towards a united europe.
in writing. - in many countries, pension funds invest in energy grids. in poland, too, but only the australian fund, because the polish ones can't. our brave mps, in three days of stachano-like pace, have passed a law changing the rules of the ofe. there was no time for serious debate and reflection. it is a pity that the opportunity for a powerful investment boost for infrastructure, especially energy and heating networks, was wasted. in many countries, they are invested in by pension funds in particular. networks are a secure, regulated business, where the rate of return is predetermined by the state. in poland, the pension fund also invests in district heating. but it's not a polish fund, it's an australian ifm, which is a shareholder in dalkia polska. dalkia owns the district heating network in warsaw, łódź and poznań, among others.
in writing. - mr. lehne's nomination was approved by the committee on budgetary control by a majority vote, and i also voted in favor of it in today's vote. although mr. lehne's sources of income were very emotional (part of his income came from a law firm that represented large tobacco companies), the explanations he gave seemed satisfactory to me. the german national audit body is mainly made up of lawyers, not auditors, so it is often the case that the german candidate has such experience. i think it's a very good choice and mr lehne will prove to be a good member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. - i congratulate mr. klaus heiner lehne on his appointment as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the european court of auditors. it is the european union's body that monitors the eu's revenue and expenditure and checks that eu finances are managed properly and in accordance with the law. after the closure of the financial year, it shall draw up a report on its activities, which shall be published in the official journal of the eu. the court shall not issue judicial or disciplinary decisions. eto shall have its seat in luxembourg. the eto is composed of 27 members (auditors) elected for a period of six years. poland is represented by augustyn kubik.
in writing. - i supported the report on the enhancement of the role of the court of auditors. this institution is not widely known in europe, including poland, although it performs important functions. its tasks can be compared to the competence of the supreme audit office in poland. in the case of the court of auditors, the large scale of eu budget expenditure subject to audit is an additional factor. between 2014 and 2020, €960 billion is planned to be spent, including €105 billion by poland. that's why the changes we're proposing are so important. first, the adoption of the principle that the members of the court of auditors must be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of the audit bodies in their respective countries. this will enhance the professionalism, in particular the qualifications and independence of the members of the court. second, the court will be expected to cooperate closely with the supreme audit bodies of the member states. both of these changes are appropriate, as they will improve the efficiency of the court's work in examining the legality and regularity of payments from the eu's common budget.
in writing. - to make life easier for businesses and citizens, the commission is simplifying and even withdrawing certain eu rules and regulations. the commission has announced that it will take further action under the regulatory efficiency and performance programme. eu legislation that serves its purpose well is essential to bring about a recovery in the economy and in employment. through the refit programme, the commission has taken the most comprehensive action to simplify eu rules to date. our strong application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality will not undermine the substantial benefits for citizens and businesses of eu law, especially the rules that underpin the single market. the refit package published today presents a pragmatic approach to the future of eu rules, a few months before the 2014 european parliament elections. simpler rules mean more economic growth.
in writing. - the report on the eu action plan against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity raises many concerns because of the nature of the proposed legal solutions. the dignity of every human being, his life and physical and mental integrity are for me the fundamental values on which i base my activities as a member of the european parliament. it also underpins my critical assessment of the report in question. i am against the application of the definition of family to homosexual couples and giving them the rights that they deserve. according to the polish constitution, marriage is between a man and a woman with all the legal consequences, including adoption and the upbringing of children. i think that the disruption of the polish legal order under the guise of a fight for tolerance is incompatible with the rules that have been in force so far at european level, where the principle of subsidiarity plays a dominant role! the report, in turn, introduces a positive discrimination order, giving a privileged position to homosexual persons in various areas of life, including health care. i also find the language used in relation to sex education in educational programmes and youth-oriented programmes to be controversial. the development of non-discriminatory attitudes cannot be imposed by the prevailing legal order tolerance can only be born from the principles and moral values present in each of our families.
in writing. - i voted against a resolution that clearly fits into the ideology of "gender", which says that gender is a matter of choice. the resolution calls for recognition in all eu countries of same-sex marriages entered into in countries that allow it, with the rights reserved for marriages between a man and a woman. under the pretext of non-discrimination, the european commission would mainstream lgbt issues into all relevant eu policies, and member states would be obliged to make citizens aware of lgbt rights, including by including sexual orientation and gender identity issues in all youth education programmes. opposing the threatening draft resolution, the efd group in the european parliament, which includes solidarity poland, proposed an alternative text. several points refer to the values on which the eu is founded, such as respect for human dignity, equality and the rule of law, and call on the european commission and the member states to guarantee fundamental rights for all citizens.
in writing. - in many eu member states people from lgbti groups face daily discrimination, harassment and prejudice across all areas of social and economic life. misconceptions about homosexuality and transgender persons further fuel intolerant attitudes and behaviour towards this community, making it more vulnerable to verbal and physical attacks. aiming to tackle this reality, the european parliament requested in the past years to develop a roadmap for equality for lgbti. the current report builds on these appeals. the report calls on the commission to make proposals for addressing non-discrimination of lgbti in employment, education and health in the field of citizenship, families, free movement, freedom of assembly and expression. although this report faced a degree of hostility from conservative groups, its core provisions respect the principle of subsidiarity, and they rely on existing eu policies and frameworks. accordingly the report recommends that these tools be made available and apply equally to lgbti persons. i believe that lgbti persons deserve to be treated with the same degree of respect and dignity as any other citizens in the ue. this report is a positive step towards achieving this goal.
in writing. - the european parliament came up with another document which not only blatantly violates subsidiarity, but is itself a pathetic illustration of ideological fanaticism. homophobia is a stick with which today’s fanatics beat everyone who dares to disagree with them. there is no greater nonsense than to claim that homosexuals are victimised. the opposite is true. they are the most privileged group today. the homosexual radicals are becoming increasingly radical because they can get away with anything. the lesbian hoodlums physically attacked the belgian archbishop in the university of brussels; the scholars who raise even the slightest doubts about this lamentable institution called homosexual marriage are bullied and harassed. the list of such disgraceful actions is long and gets longer every day. the european parliament should speak in defence of the real victims, and not become an accomplice of the victimisers.
in writing. - as a member of the european parliament, i support all actions to combat homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. i voted against the report by mrs ulrike lunacek. the main reason for my decision was the formal context of this report. it contains provisions which are in clear contradiction with the principle of subsidiarity. this principle governs both eu and member state competences, i.e. it allows the eu to intervene only when the lisbon treaty so provides the remaining issues are the exclusive competence of national parliaments and member state governments. in practice, the lunacek report is an attempt to force member states, such as poland, to recognise same-sex partnerships or marriages and their consequences, when such do not yet exist in our country's legal order (e.g. same-sex partnerships, same-sex marriages, adoption of children by same-sex couples, etc.). the question of introducing a partnership institution in poland is the exclusive competence of the polish constitutional institutions and not of the european parliament. i would also like to emphasise that i am a strong supporter of equality and the protection of the fundamental rights of eu citizens. for this reason, i cannot agree with the provisions of the resolution on positive discrimination against any social group, for example in the field of health care. i stress that all citizens, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, etc., should have equal access to health care or other services.
in writing. - the adoption of the document by the ep will in practice mean a wide range of rights for the minority, but unfortunately also restrictions for the majority. this project will give homosexuals a privileged position in the labour market, as sexual orientation can become a decisive criterion for employment. for example, if an employer does not hire a gay person, he may be a 'homophobic criminal'. the lunacek report commits the european commission to the most vocal lgbt community demands for guidelines that will force eu member states to respect the right to family reunification so that all forms of family life are legally recognized in national laws. this means that civil partnerships and marriages, even those concluded outside the country, are recognised in all eu countries. the same will be true of legal gender recognition. after the lgbt lobby is satisfied with the outcome of the vote on the report, there will be no obstacles to gay marriage and gender selection. it seems that among the sexual minority there is another minority - the lgbt elite - a handful of people who want to decide everything and for everyone. a minority that intends to take away the rights of the majority and become a group with exceptional opportunities, with a wide range of privileges.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. unfair practices by traders are a nuisance to consumers. in particular in the new member states, where the rules on protection of transactions still leave much to be desired, traders have been using clearly misleading methods for years. misguided advertising is often used, such as the publication of inaccurate information in brochures and catalogues. the potential of this directive should be fully exploited in order to increase consumer confidence in transactions on european markets. in this respect, i agree with the principle of disciplining countries which continue to violate it. it also appears necessary to strengthen cooperation between national institutions responsible for protecting consumer rights. i hope this will improve the efficiency and reduce the cost of the claims.
in writing. - i believe that in an era of increasing digitalisation and dominance of online shopping, we need to look more closely at the rules ensuring that consumers' rights are protected when they transact in the internal market. increasingly, unfair commercial practices are found on forums, social networks and blogs, where messages of an advertising nature are hidden in the form of comments. member states should therefore warn consumers against all forms of unfair practices by organising information campaigns and by publicising fraud in the media. the success of this is dependent on the uniform enforcement of the directive in all member states, which has unfortunately not been uniformly observed by all member states. in order to ensure that consumers are effectively assisted in the exercise of their rights, member states must also implement the directive on alternative dispute resolution and online out-of-court dispute resolution. i think it is also very important to strengthen the role of consumer organisations and to strengthen the cooperation of these associations with the relevant national authorities responsible for implementing the directive.
in writing. - the unfair commercial practices directive has been in force for several years now, and there is no need to amend it at present, but the correct implementation of this directive into national legal systems is crucial. after these few years of application of the directive, it has become clear that some very onerous commercial practices still exist in the single market. the elimination of those practices is important to increase consumer confidence in transactions on the market and to provide businesses with a higher level of legal certainty. among the misleading marketing practices that cause the most problems for businesses in europe, the issue of dishonest companies offering business directory listings seems particularly worrying. such a listing in business directories is often combined with a form that dishonest companies send out, asking businesses to update information in their business directories, ostensibly free of charge. if the undertakings concerned sign such a form, they are informed that they have signed the contract and will be charged for the costs. i supported the report because it calls, among other things, for the elimination of such practices. the scale of the problem is shown by the figures: over 13 000 complaints from 16 different member states were documented. the smes sector is the most exposed to such practices and the report is therefore an important step towards better implementation of the directive.
in writing. - unfair trading practices are one of the most important obstacles to competition in the european union market. it should be noted that many practices considered unfair and distorting competition have been prohibited at union level. the most important is the prohibition of the sale of products that are not allowed to be legally marketed. the largest group of unfair commercial practices that undermine competition and fair trade are marketing activities involving the use of various forms of consumer awareness raising in advertising. this is particularly true of sub-threshold advertising and advertising that appeals to fear and other emotions. it was therefore of the utmost importance to harmonise the definitions of unfair commercial practices and misleading practices, which differed from one member state to another before the entry into force of the directive.
in writing. - previous attempts at eu harmonisation of the law on unfair competition by means of directives have concerned issues that are at the margins of this area of law (e.g. misleading advertising, advertising in electronic commerce, etc.). however, the multiplicity of regulations on specific consumer protection issues did not, in the view of the european legislator, promote a sense of legal certainty for both consumers and traders, who, in their activities on eu territory, had to take account of the different regulations on commercial practices in the various member states of the community.
in writing. - in march 2013, the european commission published a communication presenting the eu justice scoreboard, a non-binding benchmarking tool designed to present the long-term trends observed in the functioning of national justice systems. it is a tool whose scope is to be gradually increased in terms of areas covered, as well as indicators and methodologies. the commission emphasises that the scope of the table covers those elements of the justice system which contribute to improving the business and investment climate, and thus relates in particular to civil and commercial and administrative (not criminal) procedural matters, thus falling within the framework of the european semester, the europe 2020 strategy, the strengthening of the single market and the eu action programme for citizens. the scoreboard was based on indicators such as length of proceedings, number of pending cases, ict systems for courts, alternative dispute resolution and training of judges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the impact of the development of smart grids at local and regional level. they are the result of intensive technological progress in the information and communication sector and the desire of individual regions to ensure a stable energy supply while maintaining sustainable development. investments in the development of smart grids in the union bring a number of benefits, such as lower energy prices, increased share of renewable energy, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and development of the research and innovation sector. the use of these energy networks is particularly important in disadvantaged regions and island areas where they can bring significant economic benefits and ensure security of energy supply. moreover, the efficiency of these systems will be enhanced if we link their development to the housing, transport, environment and spatial planning sectors. i believe that investing in smart energy systems in individual regions of europe will guarantee the security of energy supply to individual households, while making more efficient use of it for local needs, and at the same time will contribute to the creation of many new jobs.
in writing. - in the coming years, eu regions will have to find a way to ensure a stable, affordable and secure energy supply. in an era of rising energy prices and a world facing climate change, the challenge of establishing a reliable energy supply system is a major one. in the new financial perspective 2014-2020, we will focus on supporting the energy market transformation with a view to achieving a low-carbon economy in all sectors, using cohesion policy funds. as this is only the beginning of the great process of deploying smart grids in europe, it is necessary to develop a balanced action plan. a large-scale information and promotion campaign to encourage the public to use renewable energy sources will play an important role, including by educating eu citizens on how to use the lowest possible prices and save energy while improving efficiency. smart grids mean security of energy supply and a significant reduction in dependence on fossil fuels, as well as the creation of new jobs. the key to their effective implementation in each eu region will be openness and transparency in the relationships between local authorities, businesses, industry and citizens, so that they can reach the remote and poor areas of europe. the experience gained over the years has shown that this type of synergy brings much greater and longer-term benefits to the regions. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. - intelligent networks are essential to solving today's problems. aging infrastructure and increased demand are making the system inefficient. therefore, cooperation initiatives in all fields should be pursued to create modern smart grids to reverse this trend. but without local solutions, europe cannot cope with this challenge. it should not be forgotten that the networks must also be a source of information on the level of consumption, the range of efficiency. we have little time left, and that is why we need to make key decisions for the next decade.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. the functioning of small farms is vital from the point of view of the european union. these small farms face many problems: lower efficiency with more employment and diversification of production. in my country - poland - these farms are often run by elderly people whose children do not necessarily want to continue to live off the land. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we are able, at union level, to provide adequate support for small farms.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr czesław aszerski because i am particularly concerned about the plight of small farmers and their inhabitants. in poland, my country of origin, small farms of 1 to 5 ha account for more than 50% of the total number of farms. i am concerned about the adverse changes taking place in these regions, where demographic and economic processes are leading to an increasing depopulation of rural areas and the abandonment of agricultural practices. in order to safeguard the valuable natural, landscape and cultural resources cultivated on small farms, appropriate solutions should be developed to support and promote their agricultural production. the objectives of the common agricultural policy post-2020 must take into account the specificities of small family farms, with a view to improving their competitiveness and profitability. very often, these types of farms are not able to sustain themselves solely on agricultural production, which is often used for their own consumption, and their owners are therefore often forced to take on additional activities, such as agro-tourism. this is why it is so important to develop sub-programmes under pillar i and pillar ii of the cap to support small farms. the existing funds from cohesion policy or the european social fund should also be used effectively to contribute to the development of technical infrastructure, educational facilities and medical centres in the rural areas concerned.
in writing. - it is very important that the european parliament has adopted a report on the future of small farms. it is the first such document in which parliament has fully addressed this important sector in agriculture and the countryside. in the eu, two thirds of farms have less than 5 ha of arable land. the non-productive functions of these farms are important. they are more environmentally friendly, contribute to the maintenance of the landscape and biodiversity. they also provide jobs for many millions of people and play a significant role in maintaining local traditions and customs and in producing regional products. it is important to highlight the marked differences in the situation of these farms not only in the so-called old and new union, but also within individual countries. small farms that benefit from cap support have been better organised for decades, forming producer groups, various associations, have different forms of processing, are also better equipped and more connected to the market, which increases their competitiveness and profitability. in contrast, small farms in countries that have joined the eu in recent years are technically under-resourced, production-oriented, self-sufficient, poorly organised in producer groups and little connected to the market. they are mainly social. moreover, some of these farms exist without the necessary economic infrastructure. forms of support for this group of holdings must therefore be diversified.
in writing. - do we need small farms? is it worth supporting the smallholders of these smallest farms, sometimes one or two hectares? or should we go for big, modern, rich farms? can consumers from the same village, from neighbouring towns and cities sustain such hosts? and can they "sell" themselves, sell what they produce? the average farm size in greater poland is less than 13.5 hectares. that's more than the polish average, which is just over 10 hectares. greater poland is in the middle of this list, the smallest farms are in southern poland (even about 4 hectares in lesser poland and the podkarpacie), the largest average of 30 hectares is in the west pomerania voivodeship. do you know, for example, a village where, as far as the eye can see, the land is in one hand and the village is completely changed, both in terms of the landscape and the rural community, where almost no one lives anymore? how much land does a farmer have to have to support his family on a farm? however, the number of small farms is declining systematically. however, i hope that small farms can count on the support of the european union and the state in the near future. but under certain conditions.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. the systematically growing potential of online commerce is conducive to the creation of a unified digital landscape. the importance of services linked to the delivery of ordered goods to consumers is also bound to increase. and while more and more companies are offering logistics services, there are still significant barriers to the growth of online commerce. delivery problems are now the most common reason for abandoning online transactions. the cost is often a disincentive, as the item offered at an attractive price, once the consignment has been added, is no longer competitive with a traditional store. in order to meet consumer expectations, measures should be taken to increase the transparency of the operation of this service sector and to guarantee the reliability, speed and security of transactions. an effective complaints mechanism is also of great importance.
in writing. - according to eurostat, 59% of eu citizens shop online. the transport and delivery of products purchased online is the high-water mark of the e-commerce chain, and it is therefore essential to provide affordable and high-quality courier and postal services throughout europe. i supported this report because the creation of an integrated parcel delivery market will help to increase customer confidence and to exploit the full potential of e-commerce. e-commerce has not only broadened the range of goods available to consumers, but has also become an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises to reach new markets and thus to grow and create jobs. however, this trade is still limited on a cross-border scale. many smes are unable to meet consumers' needs for affordable or faster shipping services in cross-border trade. this is because it is the small firms that face the higher costs or administrative barriers to doing business in the eu. the european parliament therefore pointed out in the document, among other things, the problem of complex vat rules, which are a major obstacle for businesses, the need to introduce a uniform vat return as soon as possible, the need to create conditions that encourage smes to develop and operate in the eu and to enable small businesses to compete on comparable terms with large players in the e-commerce market.
in writing. - i voted today for the report on the integrated parcel delivery market to call on the european commission to continue to work with the postal sector to integrate the european market and reduce the costs of cross-border parcel delivery, in particular in the areas of labelling, easy pick-up and delivery solutions, parcel tracking, customer service centre cooperation and complaint management. i believe that it will be impossible to build a fully integrated market without stimulating cross-border e-commerce. in europe, the level of cross-border electronic commerce remains low and in some member states it is only marginally present even on the national market. research shows that people are apprehensive about buying cross-border mainly because of the difficulties of delivery. one way of removing them may be to create positive experiences in the internal market. if someone has not bought a product online in their own country, they are unlikely to do so in another country. therefore, it is first and foremost for member states to take measures to stimulate electronic commerce, including, in particular, ensuring a transparent and fair supply system. we do not need new regulations at eu level. the european commission should first of all review existing regulations, because as the rapporteur rightly noted, there are problems with their proper implementation and enforcement. only after this assessment will we know whether the problem is in law or in practice.
in writing. - the exchange of goods via the internet is a very significant part of trade in europe. however, studies show that there are wide differences in the use of this form of purchasing between member states. in addition, there are still many difficulties in conducting international transactions. according to the report, many consumers are abandoning this form of trade due to supply problems. high shipping costs, delays, damage to goods or unclear information on return policies are the main obstacles to efficient and secure online shopping. it is therefore necessary to take appropriate steps to improve this form of trade in europe. the mechanisms proposed in the report, such as european-wide tracking systems, proper labelling and improved call centres for complaints, are essential tools for improving e-commerce in the eu. appropriate regulation and efficient cooperation between service providers are essential to enable consumers to enjoy this form of buying and selling, which is becoming increasingly popular worldwide.
in writing. - green papers are documents issued by the european commission. they are designed to regulate narrow areas of european integration. the green paper 'an integrated market for parcel delivery services as a boost to e-commerce in the eu' aims to make it easier for eu citizens to buy and sell online across the union. mac, after having examined the documents, submitted its comments on the proposed solutions. to facilitate e-commerce between people in different eu countries, buyers should be guaranteed, where possible, that the prices of shipments from foreign countries actually reflect the cost of delivering a parcel. in other words, mac wants to focus on developing a way to avoid overstating the delivery costs. this is a problem in our home market and the practices of the sellers on allegro, and i suspect that there are abuses in international trade as well.
in writing. - the steel industry is a very important part of the european economy, having contributed to the creation of the european coal and steel community over 60 years ago, which initiated the process of european integration. it is a sector of great strategic importance and the basis for many industries such as the automotive, construction and electrical industries. despite the huge share of the european steel industry in world production, with the union being the second largest producer of this raw material on a global scale, the industry has suffered greatly as a result of the economic crisis. this has resulted in a 27% lower demand for steel, together with a significant decrease in employment in the industry. i believe that the steel industry is of great importance for the union's sustainable economic growth, which is why i voted today to implement an action strategy to strengthen its competitiveness and innovation in europe. only the adoption of a proper industrial policy will help to bring about a fundamental restructuring change in this industry. i also believe that the functioning of such an energy-intensive industry is dependent on the maintenance of a single energy market that guarantees a sustainable supply of energy at competitive prices throughout the union.
in writing. - whole european industries are going under. the automobile is europe's calling card. the steel industry is collapsing, and so are a number of other industries. europe is losing its lasting competitive advantage in the global market. steel is the primary material of material production, and steel production is a source of co2 emissions, because ore is reduced to elemental carbon in large furnaces, and the by-product is co2 emissions, and scrap metal processing is an energy-intensive process, so again, emissions... the commission's paper says that the eu should be based on recycling, but i warn against getting excited about recycled metal. the point is that for years, the scrap metal has been increasing its copper content, which is difficult to remove from the steel, and its presence causes brittleness, loss of the deep-bedding properties important for the body panels. the process metallurgy is suitable for the production of structural steel. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. these technologies need to be developed. it should be noted that third countries (not subject to climate policy) exporting raw materials are expanding their market access strategies. for example, the problems of extracting rare earth metals. i voted for a policy of free development of industry in the eu, which, unfettered by administrative regulations, will allow us to halt the processes of total decline in the competitiveness of the eu economy.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted today a position which contains a number of demands for the maintenance of a competitive european steel industry. competitiveness in this area is strategic, especially for growth and jobs in europe. unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a decline in steel production in the eu of up to 20%, with many thousands of jobs lost. as a result of the decrease in demand, the union steel industry is still struggling with the effects of the economic crisis. unfortunately, this has resulted in many european betting shops closing. i supported this resolution because it outlines a plan to improve the competitiveness of the european steel industry. the world's leading steel producers are china, russia and the united states, and the european coal and steel community is the foundation of the european union. developing appropriate solutions that will have a stimulating effect on the industry is essential to improve its competitiveness. in particular, supporting demand for steel products, innovation in steel production or the appropriate regulatory framework will be key. this will be a rather long process, but in the long term the aim is to increase demand for european steel. the industry has a high potential for job creation and the steel industry already provides 350 000 direct jobs and employment for several million workers in related industries, so improving its competitiveness is a priority.
in writing. - european steel plays a key role in europe as the competitiveness of our steel production contributes to economic growth and job creation in all member states. the steel industry is currently going through a historic period of great difficulty, because of the economic and financial crisis, which has led to the closure of several plants and the loss of some 65 000 jobs, and the emergence of emerging countries (such as china) on the market. that is why i voted in favour of this report today, because i believe that the time has come to take concrete measures to stimulate demand and to monitor the market effectively. it is also essential to continue investing in development, research and innovation to support competitive and sustainable production.
in writing. - improving the competitiveness of the european steel industry is a very important issue. on 10 june 2013, the european commission launched the 'action plan for a sustainable and competitive steel industry in europe'. the plan focuses on key issues such as, inter alia, ensuring an appropriate legal framework, increasing demand for steel, supporting demand by improving access to foreign markets and ensuring fair competition at international level. however, one of the major challenges for the european steel industry in the coming years will be to plan for the future by engaging in dialogue with employees, analysing environmental impacts and securing further outlets.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i voted in favour of the report, which sets out actions to ensure a framework favourable to the development of a competitive and sustainable steel industry, so that it is able to tackle the structural problems it faces, compete on a global scale and develop a new generation of steel products that are essential for other key european industries. for many years the european commission considered that the steel sector was doing well and did not need any state or commission support, and was able to accept new, sometimes very costly, obligations imposed on it, including taxes closely linked to the increasingly stringent climate policy of the european union. however, this situation has changed and the european union has recognised the crucial importance of the steel sector in the economy. it was noted, inter alia, that it is highly sensitive to economic downturns, unfair competition from third countries or rising production costs that restrict competitiveness. the priority for the european union should be to prevent energy price increases, not to compensate for them. the importance of the energy price level for the competitiveness of the steel sector is illustrated by the fact that the energy price represents around 40% of the total operating costs. in this context, it is particularly important to identify the factors that drive higher energy prices and then to eliminate those that result from climate policy.
in writing. - the steel industry is a key sector, we will be responsible and decide whether to help or harm it, there are no half measures. you have to know the value of your decisions. it may be that soon we will have only a few stores left. european policy may be ineffective, but the question is who pays the high bill. the question is whether, under the present pressures, it is possible to operate at all, in defiance of the principles of industrial action. we need to define what we care about. it is time to take action for european industry, and we must say with a firm 'yes', there is no other option.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the freedom and democracy group, i object to the proposal by the environment committee and the environment commissioner to shorten the period of opposition to the european commission's backloading initiative. i also request that this matter be put to a roll call vote. it is surprising that only one group has objected to this, given the far-reaching negative consequences of such a decision for the european economy. this inevitably leads to higher electricity prices, less competitiveness of the european economy, more unemployment. today, when energy prices in the united states are twice as cheap as in europe, we should do everything we can to take action in the opposite direction in terms of effect, i.e. to bring down electricity prices and increase the competitiveness of our european economy and of each of the member states.
mr president, we all probably agree here that starting the ssm without clarity on the srm would be very unfortunate. we cannot afford to delay the construction of a european banking union, but we are also aware that the single resolution mechanism is a key pillar of this framework and it must be well done. let me mention two issues which i see as important in the ongoing discussion on the srm: firstly on burden-sharing between home and host institutions during cross-border resolution. this must be based on objective criteria such as size, significance of the host in the group, risk profiles and others. secondly, the need for a credible backstop: its absence would weaken the credibility of the banking union project, keeping in place the sovereign bank link. according to the current council proposal, no common backstop will effectively be available during the first years of the srm, when it may be most needed. backstop problems are severe, especially in the case of opt-ins and especially during the phasing-in period. euro zone member states can eventually access the esm as a backstop; opt-ins would be left without a backstop apart from their national budget. it could be desirable to extend the esm system to the opt-ins, but the backstop will also be crucial in this steady phase and i would prefer to see the negotiations for this period fast-tracked rather than delayed, with the opt-ins being included at the discussion table. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – absolutely, i agree with you. i was myself insisting on having the comprehensive test check done in such a way that all issues, including those relating to sovereign bonds and sovereign assets, are taken clearly into account. so yes, if i understand the translation from german into english correctly, i agree with you that we need a good comprehensive test check.
mr president, if we want a competitive economy that creates jobs, we simply cannot have the highest energy prices in the world. we cannot encumber our industry with regulations that no one else in the world follows. we cannot provide preferential access to our market to countries that have much cheaper energy prices and do not impose any of the same regulatory burdens on their companies. and we cannot have one of the most liberal trade defence regimes in the world. in such conditions, we cannot stay competitive. in the committee on international trade (inta), we concluded that eu trade defence policy needs readjusting in limited circumstances where our producers face various government-inspired distortions. it is a limited step, but a step in the right direction. i therefore urge all of my colleagues to support the inta report as it is. i urge you to reject all amendments, split votes and separate votes, the only task of which is to sabotage the compromise we have reached. finally, i urge you to refuse all procedural tricks and direct this report back to inta for mandate for trilogues. this also means we should not vote for a legislative resolution which, by the way, i consider a dishonest attempt to derail the progress we have made in inta.
in writing. – undoubtedly, the eu needs to create a more comprehensive mechanism for protection against the unfair trade practices of third countries. more and more often, the countries that have raw materials use illegal methods such as double pricing. thereby, their producers exporting to the eu have an advantage over ours as their production costs are artificially lower. the result of inta work on this proposal is not what many of us expected. the report significantly improves the situation of eu producers in trade defence proceedings. we know that some people are unhappy about it, but we have talked about this long enough. i strongly believe that suspending the lesser duty rule best serves the interest of the eu industries. in terms of our slow recovery from the financial crisis, the eu cannot endorse too liberal an approach to the tdi as it will undermine the position of our own producers vis-à-vis those in third countries. however, i do not think that voting on a legislative resolution right now is good idea. given how sensitive this dossier is and how divided the council is, such a move would lead to an institutional deadlock in the second reading.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask my colleague if we have all the information on the state of our industry in europe, the state of our economies and if all these points that we are proposing at the moment fit into the state of our energy and, above all, the industry that is to benefit from this energy?
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. first of all, of course, i would like to thank anne delvaux for her cooperation. i thank the rapporteurs of the political groups for their very constructive cooperation. i can only speak with the highest respect for the work of our secretariats. without this work, we wouldn't be able to present our position on such a complex matter so quickly. the effect of this work from a political point of view is unfortunately not satisfactory to me. and we continue to promise ourselves, the european economy, the european citizens, at the beginning of this report, that this new climate policy will be realistic, it will be flexible, it will be cheaper. that's a very good assumption. doubling the reduction target for the next 10 years after 2020 is not a realistic solution. in particular, it is not realistic, given the fact that europe continues to pursue a unilateral climate policy. this is a direct route to further reducing the competitiveness of european industry. declaring this goal before the paris talks is simply a negotiating error. we should have something in the bag to offer. we shouldn't be playing cards today before anyone has said anything about this. the introduction of binding targets for the share of energy from renewable sources, as well as for energy efficiency, is not a flexible solution. we know that member states and sectors of the economy have very different potential in this respect, for example our energy-intensive industry is already one of the most energy-efficient in the world. the production of paper, steel, chemicals, fertilisers, lime and cement in europe is carried out in the cleanest way possible from a technological point of view. so to expect this industry to save more is very unrealistic, to disregard the technological circumstances, is to invite this industry to go across the atlantic. after all, the solutions proposed are certainly not going to be cheaper. already today, we pay almost twice as much for electricity in europe as we do in the united states. of course, partly because of taxes, partly because of para-taxation, but climate policy has a very important role to play here. the most advanced renewable technologies today can replace, eliminate, a ton of co2 emissions in electricity production at a cost of 200 euros. other technologies, such as photovoltaics or offshore wind, cost between 500 and 900 euros per tonne of co2 emissions. it's not well-spent money. it's just too expensive. and then there's the environmental costs, which we don't like to talk about. the environmental costs of such a policy are very obvious. this energy - renewable energy - is volatile, it's unpredictable, so there's a conventional power plant somewhere in the back that has to be running all the time. very often in european conditions, they're coal-fired power plants. very often, these coal-fired power plants are just working to send electricity through the air. i don't think there's a worse model, from an environmental standpoint, and also from a business standpoint, than to produce energy just in case. our energy and climate package was designed to ensure our sustainable development, to ensure our energy security, and ultimately to ensure the competitiveness of our economy. that balance has been broken today in favor of environmental goals. today we have an opportunity, a chance to restore that balance. if we want to restore this balance, this policy must be based on a single objective: a realistically defined objective, correlated with international agreements. this policy must be flexible for both countries and sectors of the economy; finally, this policy must be a policy of low energy prices. otherwise, the balance between business and environmental objectives will continue to be broken. otherwise, the vitality of the european economy will not be restored, and today it is very much needed. unfortunately, without any substantial changes in this report, this text does not meet these challenges. this text is even much less constructive than the commission's proposals. without any substantial changes to this report, i will encourage you to reject this report.
the question asked by raising the blue card. the 2008 climate package included a condition for changing the targets, namely a binding commitment by other world economies to introduce a similar reduction in targets that would be in line with the european union's course of action. which of the economies has made such a reduction, if we are to follow the principle of respecting agreements and fragile compromises, is it the us, the chinese or the russians? which of these economies also made a binding commitment to lower the targets, that we are changing the targets again, since that was supposed to be a condition?
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the package adopted in 2008 explicitly states that the targets will not be changed unless there is a binding commitment from the world's other largest economies, such as the united states, china, russia, india and brazil, to reduce co2 emissions. we know one thing for sure: there were no binding - i emphasize the word - commitments other than some declarations that have no meaning, but that does not matter. although this was agreed in a fragile compromise in 2008, the european union is proposing further restrictions, further reductions in co2 emissions, which will inevitably lead to a further reduction in the competitiveness of the european economy and will have a negative impact on the industrialization process of our continent. one thing is certain: these measures will be effective in that they will significantly raise energy prices in europe relative to energy in other competitive parts of the world where economies are developing. this in turn will inevitably and effectively lead to the exit of energy-intensive industries such as steel from the european union. it's already happening right now. what's next? this will of course be followed by an increase in unemployment, an increase in social costs for individual member states and, as a result, of course, also a significant reduction in the budgetary contributions from these energy-intensive sectors that such contributions would bring. enough of this road, this road leads nowhere.
mr. chairman, please! the european union now needs a more robust analysis of the energy market situation after the adoption of the 3x20 targets to combat climate change. instead, new reduction targets are being pushed, with no guarantee that a global agreement will be reached by all parties at the un conference in paris in 2015. the unilateral reduction targets adopted by europe are already causing the chemical industry to flee to the united states, for example, where shale gas makes energy cheap and co2 emissions fall. in many european countries, climate change policies are having the opposite effect, increasing co2 emissions and the use of cheap coal in old coal-fired power plants, while new gas-fired power plants are being left behind because of gas prices. there are also growing protests against the damage to the landscape caused by wind farms. the european commission is currently reviewing the energy policies of the member states and assessing which renewable energy projects are realistic, effective and do not lead to drastic increases in energy prices. the french court of auditors has been highly critical of france's climate change policy. he found that vast sums of money were being squandered on completely wrong enterprises, often with financial speculation as their main objective.
mr. chairman, please! environmental and climate protection must never be removed from our key priorities, but the real challenges facing europe are climate change, the growing demand for energy and the price of energy. we're still not doing enough to protect the environment, but we're also not doing enough to help the economy and create jobs. we should not fight climate change by imposing draconian carbon limits on countries. this path only leads to economic hardship, especially in countries like poland, and it also builds a negative message, a negative perception of the eu's climate policy among all citizens in europe. in my country, poland, the government has been promising for many years that it will be preparing a law on renewable energy sources. i expect this bill to be passed and enacted quickly.
mr. chairman, please! the setting of overly ambitious thematic objectives has led to a decline in economic competitiveness and a slowdown in economic development in the european union. in europe, energy prices have increased by 35% since 2005, while in the united states they have fallen by 4%. the eu is the only region in the world to have reduced its emissions by 18%, and on a global scale, emissions have increased by as much as half. in its 2030 targets, the european union should not unilaterally support climate policy and further increase reduction targets. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests and ecosystems. the current primacy of climate policy over industrial policy threatens the achievement of the latter's objectives and causes the reductions in emissions from the territories of the union countries to be achieved at the expense of the competitive position of european industry and the high price of energy. therefore , in our position , we should withdraw from the proposed three independent ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! in adopting such an important document as the 2030 strategy for climate and energy policy, we are aware that we need to set some priorities. for me, it can be a priority when all countries accept it equally, and not just one country is randomly proposed and the others have to adapt. first of all, each country has different conditions and possibilities to achieve, for example, emission reductions: some countries can do it through renewable energy, others can do it through greater efficiency, but for example, poland can do it through shale gas. why should other countries dictate to us how we should achieve this goal? let each country choose its own path, let us be competitive and let us reach that goal only by following its own paths, which are acceptable to that country.
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. it's certainly true that investors expect predictability. that doesn't mean they expect a policy that is predictably 100% harmful. it's not just any predictability that's at issue here. it's not just taxes that are responsible for the fact that we pay so much for energy in the european union. taxes have always been there, and energy prices have increased by 38% between 2005 and 2012. if someone doesn't want to acknowledge that climate policy played a role, it means they want to ideologise the debate. similarly, only ideology can explain the fact that half of this parliament does not want to accept that renewable energy is not free. these are energy sources that generate enormous costs. on the one hand, these are sources that are unstable, and therefore we have to double energy production, even by the most conventional methods. on the other hand, these sources are distributed, so we have to develop the transmission network beyond the market demand. all of these are system costs that are often many times higher than any other energy source. the third issue is a global issue. i have to say, i'm a little amused by the greens' fascination with the energy policy of the people's republic of china. what the chinese consider to be climate policy is fiscal policy, calculated to benefit the budget of the people's republic of china. it's industrial policy, after all, designed to shift the energy system from coal to gas. it's going to be largely unconventional gas. i don't know if the greens are going to be very, very happy about that. this debate certainly shows that we also need pragmatic solutions. the example of german cars was cited here. indeed, german cars are recognized worldwide. for this reason, in order to maintain their reputation and the right price-quality ratio, we decided a few weeks ago, very rightly, not to impose additional co2 reduction requirements on the production of these largest sedans. it was the right decision. if we could save bmw, then maybe we can save some of the energy and energy-intensive industries in the european union. this debate shows the enormous divisions within the european union, divisions that we have never seen before. that's why we shouldn't rush. we have to find a good way to balance competitiveness, security and the sustainability of our economy, and that takes time.
in writing. we argue on the a priori assumption that anthropogenic co2 emissions are the main culprit of climate change. no one has ever proved this hypothesis, and its endorsement as "faith" is dogmatic. i regard the ipcc experience as a 'throwing of the dice'". i'm not arguing with the commission, which believes the ipcc. faith is hard to argue with. however, assuming that it contains some rational premise, i would point out that: first, the eu's ambition concerns about 10% of global co2 emissions and reducing it will not affect the climate. even assuming that the ipcc is correct, the insistence on plans for 2030 and beyond is reckless, cynical or foolish for those who insist on doing so at the expense of the european economy and its competitiveness; secondly, the alternative to the current energy model imposed on member states in the form of a single-unit paradigm for distributed renewable energy is unrealistic and irrational. the authors of this proposal make a methodological error, because renewable energy in europe is unevenly distributed; thirdly, the european emissions trading system as a purported market tool does not meet the intended objectives. it ignores the role of agriculture and forestry in actively reducing the emissions of a gas that is essential to life on our planet. on the contrary, it leads to global deforestation and reduced food production.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the reporting on compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy is a fundamental element of the implementation of the newly adopted policy. the current stage is a necessary requirement for the alignment of the regulation with the requirements of the lisbon treaty. the main objective of the future work on this report must be to introduce appropriate regulations to guarantee that the common fisheries policy is respected at the same level in all the countries of the european union. without unified solutions, no reform can take place. the result is, first of all, the lack of reliable scientific data. i must refer to the current situation in the baltic sea, which is particularly vulnerable to the failures of the common fisheries policy because of its sensitivity. the problem is the collapse of the cod stock in terms of quality. although the cod is abundant, its disastrously low body weight makes it unmarketable. this is because of uncontrolled industrial fishing, which provides the raw material for the production of fishmeal. these catches resulted in the depopulation of herring and sprat, which are the main food for cod. i'm not going to let you down. i would like to reiterate my call for appropriate action to be taken to curb harmful industrial fishing in the baltic sea.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, commissioner, i have to go. the issue of the production and export of arms, or other products of the military industry, the arms industry has always been, is and will be controversial. there will always be suspicions that the exported weapons will be used by someone who does not respect international law, there will always be accusations that the exported products of the arms industry are used by someone to take power by force or to maintain power. these controversies, as old as the world, have been, are and probably will be for a long time. we must also remember that the european union, the countries of the european union taken together, is a major producer of arms, accounting for 26% of world exports. the vast majority of these exports - 61% of them - are directed outside the european union. given all these political and humanitarian aspects, the fight against international crime, the fight against terrorism, the proliferation of weapons in countries where we would not want these weapons of the highest order or of mass destruction to reach, we must, as the european parliament and as the member states of the european union, all of them, without exception, as i say, welcome these united nations regulations. the european union and our parliament have always supported solutions that ensure that international standards are upheld in the field of human rights, in the field of risk reduction, in the field of conflict prevention, and we see many such conflicts in the world today in many regions. we are aware of this and have rightly stressed it in our resolutions. i am thinking here of the report by the committee on foreign trade, the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, and the report by mr danjean, chairman of the subcommittee on security and defence. as an international organisation, we must ensure that the arms exported from the european union are not used to create instability in different regions of the world, to spread international terrorism, to spread armed conflicts, and finally to serve something that is extremely harmful and very common, namely corruption. it is therefore very good that we are calling on the member states to ratify this agreement.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the fact that the treaty on the trade in conventional arms complements the regulations which previously sought to regulate the trade in weapons of mass destruction and the trade in landmines. my concern, however, is a concern that comes from the fact that three countries (iran, syria and north korea) are strongly opposed to international control. in addition, 22 countries abstained, including key states such as india, china and russia, while the united states, which had supported the treaty, has not rushed to ratify it. all of this shows that progress has been made, and it is certainly a step in the right direction, but the international community still has a very long way to go in terms of effectively controlling the trade in conventional arms.
in writing. the report on explosives for civil use presented here was prepared by the ep's committee on the internal market and consumer protection. it is therefore bound to focus on creating a common market and on reducing unfair competition. consumers are also to be given greater rights by the need to be clearly and comprehensively informed about the composition of materials, their intended use and the conditions necessary to ensure safety. i'm touching on security here, which is critical, because very few explosives are designed for civilian use. these are often dual-use products, both civilian and military. the commission has also received comments from interested parties. unfortunately, this is confirmed by the events in norway. i therefore propose that the explosives directive be kept under review in practice to eliminate the potential risks of misuse of explosives intended for civilian use.
in writing. the report under discussion is a de facto enhanced protection of airline passengers' rights. the proposed regulation would give every passenger the right to compensation when their flight is cancelled or delayed. the establishment of specific procedures for the conditions and manner of payment of compensation will facilitate and streamline the movement of passengers. the most common complaint by passengers so far is that their rights are ignored by airlines using the term 'extraordinary circumstances'. therefore, a precise definition of this term would remove any ambiguity in the payment of compensation. a very important aspect for each customer is to specify the definition of the 'ticket price' which contains all the basic information, i.e. the issue of the boarding pass, the minimum baggage allowance and the credit card fee. passengers will have the right to be informed of any other costs before the booking process begins. you will be allowed to bring on board, without any additional charge, your personal belongings as well as goods purchased at the airport. the creation of dedicated baggage claim points and the availability of a standardised complaint form in all the languages of the european union will ensure that passengers are able to resolve their inconvenience quickly and without any problems. another very important issue will be the prohibition of cancellation of a return flight if the passenger does not take the flight tam , i.e. the first leg of the journey. some of the changes are beneficial to passengers, and some are beneficial to carriers. in the end, i think the interests of both parties have been rationally balanced.
madam president, it is a very important day today. i would like to remind all the members of this most democratic house of europe, and those who are visiting in the gallery, that on 5 march 1940 the ‘father and brother of nations’, josef stalin, ordered the cruel killing of more than 20 000 polish officers and functionaries. we should remember this.
rapporteur. - madam president, first of all i would like to ask you for time to make a short statement before the final vote, as a co-rapporteur. i could not vote, because you caused a mess in this house. i would like to ask all of you to vote against this report, because although we rejected the most radical proposition by the greens, this report does not constitute a proper answer to the economic challenges we are facing in europe today. secondly, i would like to withdraw my name from this report.
madam president, yesterday afternoon our secretariat informed the presidency that i wanted to make a statement before the final vote on this report. this was of crucial importance, because otherwise we could not provide guidelines for like-minded members to vote in favour or against in the final vote. that is why i ask you to repeat this vote tomorrow. (applause)
in writing. - on tuesday 4 february 2014, the european parliament voted on a report on illegal female migrants in the european union. the report raises the alarm about the plight of women who are in the eu but do not have documents. it emphasises that the group of illegal immigrant women is a social group particularly vulnerable to trafficking, discrimination and exploitation in the labour market. migrant women from third countries (without documents) are also exposed to double and sometimes triple discrimination: on the basis of gender, legal status and sometimes skin colour. it therefore encourages member states to provide psychological support, health care and legal assistance to illegal migrants and to take appropriate steps to prevent the spread of prostitution and forced labour among this social group. i voted for the report, which is about defending the most vulnerable, the most disenfranchised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on undocumented women migrants in the european union (2013/2115(ini)). this report is more than just a matter of population, immigration laws and employment. what this document offers is the protection of fundamental human rights. as eu citizens we have the luxury of health care, education and protection from prosecution, and this report enforces those standards for migrant women. as was stated in the report, ‘the recommendations proposed in the report focus on three main points. the first point encourages the member states to uncouple immigration policies from health care, education and the prosecution of crimes against undocumented migrants. access to basic health care, education and protection of physical integrity are fundamental rights, and undocumented migrants are entitled to them, despite their residential or legal status. so, migrants should be able to access these basic services and also report abusers to the police without fearing arrest and deportation’. furthermore, one must bear in mind that the people who come to the eu view it as an opportunity to provide better for their families and are mostly law-abiding citizens who are often pushed to the outer fringes of society due to their situation or ethnicity.
in writing. - it is estimated that there are between 2 and 4 million illegal migrants in the european union. through poverty and poor working conditions, they put their own health and that of others at risk, for example by spreading untreated infections. illegal migrants face a number of legal, economic and practical challenges along the way. access to healthcare is a basic human right, but eu member states are not obliged to provide it to migrants on the same terms as citizens. the minimum should be ensured especially for children and pregnant and postpartum women. another problem faced by illegal immigrants is the skyrocketing cost of medical care. this is particularly true for groups at particular risk, such as pregnant women, who have access to medical care in each of the countries studied, but only in belgium, france, italy and greece is it completely free. only in two countries - spain and greece - do children of illegal migrants have access to medical care on the same terms as children of their own nationals.
in writing. - the lack of interest among eu citizens in taking up seasonal work in the tourist, agricultural or horticultural sectors is increasingly prompting european employers to hire non-eu nationals. the adoption of a package of legislative procedures with today's directive will help to prevent the exploitation of third-country workers. it will also ensure equal working conditions, legal protection and the conditions and duration of residence and work permits. another benefit of this directive is the introduction of simplifications in the entry procedure for third-country nationals who seek employment in the union on the basis of a contract of employment or a binding offer of employment which specifies the amount of remuneration. the provisions also specify the maximum period of employment for seasonal workers, which is six months, and require the employer to provide accommodation for seasonal workers. i believe that, in accordance with the treaty, the union must develop a migration policy aimed at ensuring equal respect for and enforcement of rights vis-à-vis third-country nationals, which will help to minimise the wave of illegal immigration.
in writing. - with good wages and a high standard of living, a part of european society does not want to do low-paid, often exhausting seasonal work. these are usually agricultural work at harvest or employment in services. unfortunately, such wages are often poor, and working conditions and hygiene are not up to par. incidents of detention, exploitation and discrimination against workers are also worth mentioning. to stop illegal labour migration, it is necessary to create rules that restrict this practice. it is about regulating the legal system between employers and employees, which makes it easy to hire and work under fair conditions. i also fully agree with the inclusion of seasonal workers from outside the eu in these procedures. i also call for better access to information for employees about their rights and for a system of protection against abuse or exploitation. it is necessary to be able to control the employer and the system of penalties. however, they should also apply to workers who, for example, illegally extend their stay.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr moraes' report because i believe it is necessary and ethically right to improve the conditions of entry and residence of all third-country nationals who come to a member state for seasonal work. the exploitation of seasonal workers must be combated by introducing rules to regulate the flow of migration, to provide guarantees not only to the host countries but also to the workers themselves. all this in order to regulate better a phenomenon which sometimes takes on emergency features and which sees the safety of our citizens protected, along with the essential guarantees of solidarity and welcome.
in writing. - it is the first attempt to provide a comprehensive solution to the problem of seasonal workers from third countries. by ensuring that regulations are in place on accommodation standards, length of stay, labour rights and non-discrimination, it can be expected that the fundamental rights of all third-country seasonal workers will be protected in the future. the new law will allow for controlled labour migration of unskilled seasonal workers and will help to reduce the grey area. the s&d group secured the adoption of the first post-lisbon legal migration instrument.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. the arctic region and its resources are becoming increasingly important geopolitically. however, greenland has many structural weaknesses which can be addressed through cooperation with the european union. the 2014-2020 agreement will have a positive impact on the political dialogue between the parties, but also through financial support should ensure the development of infrastructure for greenland. i hope that cooperation on energy, natural resources, but also climate change and environmental protection will be mutually beneficial. i also support the european union's efforts to obtain a permanent observer position in the arctic council.
in writing. - the situation on the insurance market for natural and man-made disasters varies widely across the eu, due in particular to the many meteorological and geographical conditions in the various member states. however, natural and man-made disasters pose financial risks wherever they occur, and the priority is to prevent and optimise the risks and exposure of eu citizens. while natural disasters are influenced by weather and geography, man-made disasters can also be the result of misbehavior, poor risk management or neglect, and a lack of preparation and information. many people choose to buy insurance, but natural and man-made disasters require different types of insurance and are covered by two different insurance markets. it is important that all insurance products available on the market provide adequate protection for eu citizens and that consumers are clearly informed about the product chosen, its price and how the insurance works in the event of a risk. i welcome the call for closer cooperation between member states and the private sector to provide citizens with relevant information on the risks they face and to exchange best practices on protecting citizens from unexpected accidents.
in writing. sometimes the responsibility for a disaster falls on a man. it can be caused by simple oversight, failure to follow procedures, or ignoring the first symptoms of tragedy. failure to take appropriate action at the right time is a sign of poor risk management. this results in inadequate preparedness of services to respond immediately in the event of a natural disaster. the resulting damage is greater than if the proper precautions had been taken and the population had been informed in advance of the impending cataclysm. it is therefore essential to develop effective communication methods to enable the rapid transmission of data on a possible disaster between the relevant services and the inhabitants of the affected area, and to place greater emphasis on scientific research to enable the rapid and accurate collection of such data. as regards insurance per se, the diversity of eu regions is such that services of this type must be geared to the area and must take account of a number of factors in contracts, such as climatic conditions, risk management methods or the effectiveness of preventive action by local services and authorities. the insurance system must therefore be flexible and 'tailored' to the needs of the region.
in writing. - the position adopted today is of great importance for competition policy. the agreement with switzerland will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law. it is an innovative agreement, as switzerland is the eu's third largest trading partner and the second largest source of eu foreign direct investment. the two economies are closely interlinked and many anticompetitive practices affect crossborder trade. the rules and practices between the eu and switzerland are quite similar, so the implementation of this agreement should be quite easy. the main issue is the enforcement of competition law. in a world of globalised economies and global value chains, anti-competitive behaviour such as abuse of a dominant market position or cartels is a serious non-tariff barrier to trade. in this context, it is essential from the perspective of regulating foreign trade and investment to redouble efforts to promote international cooperation to combat anti-competitive practices.
in writing. - the competitiveness of the european economy is the basis for its development. cooperation agreements on competition law enforcement, such as the agreement with switzerland, are increasingly becoming the appropriate form of cooperation in an increasingly globalised world. the strategic geographical location of switzerland for the eu, the presence of a large number of eu companies in switzerland and swiss companies in the union, and the number of parallel proceedings conducted by the courts in both countries in the recent past suggest that such an agreement has become necessary. it will be important to continue to fight cartels with determination, as they harm consumer welfare, innovation and the competitiveness of both economies. the effective cooperation of the national competition authorities with the european commission will be necessary for the smooth implementation of the agreement and it will be necessary to ensure that the procedural guarantees granted to the parties in their legal systems are respected. i supported this report because i believe that these types of agreements are very innovative and will improve the competitiveness of european companies and the european economy. in addition, in certain situations, the agreement could be considered as a model for future bilateral cooperation agreements in the field of competition enforcement. however, the eu should adopt a general framework establishing a minimum common and coherent basis for any future negotiations on competition enforcement cooperation, to which the report also refers.
in writing. the arms trade treaty is designed to regulate the international trade in conventional weapons. a broad coalition in the european parliament, led by david martin, is about to give the green light to member states to sign an arms trade treaty, which aims to regulate the global market and fight illegal trade. the treaty was adopted by the un general assembly on 2 april 2013. it raises standards and standardizes procedures for arms exports and transfers, and brokering and transit. the treaty should now be implemented with ambition and progress monitored. in addition, the eu should make every effort to help develop codes of conduct for arms trading companies to promote responsible corporate behaviour.
in writing. - the resolution we recently voted on is a multilateral agreement to regulate the trade in conventional weapons. i think we need to ratify this treaty. in recent years, the dangers of uncontrolled arms trade and its destabilizing effect on armed conflicts around the world have become especially evident. it should be borne in mind, however, that the sovereignty of states is limited by the ratification of this treaty. nevertheless, i believe that the control of the trade in conventional weapons will have a positive impact on the international environment.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the report on protection against dumped and subsidised imports from non-eu countries. the above reform package aims to modernise the existing rules in such a way as to ensure the most effective protection of union producers against dumped and subsidised imports of goods from outside the eu. the main changes relate to the tightening of the rules on the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping proceedings, the protection of the union industry by the initiation of an ex-officio investigation or the reimbursement of duties collected from importers during the expiry review. in addition, the new provisions will ensure greater predictability for traders by modifying the so-called 'shipping clause' relating to the provision of adequate advance notice to importers of the imposition of provisional duties. i believe that in the light of the changing economic situation in the world, the amendment of the proposed rules will have a fundamental impact on better protecting the interests of european producers and importers and will also help to minimise unfair trading practices.
in writing. - i believe that the union's trade defence instruments should properly reflect the interests of european producers, importers and consumers. european tdi rules are already quite liberal and take account of importers' interests at many stages. the balance between their interests and those of the european producers, whom these proceedings are designed to protect, is therefore absolutely necessary to ensure the competitiveness of our industry. we must remember that the eu is dependent on raw materials from outside the eu. any undercutting of the raw material prices on foreign markets makes those producers very competitive with the union producers. it's not their market advantage, it's a completely artificial advantage that's only been gained through government intervention. the so-called lesser duty rule is also a big problem. applying this principle puts european companies at a disadvantage compared to their competitors abroad, because in eu safeguard proceedings foreign exporters who take the market away from our producers by unfair trading practices such as dumping or subsidies can obtain a duty lower than the dumping margin, thanks to the lesser duty principle. i have supported the solutions that have been developed to address these problems and i hope that further negotiations on this issue will allow the development of effective instruments for trade protection and thus increase the competitiveness of our european businesses.
in writing. - europe, for many reasons, will never be self-sufficient, so good economic links around the world must be sought and nurtured. but we should take action to protect our businesses and consumers from unfair traders who do not respect competition rules. i therefore support the modification of the anti-dumping duty rules and the introduction of new rules to improve transparency and predictability. in doing so, care should be taken to avoid any disruption to the market, while remaining prudent. attention should be paid to unfair practices by third countries, especially in the trade of raw materials which they sell to europe at exorbitant prices. as a result, our companies, by using these materials, lose out to companies that use products purchased at original prices. the reverse mechanisms, namely the sale of subsidised products to the eu at undercutting prices, which are then uncompetitive for the eu producers, without any co-financing, should also be opposed. we must firmly oppose such practices and allow the eu institutions to do whatever they can.
in writing. - i welcome the proposed amendments to protect the european market from too cheap imports. the improvement of the functioning of the market surveillance instruments will allow the economies of the member states to be better protected against acts detrimental to the group of union producers concerned. the increase in customs duties will result in the discouragement of imports of dumped or subsidised goods from third countries into the union market, which will largely contribute to the stabilisation of polish industry and the securing of jobs for polish workers. the limitation resulting from the increase in the duty on the inflow of intermediate goods which are used to manufacture union export products will contribute to a large extent to the economic growth in the eu resulting from the stimulation of local economies. the commission has not established that the union industry is able to benefit from the measures in force. given the benefits of better import control and the opportunities it creates, i will vote in favour of adopting the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community and council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community.
in writing. - the rules on compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy must be brought into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, which entered into force on 1 december 2009. the correct application of the co-decision procedures, delegated acts and implementing acts requires changes to the sectoral regulations. this report concerns council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. the author proposes to amend the commission proposal so that the powers conferred on the commission are reviewed after three years, when the commission presents a report on the work on the common fisheries policy (acts adopted or controls carried out during this period). it also notes certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009, such as the conditions for exempting small vessels from the obligation to hold a fishing authorisation and the conditions for awarding and transferring points for infringements. those rules should be amended so that their enforcement does not impose an additional administrative burden on fishermen.
in writing. - the largest amount of money, some 4.3 billion out of almost 6.4 billion euros, will go to sustainable fisheries between 2014 and 2020, i.e. those that take care of the recovery of fish stocks and aquaculture. the negotiators of the european parliament, the governments and the european commission have reached a preliminary agreement on the rules for spending the funds earmarked for the financing of the eu's fisheries policy in the new financial perspective. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) will also be available to fishermen to replace engines in their boats. half-time breaks are also subsidized. the emff is to be one of the key elements of the reform of the common fisheries policy. it will help finance projects that create jobs and improve the quality of life of communities living on europe's coasts.
madam president! the adaptation of the directives to the new legal framework has created a coherent mechanism which i hope will help us to avoid all kinds of misunderstandings and unjustified differences. the improvement is expected to lead to a reduction in administrative barriers and lower costs in this segment of the economy, which will directly contribute to job growth. the inconsistent implementation of the existing rules has led to interpretation difficulties in different countries, which has created unequal market conditions. it also limited the necessary supervision of activities related to the trade in dangerous materials such as pyrotechnic articles. these and similar inaccuracies are a major obstacle to the development of the european single market. i therefore believe that the solutions proposed in these reports should be supported. at the same time, they will contribute to enhancing consumer protection by improving the safety of the products offered.
in writing. - if the explosive atmosphere contains different types of gases, vapours, mists or dust, protective measures should be applied to the greatest potential hazard. when determining the measures to prevent ignition in an explosive atmosphere, the employer should also take into account the electrostatic charges transmitted by the workers. in order to reduce such ignition, the employer shall ensure that persons working are provided with appropriate clothing which will not contribute to the generation of electrostatic discharges. the explosion protection documentation shall also specify which installations, devices, protective systems and connecting elements, in particular cables, wires, pipes, can be safely used in an explosive atmosphere. this also applies to devices and components which are not considered to be protective devices or systems if their incorporation into the installation is liable to cause a risk of ignition. the employer shall be responsible for taking measures to prevent the wrong connection of the coupling elements. the employer must also take the necessary measures to ensure that workplaces, equipment and connecting elements accessible to workers are designed, constructed, assembled and installed, and maintained and operate in such a way as to minimise the risk of explosion.
in writing. - the objective of harmonising the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market and the control of explosives for civil use is first and foremost to ensure the highest level of protection and safety for eu citizens. all explosives intended for civil use should meet the essential safety requirements before being made available on the market. i supported the new legal framework as it introduces simplified product regulations and allows for more consistent application of technical standards, which will help improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and equal assessment of notified bodies within the eu market. this will increase confidence of both producers and consumers by clarifying the obligations of economic operators and equip member states' authorities with more effective tools for carrying out controls and market surveillance, leading to a reduction in the number of non-compliant and dangerous products.
in writing. - trading explosives requires special security. the obligation to label a new (unmarked) material is imposed on an undertaking carrying out the business of trading in explosives for civil use when it places the material on the market. what does that mean? it is necessary to provide the name of the manufacturer, the alphanumeric code and the electronically readable marking. this is just one of several provisions of the law on the conduct of this type of business that is now coming into force. the two regulations relating to the labelling of materials enter into force at the same time. they shall establish a register of unique indications, the rules for which shall depend on the activity which the operator wishes to pursue. this includes manufacturing and trading or activities carried out by scientific units. the data collected in the register shall be kept for 10 years from the date of manufacture of the material intended for civil use or until the time of its use or destruction. the trader shall be obliged to provide the data entered in the register at the request of the competent authorities and services. the new rules also define the production site. this is the organized part of the enterprise where explosives for civilian use are manufactured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the harmonisation of the provisions of the member states relating to the making available on the market of non-automatic weighing instruments. the report aims to amend the existing directive 2009/23/ec, which is part of the package of nine eu goods directives adopted by the commission in 2008 as part of the implementation of the new legal framework (nlf). strengthening the procedures for making non-automatic weighing instruments available on the market will have a significant impact on the safety of those products sold in the union, will contribute to their better functioning in the single market and will thus benefit both manufacturers, importers and distributors. in addition, the tightening of legislation will protect the eu market from the influx of goods that do not comply with european standards. i believe that another important benefit of the harmonisation of the rules on non-automatic weighing instruments is the reduction of the administrative burden and thus the reduction of the costs incurred. i am of the opinion that, in order to ensure adequate safety in the sale and distribution of the products in question, it is also necessary to strengthen market surveillance by the member states. this will help to avoid the placing on the market of dangerous products that do not comply with eu standards and will increase the level of consumer protection.
in writing. - non-automatic weighing instruments are measuring instruments used to determine the weight of a body by applying gravity to the body, requiring the intervention of an operator during weighing (e.g. when a load is placed on a scale). the scale may also be used to determine other parameters or properties related to mass, size, quantity or properties.
in writing. - the need to meet emc requirements does not mean that the product must be tested by a certified laboratory, as the manufacturer (or importer) assumes responsibility for compliance with the standards by issuing an appropriate declaration of conformity. products for which a declaration of conformity has been drawn up shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of union law and to be honest. however, the president of the office for electronic communications is empowered to verify the declaration and to verify that the equipment actually complies with the requirements of the directive. where such non-compliance is found, the manufacturer may be fined, ordered to withdraw the device from the market or prohibited from reselling it. the assessment of the conformity of the equipment with the emc directive is possible in principle only after the relevant tests have been carried out.
in writing. - the essential characteristics, knowledge of and application of which will ensure that electrical equipment is used safely and for its intended purpose, should be visible on the electrical equipment and, if not, should be indicated in the accompanying documentation. for the purposes of directive 2006/95/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits (oj l 374, 27.12.2006, p. 10, the so-called low voltage directive), 'electrical equipment' means any equipment intended for use at voltages between 50 v and 1 000 v ac and between 75 v and 1 500 v dc, with the exception of equipment and phenomena listed in annex ii.
in writing. - electric elevators, commonly known as elevators, are commonly used devices. every day, millions of people and goods are moved around the world by crane in the traffic lanes of residential, office, commercial, and industrial buildings. lifts are also widely used in industry, in factories and in mine shafts. a crane is a lifting device that is part of a crane, i.e. a means of transport with a limited range and intermittent, vertical or horizontal movement. lifts are used to move cargo or people in cabins or on platforms. they are usually located in closed or partially open windows of brick, concrete or glass construction. the vertical inclination of the aperture shall not exceed 15°.
in writing. - directive 2009/105/ec of 16 september 2009 relating to simple pressure vessels, referred to as the spvd directive for short, concerns simple pressure vessels produced in series. a simple pressure vessel is any welded vessel subject to an internal overpressure of more than 0,5 bar, designed for the storage of air or nitrogen and not intended for heating by flame.
in writing. - magnetoelectric measuring instruments, measuring instruments of constant electric current (or other physical quantities converted into electric current) in which the measurement is made by the interaction of the magnetic field of a permanent magnet (magnes) with the field produced by the measured current flowing in a moving coil connected to a guide. the interaction of the fields creates a torque compensated by the torque of the reciprocating forces generated by the elastic fixing of the coil, the position of the balance of the torques of the forces being proportional to the current flowing in the coil. magnetoelectric measuring instruments are used as amperometers, voltmeters and ohmometers.
in writing. - most air passengers have experienced, at least once, cases of flight overbooking, long delays, flight cancellations, or mishandled luggage. out of those entitled to compensation, only 2% of passengers have actually obtained it. as the eu aviation sector continues to grow, so does the need to better protect the rights of air passengers. with that aim, the bach report calls for the revision of the current eu regulation on passenger's rights. the report asks that information about rights be more available to air passengers and consumers, as well as assistance mechanisms to handle passengers' complaints. furthermore, the text touches upon the issue of compensation by setting regulations which will make it harder for airlines to avoid paying. equally important, the report asks airlines to end their "no show" policy, this way passengers' will be able to board return flight even-though they have been absent for the outward journey. while managing to strike a reasonable balance between the airlines and the passenger rights, the report gives consumers better understanding of their rights and effective tools to safeguard them. this is an important step for increasing the standards of services offered to air passengers, therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - with the number of air passengers in the european union increasing year by year, there is a need for comprehensive and coherent rules on compensation and assistance in the event of denied boarding or cancellation or long delay of flights. unfortunately, european consumer passengers still complain about the unsatisfactory level of protection in the event of delays, cancellations or other disruptive changes to flights. provisions are necessary to ensure that passengers are informed in a clear and comprehensible manner and as soon as possible of any disruption to their journey, its causes and their rights in the event of such disruption. it is also necessary to ensure that passengers' rights to compensation are enforced more effectively and more quickly, while ensuring a fair balance between the interests of passengers and air carriers.
in writing. - european society is becoming more mobile. working in another country, studying or going abroad for weekends makes us use air transport more often. this is also due to the increasingly better prices offered by carriers. unfortunately, the rights of passengers are often violated. airlines exploit loopholes in the law in cases of delays, lost baggage, flight cancellations or so-called overbooking. even before the journey begins, passengers' rights are not respected by presenting unclear ticket prices, which do not include surcharges and do not take into account taxes. after all, airline passengers are consumers just as you are when you buy food or other goods or services. the report therefore implements provisions designed to facilitate travel through a clear and transparent legislative framework, with regard to the rights and obligations of customers and carriers. clear rules will avoid misunderstandings for both parties. an important aspect of the report is the argument that a guarantee fund should be created to provide security for passengers in the event of the insolvency of the carrier.
in writing. - passenger rights are crucial for our citizens. being delayed or even trapped at an airport due to the bankruptcy of an airline is only the worst scenario what can happen. i believe that in the report i supported with my vote in favour, the european parliament will deliver solutions to our citizens, especially when it comes to reasonable compensation in case of delays, bankruptcy insurance for airlines and a coherent onboard luggage rule. i congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work.
in writing. - according to the montreal convention, a passenger may claim compensation up to 1131 sdrs (pln 5670,16 at the average nbp exchange rate of 13.11.2012). the current sdr exchange rate is available on the official website of the national bank of poland: www.nbp.pl. it should be noted that the amount of 1131 sdrs is not a lump sum for the injured passenger but only the upper limit of the carrier's liability in the event of delay, loss or damage to luggage. obtaining compensation depends on several important factors and it is the consumer who is obliged to prove the damage suffered.
in writing. - the basic condition for declaring bankruptcy is the insolvency of the debtor, i.e. generally the state in which he fails to meet his due obligations or when they exceed the value of his assets. in order to be able to declare bankruptcy, the delay in the execution of these obligations should be longer than 3 months, unless the non-execution of the obligations is of a permanent nature and a continuation of such a state could cause prejudice to the creditors. the bankruptcy notice may be requested by any of them. in the case of a public, partnership, limited partnership or limited-liability company, any of the partners, partners or shareholders (including liquidators if it is in liquidation) may also do so, and in the case of legal persons and other organisational units, anyone who has the right to represent them (in the case of a bank, only the banking supervision commission has the right to make such a request). this right becomes an obligation if the entrepreneur himself ceases to pay his debts. he is then obliged to apply to the court for a declaration of bankruptcy no later than two weeks after the event. if he fails to do so, he may be liable for damage caused by his inaction.
in writing. - unfortunately, in today's united europe, corporate bankruptcies have become a common occurrence, to which this chamber full of unclear regulations adds its brick. it is sufficient to mention that during this session more than 4300 small and medium-sized enterprises in europe went bankrupt. the basic condition for declaring bankruptcy is the insolvency of the debtor, i.e. generally the state in which the debtor fails to meet its due obligations or when they exceed the value of its assets. in order to be able to declare bankruptcy, the delay in the execution of these obligations should be longer than 3 months, unless the non-execution of the obligations is of a permanent nature and a continuation of such a state could cause prejudice to the creditors. in respect of a public, partnership, limited partnership or limited partnership, any of the partners, partners or shareholders may also do so. this right becomes an obligation if the entrepreneur himself ceases to pay his debts. he is then obliged to file a bankruptcy petition with the court within two weeks at the latest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr lehne on the reform of the insolvency law in the european union because i believe that the times of crisis have shown us where we need to improve the legislation in this area. the free market enables companies to grow, establish branches and subsidiaries throughout the union. however, at the time of the bankruptcy declaration, when the creditors are waiting for their money, it turns out that the cross-border procedure is very complicated and takes an infinite amount of time, leaving the victims without compensation for many months. the changes proposed in the report are designed to speed up cross-border proceedings and to coordinate insolvency proceedings within a group of companies. i hope that the council, following the european parliament's lead, will also work vigorously on this regulation, because the union is in dire need of effective rules on crossborder insolvency proceedings.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. congresswoman, you were right to say that we should enter this gap that russia has left. we should send our mission there. but don't you think we made a mistake at the beginning, because euromaidan erupted when yanukovych did not accept the association agreement? is it not our fault too? it means that our offer, the european union's offer, was weak compared to putin's offer, because putin had a real threat and real money.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, since the ukrainian crisis, i think that anyone wondering whether the eu was capable of conducting a viable foreign policy must already know the answer – no, it is not. first, the eu was humiliated by russia when the association agreement with ukraine went down the drain. russia was a much tougher player, had far more efficient instruments and never hesitated to fight for its own imperial interests. the eu had neither good players nor efficient instruments, nor the will to win. when the ukrainian crisis broke out, the eu continued its slumber. what is happening in ukraine now will perhaps determine not only the way ukrainian society will be governed for the next decade or two but also the geo-strategic situation in this part of europe for many years to come. so what move does the eu intend to make? since we now know how relentlessly russia is fighting to keep ukraine within her sphere of influence, since we know how many ukrainians resist this policy, and since we know that the strategy the eu has pursued so far is not working, i would like to learn, commissioner, what new strategic ideas you and your colleagues have in store. considering that plan a fizzled out, what is your plan b? that is, if you have a plan b, because from what you say, it does not seem as though you have one.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. while we are in solidarity with the ukrainian people - and rightly so - on their journey towards freedom, democratic change, on their journey towards europe, at the same time, there is a lack of a real proposal, an offer, a strategy that would be a road map for ukraine, showing its way out of this situation in which this country and this nation find themselves. there are no concrete economic proposals because we know that everything is falling apart here because of the economy and also this great political strategy, which unfortunately mainly amounted to a propaganda game, creating great hopes in the ukrainian people for improving their material situation, for rapid integration with the european union, was not based on hard attitudes and facts, because there were no such really concrete proposals from the european union, there are none and there is no doubt that there will be. so if we put forward any proposals, we have to walk the earth and we should have a policy that is a responsible policy, not just a policy of wishful thinking, which can only escalate the emotions on the kiev maidan and lead to even more violence. of course, we condemn - and rightly so - the violence, especially by president yanukovych, although we must also see the responsibility of certain extremist forces in ukraine, who are also eager to resort to violence. we see extreme nationalist forces, including the swoboda party, which refer to the nationalist groups during the second world war that murdered poles, jews, armenians, slovaks, and that is not a good thing, and that is something to remember. so let's support this democratic part of the larger, i believe, political forces in ukraine and let's hope that we can present a serious strategic offer, a proposal, a roadmap.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in ukraine threatens dramatic outcomes such as martial law or civil war. a peaceful solution is still possible, but dialogue and agreement are necessary. what is needed is a change in the hitherto unresolved position of the president and the impotence of the parliament. what we need is real dialogue, not fake dialogue, and real, not fake amnesty. for this, the mediation of the european union is needed, because there is a total lack of trust between the two sides the kind of mediation that the european union and its representatives and the prime minister of poland are doing today. real concessions to the power camp are needed, such as: an end to violence and persecution, a change in the constitution and the prospect of fair elections, the restoration of a proper parliamentary system. in a conflict situation, reason and responsibility must prevail. if we can't negotiate a deal, let the people and democracy speak through an early election. if a peaceful solution succeeds, the union should offer financial assistance and open up more to the ukrainian society, the youth. the european parliament has a very important role to play in all this. we call in our resolution for a special permanent ad hoc mission of the european parliament in kiev.
mr. chairman, please! a lot of attention is being paid to the internal situation in ukraine and well. a lot of words are directed at the authorities in ukraine and well. but i miss what we're supposed to do. i do not hear a clear voice here and i cannot find such a clear statement in our declaration which we will be voting on tomorrow, that ukraine is part of europe. it's under our flags, the flags of the european union, that they demonstrate in the maidan. why are you afraid to say it out loud? why are you afraid to say that the visas may not be available for another year? say it, then. today, that's what the people of ukraine are waiting for. we have lost the time of this parliament and the european union after 2004 to analyse what is happening inside ukraine, and we have not done what the european union should have done. and so we'll waste time now that people are standing in the streets, because we'll be wondering, dividing our hair in four, what the constitution in ukraine should be. tomorrow is courage time. i'm waiting for those amendments. open the door to the ukrainians. we need it today, because if not, in three or four years ukraine will not change and we will go to a new maidan.
mr. chairman, please! yes, that's right. the ukrainians are a truly european people who deserve a european perspective. today we must do everything we can to support those who are fighting in kiev and other ukrainian cities to achieve this european dream. the polish prime minister is touring eu capitals to consult on the common european position on the situation following president yanukovych's rejection of the association agreement. we're encouraging the ukrainians to compromise. but in encouraging them to do so, we must have an offer of help, both financial for the new government and political for the nation as a whole. we should have the courage to formulate this european perspective for ukraine on the basis of article 49 of the treaty on european union. i'm missing that clause in that resolution. i'm speaking honestly, which is why i've withdrawn my signature, which was originally on the ppe bill.
mr. chairman, please! we have to answer the question, by saying all the right words, because here only the right words are being said, why democracy did not work in ukraine. you're encouraging this state to hold an early election. i'll remind you, last year there was a parliamentary election, which we actually recognized, and next year there's a presidential election. the debate is in the maidan, not the supreme council, and you have to ask yourself why. there are two fatal things in politics. the first thing is naivety. if anyone in this room thinks that sanctions described in one way or another will be a miracle cure for the crisis, they are mistaken. sanctions appear sanctions are punishment and the conversation ends. if we want to put sanctions on the table, we have to remember that once we put sanctions on the table, the conversation ends. and the second very bad thing about politics is hypocrisy. if today, with the majesty of the european parliament, we suddenly wake up and say which ukrainian constitution is better, and we find that the 2004 one was better. she was better, but for years, there was no conversation about it. i would like us to have some distance between us as well and to give above all our partners in ukraine, whether they are freezing at the maidan today or arming the police that we give them a chance to come forward with us for a constructive solution.
mr. chairman, please! ukrainian citizens have shown that they are ready to sacrifice even their lives for european values. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that the democratic nations of the european union, together with the united states, seek dialogue, negotiate and offer our mediation. but of course, it's not enough. today i agree with, for example, pavel kowal, who says that if we do not offer ukraine concrete things, if we do not say that we will open our borders to ukraine, if we do not finally say that ukraine may become a member of the european union once it meets the criteria, then we will not lead to another maidan, but it may lead to another tiananmen square, and we must all prevent this. and finally, on sanctions: sanctions are a bit like the atomic bomb. those who have it today know they can't use it anyway, and we have other legal mechanisms to prevent the placement of suspicious assets of oligarchs or ruling families abroad. they're just mechanisms to prevent money laundering. these are the legal mechanisms we should use.
mr. chairman, please! once again, we are witnessing a conflict in a country directly adjacent to the european union, in which people are being killed. in ukraine, human rights are violated, citizens are persecuted, imprisoned and tortured for their views. the belief is beginning to take hold that those responsible for the drama at euromaidan are free from punishment because they have almost unlimited financial resources. i believe that they should be given legal options now to control their foreign accounts in terms of the legality of the origin of funds and the prevention of money laundering. the events in maidan also show that the european union should be more effective in supporting civil society in neighbouring countries, and the european endowment for democracy, which was set up two years ago, has an important role to play in this regard.
mr. chairman, please! it's true that today everyone has a bag full of good advice for ukrainians. let's remember that for many months, even years, ukrainians didn't have many friends here. when yanukovych refused to support the association agreement, the champagne traffic jams exploded not only in moscow, but also in several european capitals. i remember how those who wanted us to give the ukrainians a clear european perspective of membership - not association, but membership - as those who proposed it, met in this chamber with great resistance, so if we are giving advice to the ukrainians today, let's first of all see what we offered them, how vague and imprecise the offer of the association agreement was. let's just hit our own chest.
in writing. the eu's policy towards ukraine has proved ineffective so far. many polish diplomats and politicians, including myself, have advocated a long-term economic policy of bringing ukraine closer to the west, including through increased trade, visa liberalisation, joint infrastructure projects, and exchanges of young people and academics. however, dialogue within the eu is not easy. the european parliament has adopted several resolutions on the situation in ukraine, but i would consider their real impact on the course of reforms in kiev to be doubtful. in the current situation, i am opposed to a solution to the conflict in ukraine by force. its citizens have elected their authorities democratically and sovereignly, and i would consider attempts at indiscriminate interference by the eu to be hypocritical in the face of the current lack of interest in the eastern partnership's policy of convergence. in the face of the crisis, political declarations are not enough, effective mediation and diplomatic talks are needed, backed up by a concrete economic assistance plan in exchange for continued reforms of ukrainian legislation. the possibility of imposing sanctions or tightening the stance should only be considered in the absence of a change in the attitude of the ukrainian authorities, otherwise it would consistently lead to a breakdown in the talks and affect many innocent people. in my opinion, as a member of the european parliament and a resident of lublin, a united europe should seek to ratify the association agreement with ukraine, which will lead to its accession to the eu.
in writing. a peaceful solution for ukraine is an important goal for all of europe. in poland, experts and politicians are united in proposing what, when and who should take specific action. the first concept had to be adopted or ukraine should be accepted into the eu now. easy for you to say, "wow!" the advocates of ukraine's eu membership are not just talking about how to convince the 28 member states to agree to this very optimistic approach. so far, neither ukraine has expressed a desire to join, nor are too many eu countries ready to make such a proposal. i hope that prime minister donald tusk's recent meetings with the leaders of many european countries have convinced them to seriously consider such a bold strategy. concept two: create a "marshall plan" specifically for ukraine. when i asked the proponents of this idea whether poland should not set an example and declare how it would be financed and how much polish taxpayers would invest in such an ambitious plan, i heard strange answers. and that it's unnecessarily petty, or that politicians who support the government should be the ones to address it. the most curious suggestion was that we should stop giving financial support to those eurozone countries that are in trouble and use that money to help ukraine. so we have to convince the 18 member states that they are not helping themselves, but our neighbour. isn't that genius? save ukraine, not yourselves!
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the context of today's discussion, i would like to express my deep concern and condemn the acts of violence that have taken place in that country in recent months as a result of president yanukovych's decision to postpone the signing of the association agreement with the european union in november 2013. i call on the ukrainian authorities to fully respect civil rights and the fundamental freedoms of assembly and peaceful protest. i strongly condemn the use of force against peaceful demonstrators and call for the release of those who took part in them. i also call for an immediate dialogue between the government and the opposition to find a peaceful solution to the current situation. tomorrow, we will vote on a resolution on the situation in ukraine. in the face of the political destabilisation threatening this country, we must today show real solidarity with those demonstrating support for ukraine's european future. we must support our neighbours in their efforts to reach an honest and wise agreement between the authorities and the opposition. i call on the eu institutions and the member states of the european union to open up to the ukrainian people and to step up their efforts to support ukraine in its efforts to integrate into europe. let us remember that conflict and repression are always a path to disaster, and what we need is solidarity and a common voice of europe calling for a strong and independent ukraine.
madam president! i would like to raise the humanitarian aspect of the situation in the central african republic. among other things, i received a letter from polish monks who work there. for example, one of them writes: "we are notoriously robbed by 'seleka'". we also saw that after they stole our cars, after they crossed the border into chad, they shared their loot. we even know which senior officials in chad these cars went to. we also saw them shooting at people who had taken refuge in our mission. the worst thing is that these people who rob this poor country return to chad and are received like heroes by the president of chad, among others. that is the information i have received and i would like to share it with the european parliament.
madam president! of course, what is happening in syria is still a great drama, it is the drama of this country, the drama of the citizens of this country, the drama of families, the drama of women and children who are killed every day in this country, it is the drama of millions of people who have had to leave syria already at this moment. question: can you see, as the saying goes, "a light in the tunnel"? i think the only way to solve this conflict is to reach an agreement between the syrians themselves, even those who are fighting each other today, and the fighting is between the army loyal to assad and the free syrian army, but the fighting is also between the free syrian army and radical islamist groups or ordinary criminals and criminal gangs. all of which complicates the situation. we also know about the chemical weapons that are in syria. it seems that today only the joint pressure of the international community (of course the european union must be an integral part, but also the united states, russia, syria's neighbors turkey, and perhaps even iran, which should be included in the discussion on security in the region) can bring any results.
mr. chairman, please! there have been a lot of strong words in this room against the syrian regime, led by bashar al-assad. and rightly so, because methods that go as far as cruelty and bestiality must always be condemned in this room. but yet, listening to this debate, one gets the impression that we are dealing with a very one-sided situation, black and white. but it's not. and then there's the other side of the coin, which is the various radical organizations on the rebel side, which are all about extreme islam, militant islam, which are also committing atrocities against the alawite minority, against christians, when they take over christian villages, and not only kidnap the clergy, but also sometimes murder entire villages. we can't just go on about the fact that the west is supporting the rebels, regardless of who they are. if the analysis of some observers is correct that 70% of the rebels are now islamic extremist forces, if these rebel circles are attacking the free syrian army, then the question arises who are we really supporting? we must seek a peaceful solution, not unreasonably support one side that is worth the other.
in writing. in syria, we are facing a humanitarian catastrophe. ten million people need help right now. i therefore stress the need to ensure that humanitarian organisations have access to all victims. given that the conflict in syria has been going on for three years, has a huge scale and dramatic consequences for the civilian population, i call on the un security council to work out a humanitarian solution to the syrian crisis. i hope the geneva conference will produce the results expected. despite all our support and good intentions, i agree with the un secretary general that it is the syrians themselves who bear the primary responsibility for ending the ongoing crisis. they need to agree on a common political vision for their country and focus on rebuilding it. we can only help and support. we also need to respond to the worrying reports of the growing number of people, including european union citizens, joining extremist groups. in this context, cooperation with the countries bordering syria is essential to prevent possible terrorist flows. i also reiterate that the situation in syria should be addressed by the international criminal court. all those responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes must be tried and punished.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's been three years since the fall of the authoritarian rule of husni mubarak. sadly, the initial euphoria was soon drowned out by the increase in violence and the deepening economic recession. the situation is still far from stable, and the continuing demonstrations and bloody riots are plunging egypt further into chaos. this is not without impact on neighbouring countries. the biggest concern for months has been the regular, seemingly unjustified attacks by islamists on the christian coptic minority. dozens of churches were destroyed, many people lost their lives. i expect the current government to take urgent action to stop these bestial acts of terror. egypt remains a key economic partner of the community in the mediterranean and brussels' involvement in the resolution of the conflict in that country is therefore essential. the need to support the egyptian people in their difficult transition is becoming particularly important. i hope that the upcoming presidential elections will be held in a democratic manner. i hope that the recently adopted constitution, although imperfect in many respects, will enable the state to function on the basis of international political standards. i appeal to the provisional authorities in cairo to guarantee the unhindered operation of the international observation missions.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. three years ago, the arab states in the gulf, as well as in north africa, were going through a turbulent period of change. all hoped that the new state solutions would be what the arab societies were waiting for. unfortunately, in egypt, the new reality has become even more complicated. however, the last few months have brought significant positive changes and new hopes for the future. my colleagues and my colleagues have just been talking about the details of these events. i hope that the european union, and in particular the european parliament, will appreciate these changes in this resolution. i also hope that in the coming months we will be actively supporting the change in egypt, which is sometimes difficult but certainly necessary.
madam president! the new constitution, which has strong support from egyptians, is intended to give the state more secularism, guarantee equality between men and women, but also give the military a lot of autonomy. it should lead to the emergence of power through democratic elections. the key to resolving the political crisis in egypt is an open dialogue between all political forces. egypt needs a policy that is geared towards integrating a polarized society. only such policies will bring political stability, economic development and security. there are catastrophic reports of more bloody clashes and more deaths. this relentless wave of violence is making the situation more acute and making it more difficult to find a compromise. we therefore call on all parties to refrain from violence and on the egyptian authorities to ensure the safety of all citizens, regardless of their political views and affiliation. it is also necessary to carry out objective and transparent investigations into all cases of killing, torture, degrading treatment and intimidation of peaceful demonstrators and to bring the perpetrators to justice.
madam president! egypt has been accompanied in this chamber first by enthusiasm for the arab revolution, then by disappointment that the elected president and government are not meeting our expectations, then by anxiety that there has been a coup, and now of course we are also concerned about how these steps of progress, how the drafting of a new constitution will serve the democratization of egypt. and i think there's another important thing to note: the egyptian national human rights council was established. it means that egypt cares about getting on the right track with respecting human rights. i think we should continue to support egyptian transformation, support the economy as well, but also support, above all, the nascent, we hope, democracy, support civil society. we have the instruments. we also want to help to ensure that there is no violence against minorities in egypt, especially those minorities that are associated with another religion or with a certain national difference. i think we can call on the egyptian authorities to bring about the legal solutions that accompany this new constitution as soon as possible and to guarantee the possibility of action for national and international civil society organisations.
madam president, i would like to make two points. one is a general message that goes from this house to egyptians who are fighting for democracy, who are fighting for the rule of law: this is magnificent and it should be so. we should stress this, and i think that is what we do. but i would also like to put something very concrete in that message, which is to ask how we can help those who are fighting for these values. one of the instruments we can offer is education. i remember that in the periods before we entered the european union, many more egyptian students took part in, or profited from, the education offered in western countries, including poland. what about now? could we do something more for those who are fighting for those values that we share, and in this way transmit something more concrete from this place to egypt?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. it is true that the summit lasted three hours instead of two days, which shows the state of relations between the european union and russia and the pit they have reached and that is bad news. we have a constant conflict with russia - this is syria, this is ukraine, this is human rights, what you were talking about. the resolution we are debating today does not take these things into account, or at least not sufficiently. i am pleased that there are a few things there: that there is a condemnation of the treatment of the eastern partnership countries as a traditional russian sphere of influence and that is good news. it's also good news that russia has been asked to open its archives. this is especially important for the countries that were once under soviet occupation, this is how to restore justice to these nations. it is also important to call for not using energy for political struggle, and i know that russia tends to use this very area of its economy for political influence. and finally, what we find interesting about this resolution is this objection to the way russia treats economic sanctions. the commissioner said that the main thing missing was the setting up of russian-eu working groups to oversee the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries. it's finding some extra arbiter whose meaning is hard to understand. i see the commissioner is nodding his head in disagreement. i'd be interested in the answer to that question. the second thing is that there was no information about sochi and what is related to sochi, which is a political boycott, to prevent putin from using this great event to propagandize his regime.
madam president! in the resolution on the recent summit between the union and russia, tabled by our group of european conservatives and reformists, we note in paragraph 1 that the summit was reduced in size, which symbolizes the current challenge in cooperation between the union and russia. the summit was indeed very short and cold due to russia's blocking of ukraine's accession to the eastern partnership. the union is trying to go on the offensive, but all the time we see the russian president in the offensive. immediately after the summit, russia announced that it would stop importing pork from the entire european union. i would like to ask the commissioner and mrs ashton how the european union as a whole is going to react. it has been passive so far, and the current events in ukraine are the result of this.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you so much for accepting my blue card. i too support the political boycott of sochi, but i was surprised by your argument. this morning, when my political group criticized one of the chairwomen for her conduct of the proceedings, you made the absurd argument that we criticize her because she is a woman. today you're only talking about gay and lesbian rights. are you able to talk about anything other than sex and to recognize that other things are equally important?
madam president! in eu-russia relations, we must not forget what happened on 10 april 2010 in smolensk. the plane crash killed polish president lech kaczyński and 95 others, including many high-ranking officials of the polish state. the cause of the crash, nearly four years later, has not been determined. we're still investigating the case. the russian authorities, despite repeated attempts and appeals by the polish side, refuse to hand over to poland the black boxes with flight records and the wreckage of the aircraft, which are key evidence to explain the causes of the crash. it's hard to understand why the russian authorities are holding the black boxes and the wreckage, even though they've had almost four years to thoroughly examine them. i believe that the european union should strongly demand that the plane wreckage and the black boxes be immediately returned to poland by the russian authorities as polish property and above all as crucial evidence for the explanation of the smolensk tragedy, the causes and circumstances of which remain a mystery.
madam president, the european union and russia found themselves on a collision course when russia suddenly questioned the eastern partnership programme of the union, which added to already heavily self-conflicting bilateral issues. russia cannot act against the eu, against eu values and, at the same time, take advantage of its strategic partnership status. the question has to be raised as to whether it is still a strategic partnership, because there are no common values, nor common goals. the summit was a kind of dialogue of the deaf. russian summits have been held under the shadow of the unacceptable and shameful pressure exerted by russia on ukraine to deter it from entering into an association with the european union. the last months have shown that russia has a clear negative stance on the eastern partnership and on ukraine’s european choice. russia must refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign ukraine and applying political and economic coercion, in breach of the helsinki final act and in breach of the 1994 budapest memorandum concerning ukraine’s security and the denuclearisation of ukraine. we should work towards such a solution, because if we do not, the spirit of the sochi games – which should be peace, dialogue and reconciliation – could be spoiled.
madam president! it is difficult to assess positively the effect of the last eu-russia summit. you can't get rid of the facade of a framework of so-called strategic cooperation. i certainly do not share the view of president barroso, who was gracious enough to say that eu-russia relations are developing at a spectacular pace. i'm deeply amazed by the abstractness of this summit. it has not touched on any real problems, which are not lacking: bilateral agreements on the construction of the south stream gas pipeline, the creation of an aggressive customs union, contrary to wto rules, the restriction of access to the opal gas pipeline, in clear violation of european law, the imposition of additional administrative charges on european trucks. the latest example is another embargo, this time on pork imports from the union. and another one in no time. let me just remind you that over the last six months, russia has implemented a ban on the import of live cows, pigs, sweets and dairy products. russia's protectionist maneuvers should be seen in terms of a trade war rather than friendly relations. we have every instrument we need to intervene in russia. but i feel like we're a little bit lacking in courage to use them. it is characteristic that during the summit even president putin's statement that russia cannot accept the union's involvement in ukraine because it did not send its representatives to political rallies in greece and cyprus, which are mired in crisis, was left unanswered. i think it is high time to ask ourselves what the future strategic partnership between the eu and russia should be, and not to continue playing games.
in writing. russia's policy towards the eastern partnership countries is absolutely unacceptable. we must strongly protest against the russian occupation of south ossetia and abkhazia. we are against the relocation of borders and the construction of border infrastructure and, under the pretext of the olympic games in sochi, the division of abkhazia into different security zones. we should defend the position that the regions of south ossetia and abkhazia are an integral part of georgia and that russia is violating the norms of international law and the 2008 agreement. it is difficult to imagine an eu-russia partnership if the kremlin continues to exert political and economic pressure and to treat the countries of the former soviet union as its sphere of influence.
madam president! female genital mutilation is a senseless form of violence, discrimination, child abuse, a brutal violation of the integrity and personality of women and girls, and a serious violation of human rights affecting 500 000 women in the union alone and over 125 million worldwide. most likely, this data is underestimated. within the union, statistics on the number of women and girls at risk of female genital mutilation are available only in some member states. the commission's communication contains many excellent and necessary actions to combat female genital mutilation in the european union and beyond. these actions need to be part of a global comprehensive strategy in order to deliver tangible results. a law is needed that will effectively protect girls from the criminal mutilation of their genitals. cooperation is needed within the eu, with the un, with ngos and with the communities affected by this problem. parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to submit a legal act on measures to promote and support member states' action to prevent and combat violence against women, including female genital mutilation. another issue is the effectiveness of the union's action outside europe in relation to fgm. a uniform restrictive policy is needed against countries that receive eu aid and do not take action to eliminate this criminal practice. parliament called on the commission to include a clause on the elimination of female genital mutilation in the negotiations and cooperation agreements with the countries concerned. what has been done? we have a duty to protect the victims of this kind of mutilation. psychological and medical support must be an integral part of prevention strategies.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i understand that the proposals and efforts which the commission is making are related to technical solutions in the field of inland transport. i'd like you to listen to me for one moment. and then there's the tourism, but i know from literature that there's a problem with the education of the children of these families, who often live almost their whole lives on boats. i call them sailors. now it's not so hard because we have good internet connections. however, the commission must take note of this, because it is a very important human factor: children who grow up on boats. that's why i wanted the commissioner to keep it from getting lost in all the technical stuff.
mr. chairman, please! yesterday, before the final vote on the report on climate and energy policy up to 2030, the proceedings i was conducting prevented me from giving an opinion on the final shape of the report. it certainly had an impact on the final vote. i received information this afternoon from the bureau of parliament that there had indeed been a breach of duty in this case. this is good news, but i would like to hear the official position of the president of the european parliament on this reprehensible practice.
mr. chairman, please! i am, on behalf of the efd group, requesting, pursuant to rule 177 (4) of the rules of procedure, that the house postpone the vote on this item until the next part-session. the backloading issue is extremely important and burdensome in its effects on european industry, leading to higher energy prices, leading to higher production costs and consequently higher unemployment. whatever our views on this matter and whatever our differences, let us show respect for each other and for certain rules of the game and postpone this vote, because we have to think about it, analyse the situation and then make a consequential decision on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! although air transport is becoming increasingly competitive, the protection of the rights of passengers in this mode of transport still leaves much to be desired. this is illustrated by the judgments of the european court of justice. i'm all for making travel more comfortable and making it easier to claim. however, it is worth noting that some of the proposals in this report may actually work to the detriment of consumers. for example, the delay compensation rules for connecting flights place a disproportionate burden on regional airlines, which can result in longer travel times and higher costs. in addition, passengers may be forced to check in multiple times during such journeys. some of the provisions will lead to more frequent cancellations by airlines, which will also result in loss of passengers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending the existing regulations (ec) no 261/2004 and (ec) no 2027/97 laying down the rules on aid and compensation to passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or long delay of flights. the increase in the number of flights and therefore in the number of passengers using airlines has led to a decline in the quality of services provided by air carriers and to frequent non-compliance with the rights of their passengers. the purpose of this regulation is therefore to strengthen the rules in respect of airline passengers. the proposed amendments classify their rights to assistance and compensation in the event of long delays in flight schedules in a more transparent manner. other regulations relate to the rights of passengers in the event of connecting flights, denied boarding, exceptional circumstances or emergency plans. i am convinced that the adoption of this report in today's vote will ensure that european union passengers can exercise their rights more efficiently and transparently and will also contribute to improving the level of service provided by air carriers.
in writing. - the need to harmonise passenger protection legislation through common regulations is of the utmost importance. the very frequent occurrence of flight delays or cancellations is a source of serious problems for passengers, both professional and financial. passengers who are denied boarding, as well as those whose flights are delayed or cancelled altogether, should be protected by the right to assistance in the purchase of new tickets and other facilities to increase the comfort of waiting for the next or delayed flight. an essential element of such protection is the right to fair compensation based on the failure or improper performance of an obligation by the carrier or the airport administration.
in writing. - almost all of us have been in a situation where a flight is delayed. in such situations, several airlines, especially the so-called low-cost airlines, do not provide passengers with any compensation for delayed flights. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. i therefore supported the proposal that airlines should compensate passengers whose flights are delayed or cancelled. the new rules reduce the time of flight delays, after which passengers are entitled to receive meals from the airline, to make a telephone call and, if necessary, to be accommodated. the new rules also provide that passengers are entitled to a refund of the price of a flight if it is cancelled or delayed for more than three hours, and also if they require a free flight to the required destination. the improvements also include the possibility for passengers to bring a coat, a hand baggage bag and a shopping bag with their airport purchases free of charge. similarly, a person may not be able to use a purchased airline ticket. in this case, most airlines do not provide a refund. i therefore supported the provision that a passenger is entitled to a refund of airport taxes even if he cancels his flight. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2010. failure to comply with the deadline would mean that the air carrier agrees to meet the customer's demands. thank you.
in writing. - almost all of us have been in a situation where a flight is delayed. in such situations, several airlines, especially the so-called low-cost airlines, do not provide passengers with any compensation for delayed flights. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. i therefore supported the proposal that airlines should compensate passengers whose flights are delayed or cancelled. the new rules reduce the time of flight delays after which passengers are entitled to receive food from the airline, make a telephone call and, if necessary, be accommodated. the new rules also provide that passengers are entitled to a refund of the price of a flight if it is cancelled or delayed for more than three hours, and also if they require a free flight to the required destination. the improvements also include the possibility for passengers to bring a coat, a hand baggage bag and a shopping bag with their airport purchases free of charge. similarly, a person may not be able to use a purchased airline ticket. in this case, most airlines do not provide a refund. i therefore supported the provision that a passenger is entitled to a refund of airport taxes even if he cancels his flight. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2010. failure to comply with the deadline would mean that the air carrier agrees to meet the customer's demands. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! energy and climate policy is one of the key activities both in the economic sphere and for the energy security of the community. unfortunately, current strategies tend to ignore the need to treat the most important areas equally, such as diversification, security of supply and the competitiveness of european businesses. i believe that the greenhouse gas reduction ceilings already in place are too high, are being implemented at the expense of other projects and are imposing an undue burden on businesses. so i agree with the argument that there is no justification for setting specific, precise values at such an early stage. flexibility in how countries achieve their reduction targets seems desirable. the results of international negotiations on climate packages and agreements on this matter should also be awaited.
in writing. - global warming is one of the biggest challenges facing the developed world today. according to un data, global co2 emissions increased by more than 50% between 1990 and 2010. the report adopted today sets out the eu's long-term policy for the new 2030 framework for climate and energy policy, which will replace the existing 2020 framework. the resolution calls on the member states to reduce co2 emissions by at least 40%, to obtain 30% of energy from renewable sources and to achieve 40% energy efficiency. i support strengthening climate policy and investing in renewable energy, but i believe that the dual goal of reducing emissions after 2020 is unrealistic and could reduce the competitiveness of european industry. the proposed targets do not take into account the specificities of the member states. and it is european governments that should set their own national targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency. i also agree with the comments that a specific co2 emission reduction ceiling should only be set after the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in paris in 2015, where the most responsible emitters will set their binding targets.
in writing. - i voted 'no' because the report did not adequately address the theses in my amendments, which were: better use of peak capacity in view of the different longitude of the union and the difference in astronomical time; construction of new south-bound transmission networks from wind farms installed in the north of the eu, i.e. over the north sea or the baltic, as well as those installed directly on those waters; greater attention to undervalued and under-researched energy sources; a shift away from the rhetorical doctrine of total decarbonisation of the economy to a reduction in gross emissions per unit of gdp; the need to take account of the energy policy objectives of the eu's primary energy source, i.e. the ets, and the need to increase the eu's carbon dioxide emissions by 3%, in line with the current policy; a shift away from the rhetorical doctrine of a total decarbonisation of the economy to a reduction in the energy efficiency of the eu's primary energy source, i.e. the eu's primary energy policy, and the need to increase its carbon dioxide emissions by 3%, based on the current policy; a shift away from the political need to a political and technological policy of absorption of carbon dioxide. i also pointed out that it is currently unrealistic to push for a single eu-wide energy paradigm based solely on renewable energy sources, because a methodological error is being made due to the fact that the distribution of these sources is uneven.
in writing. - i voted against this report. i think that at this stage it was not necessary to have it, and certainly not to have it in such a hurry. the debate on the strategic climate policy post-2020 should be left to the next parliamentary term, and it should be a substantive debate, taking into account environmental and climate objectives, but also the impact of their introduction on the competitiveness of the european economy and energy prices. today, instead of a substantive debate, ideological manifestos have been presented. we must not forget that, paradoxically, europe's overly strict climate standards may contribute to the global increase in greenhouse gas emissions. i fear that the european socialists and the greens, by setting out ambitious climate targets, will lead to a repeat of the lisbon strategy or the collapse of the european economy. and they're not going to save the climate, because the industry that leaves europe will be emitting even more greenhouse gases outside the eu. a separate comment is made on the scandalous treatment of the rapporteur by the vice-president of the ep who was in charge of the vote and the fact that he was not allowed to speak before the final vote.
in writing. - we want to fight climate change. we want to develop the renewable energy sector. we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. these are all noble goals, and we're committed to protecting the environment and ensuring access to clean energy for future generations. i'll take that. but when we implement solutions such as emissions trading, the use of a specific level of biofuels in transport or 'greening' agriculture, we cannot be guided by purely utopian motives. we need to look at the state of the economy, the energy sector, transport and agriculture here and now, look at the differences between the different regions of europe, and think about how to protect the earth's ecosystems without causing economic disaster in some countries. if a country's energy is based on coal, we cannot expect that country to radically transform its energy sector in a few years without disastrous consequences for the economy. we cannot ask the government of a country like that to take hundreds of thousands of jobs away from climate targets, to have farmers modernize their farms and change their business profile in an instant, and to have entrepreneurs abandon investments that were started just a few years ago and make new ones to change technology in a flash. these are not processes that can happen at the touch of a magic wand. we need transitional periods, aid schemes, restructuring support. let us not make hasty decisions that could seriously damage europe's economy.
in writing. - i decided, along with the majority of polish mps, to vote against the report because i thought it went too far. i believe that it will have a negative impact on the negotiating position of the polish government at the next climate summits and will contribute to the further elimination of coal as an energy source, which in turn will hit the polish economy. the drastic reduction of co2 emissions that the report proposes and the total elimination of coal from the energy sector after 2050 are contrary to poland's interests. this will further depend on russian gas supplies for the energy sector and drive up the price of co2 trading. we cannot allow future generations of poles to pay for the reckless and top-down climate policy goals of europe.
in writing. - the resolution adopted by parliament setting climate and energy targets for 2030, despite the deletion of some harmful provisions, is in my opinion completely detached from reality. it seems that, in the absence of similar action by the major global polluters, our efforts will only result in losses to europe's economy, with no measurable results in terms of climate protection. this is shown by the fact that the eu is the only country in the world that has reduced its emissions, but that the global emissions have risen by half! the economic crisis should make us realize how important industry is to the economy. this sector accounts for more than 80% of european exports and private investment in innovation. it is estimated that each new job created in industry creates 2 additional jobs in other sectors of the economy, which should give us pause at the current record unemployment in the eu. however, since the 1990s, the share of industry in the eu economy has been declining steadily and today stands at just 15%. here it is worth considering how the above-mentioned climate demands fit into the european commission's recently announced strategy for the reindustrialisation of europe, which aims to increase the share of industry in the economy to 20% within the next 7 years. are these actions not contradictory? the answer seems obvious.
in writing. - this own-initiative report is intended to guide the commission's further action on future binding 2030 climate and energy policy targets. but the question is: in the absence of an analysis of the implementation of the current political commitments, should the unrealistic ambitions imposed by the green group in the face of worsening competitiveness, industrial relocation and rising unemployment be so strongly supported by us socialists? i disagree with some of the arguments made by our colleagues in the group of the european people's party who are fighting hard to make this central element of the green group's programme a central element of the s&d group's programme. why would you do that? because it will have a negative impact on the social situation in our countries in the future. the current regulations in the so-called climate and energy package have already caused a lot of damage.
in writing. - a swift completion of the banking union is essential to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the euro area and the internal market as a whole. a banking union will overcome the current fragmentation of financial markets in europe and reduce the uncertainty that was one of the causes of the euro area crisis. it will also prevent taxpayers from paying for bank bailouts in the future. to this end, it is proposed to set up a rescue fund to which the banks themselves will contribute. with the agreement on pillar i of the banking union, i.e. a single, common banking supervisory framework, we are entering the crucial phase of work on pillar ii, i.e. a common framework for the restructuring and orderly winding-up of banks. the commission's proposed directive on this subject, once adopted by the european parliament and the council, will set out rules for the restructuring of banks in the eu that are experiencing serious financial difficulties and for maintaining their functions that are essential for the real economy, as well as rules for the sharing of losses and costs between shareholders, creditors and unsecured depositors of these banks. it is also necessary to speed up work on the last pillar of the banking union, namely the common deposit guarantee scheme.
in writing. - the legislative proposal from the european commission establishing a single resolution mechanism for all credit institutions established in the euro area and other member states participating in the single supervisory mechanism, including a single resolution fund fund fund funded by all financial institutions covered by it on an ex-ante basis and taking into account risk, is a necessary step towards the creation of a genuine banking union. this is an ambitious and balanced proposal, necessary to create a strong framework for dealing with future banking crises in the euro area (and participating member states). the proposal sets out three main objectives: to avoid costs for taxpayers, to protect deposits and to limit external damage in the event of an uncontrolled bankruptcy, especially for the real economy.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it seeks to impose new requirements and burdens on the farming and meat processing sectors and introduces new tasks for the administration in the area of control, which may result in an increase in bureaucracy.
in writing. - the new system was discussed at a meeting of the scofcah standing committee on the food chain and animal health, where it was pointed out that there may be problems with the implementation and enforcement of the new rules. it is therefore recommended that cooperation between veterinary authorities in the member states and the european commission be strengthened. for example, it is necessary to prepare detailed guidelines and interpretations on the law on meat marking. and this is a very important issue. if you make a mistake in labeling the raw materials, you could be charged with adulterating food. and such allegations can have very serious legal and financial consequences for the meat plant, because they threaten severe financial penalties and, above all, the loss of credibility of the food producer in the eyes of consumers.
in writing. - in order to benefit from the gsp tariff preferences, imported goods must, under the current rules, originate in the beneficiary country, certified by an appropriate certificate of origin of the goods, in this case the so-called form a or an invoice declaration. as from 1 january 2011, the gsp scheme has been subject to new simplified rules of origin under commission regulation (eu) no 1063/2010 of 18 november 2010 amending council regulation (eec) no 2454/93 laying down provisions for the implementation of council regulation (eec) no 2913/92 establishing the community customs code, as amended by implementing regulation (eu) no 530/2013. this regulation simplified the rules and procedures for gsp beneficiary countries while ensuring the controls necessary to prevent fraud.
in writing. - the continuous voting of the draft enabling the commission to dictate the auctioning of co2 emission allowances is another insidious attempt to use democratic procedures to force undemocratic, economically important decisions without consulting the member states, i.e. contrary to the treaties. it is clear that the commission, under the influence of certain lobby groups, is determined to take action that is harmful to the economies of the most economically weak countries, in the name of the climate dogma and the interests of certain environments. we should move away from the current ets, a pseudo-market mechanism that has failed the practical test. the objective of directive 2003/87/ec was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not the high price of the emission allowances themselves. the negative effects of the proposed intervention, i.e. the withdrawal of 900 million tonnes of this gas from the so-called co2 market, for individual member states have not been properly assessed. the recommendation for a decision had to be rejected once again, unequivocally and decisively, which i have done.
in writing. - european climate policy is in a transitional phase. the two main ideas underlying it the widespread use of renewable energy sources (res) and the reduction of co2 emissions have not been properly implemented. the average share of res reached 12,4% in mid-2012, representing a 1,9% increase since 2008. optimistic projections for the future suggest a possible growth rate of 6,3% by 2020 and a very low growth rate of 1,1% per year between 2020 and 2050. some member states are already starting to implement measures to limit the increase in the share of res by cutting subsidies.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that the destabilization of the internal situation in ukraine is conducive to russia's policy, and the attitude of the authorities in kiev seems to be inspired to some extent by the kremlin. the european union is therefore obliged to take account of the interests of the ukrainian people, who have expressed their desire to cooperate closely with the community in these dramatic circumstances. i ask president yanukovych to create a ukrainian policy that respects the will of the people. i call for constructive dialogue with the opposition to stop the escalation of the conflict and return to the path of democratic change. i hope that the deplorable acts of violence by the forces of coercion will be stopped and the crimes committed will be explained. in this critical moment, i express my full solidarity with the people of ukraine.
in writing. - mr. president, i have to go. president yanukovych signed very restrictive laws, in violation of all laws, tightening penalties for opponents of the authorities and restricting civil liberties. the tragic result of this law was the use of live ammunition and deaths. that's why we must do everything to stop the escalation of violence! i voted in favour of the draft resolution tabled by the efd group, which states that the political platform of the all-ukrainian union of freedom is contrary to the fundamental european value of respect for human beings irrespective of nationality and religion and believes that the measures taken by the european union should put pressure on the ukrainian government to hold democratic and fair presidential elections.
in writing. - europe strongly condemns the violence against peaceful demonstrators in ukraine and calls on russia to respect the right of other countries to choose how to decline their relations with the eu, without exerting economic and political pressure. i believe in respecting the rights of every citizen, and in this case the ukrainian citizens, who have the right to decide the future of their country and to express their views freely and peacefully. for these reasons, this resolution calls for immediate action with targeted sanctions against those responsible for the repression and death of demonstrators and for the establishment of a permanent european parliament mission in ukraine to facilitate dialogue between the parties.
in writing. - i have serious reservations about the draft resolution on ukraine. i am aware that the current parliamentary majority and the president are democratically elected and the european union has not contested the election result. ukraine needs peaceful change, peaceful debate, which will give ukraine and the ukrainian people a chance for a better future. i can't support recommendations like sanctions or demands regarding the shape of the ukrainian constitution. these are matters that a sovereign country, which is ukraine, decides on sovereignly. we should support ukraine and the ukrainian people together in their search for peaceful solutions, for opportunities for economic development, for social stability, for the fulfilment of their aspirations for a better life.
in writing. - i voted to pass a resolution on the situation in ukraine. in accordance with the resolution, i strongly oppose the use of any form of violence against ukrainian citizens. i call on the authorities to ensure that civil rights and fundamental freedoms are respected. all reports of human rights violations should be investigated and the perpetrators punished. i also support the imposition of travel sanctions and asset and property freezes on all those ukrainian politicians and businessmen who are responsible for the repression of the demonstrations and the death of protesters. in view of the many appeals i receive to engage in a solution to the conflict in ukraine, i believe it is necessary to establish a permanent european parliament mission in ukraine as soon as possible. this will allow parliament to participate in a peaceful dialogue to resolve the crisis in ukraine. ukraine also needs our financial support for economic and social reforms. political and financial stability are the necessary foundations for overcoming the crisis. it is important to speed up the work on the establishment of an aid package for ukraine.
in writing. - the ukrainian nail is getting longer. hanna herman, a moderately pro-western party of regions mp, said yesterday that no decision on constitutional changes will be made before yanukovych returns from the sochi olympics. meanwhile, thousands of protesters are warming themselves at the euromaidan barricades by the fires; the burning pine also gives warmth to the berkut and the interior ministry units stationed in the government district. a scenario seems likely in which the state of cold war continues until the 2015 presidential elections. and only then can we witness the decisive game.
in writing. - ukraine is in a very difficult internal situation today. the russians' clever play has led to the eu's capture and ukraine's entrapment in the kremlin's embrace. our policy towards ukraine was illusory and based on assurances, not on real actions. we invited and closed the door at the same time. we have focused on overseas cooperation and support for the countries of north africa, and we have left our eastern european neighbours behind. i am also concerned about the dominance of the euromaidan by nationalists from the swoboda party who openly call for a change of borders with poland and who are based on hatred of poles. i am glad that the ewg group was able and had the courage to take note of this fact. unfortunately, the european parliament has not had the courage to do so today.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. for three years now, we have been witnessing the conflict between the regime of bashar assad and the syrian people. although it has cost over 100,000 lives, the situation is still hopeless. the recent helicopter attacks on aleppo, which have killed dozens of civilians, are yet another example of a clear violation of international human rights standards. i agree with the american secretary of state, who calls it barbarism. my particular concern is the deteriorating situation of the christian minority. this is because the population is subject to regular killings for religious reasons, and so is somewhat outside the mainstream of the conflict. i appeal to the european institutions to take the most effective action possible to ensure the protection and guarantee the basic humanitarian needs of ethnic minority groups.
in writing. - on behalf of the efd group and myself, i have tabled a draft resolution on the situation in syria. in mid-december 2013, the syrian regime began bombing attacks targeting the civilian population of aleppo, damascus and daraya. according to un figures, more than 130,000 people have been killed in syria since the beginning of march 2011, most of them civilians. the draft resolution calls for the designation of the levant people's defence front, isis and all al-qaeda-linked organisations in syria as terrorist groups and strongly condemns the violence by president al-assad's forces. i voted in favour of the draft resolution by the efd group, which in the first place emphasises the condemnation of the torture and mass murder of civilians in syria by both sides in the conflict.
in writing. - europe commends the courage of the syrian people and reiterates its solidarity with their struggle for freedom, dignity and democracy. the assad regime and the most intransigent groups supporting it are systematically violating the human rights and security of syrian citizens through massacres, torture and ill-treatment. europe is fulfilling its obligations by providing humanitarian assistance and assistance through all possible channels and is proposing the political solution as the only way to safeguard the unity, territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of syria.
in writing. - more than 130,000 people have been killed in the violent crisis in syria since march 2011. the united nations high commissioner for refugees estimates that the number of syrian refugees is about 2,370,000, with more than 9 million people in need of humanitarian assistance in the country. the second international conference on syria took place on 15 january 2014. two weeks later, the geneva ii conference was held to establish a framework for negotiations and to make progress, including on the release of prisoners and the delivery of humanitarian aid. while the syrian opposition eventually decided to send a delegation to the conference, the fact that iran was invited and then the invitation was canceled, as well as a report suggesting the torture and deliberate killing of thousands of detainees by the syrian regime, created further controversy.
in writing. - in the face of moscow and beijing's opposition, there is no immediate foreign intervention in syria, although the opposition is increasingly inclined to believe that intervention is the only sensible way out. in the meantime, more civilians are dying. according to the un, at least 6,200 people have been killed so far. the weeks of siege of homs, particularly the rebel stronghold of baba amro, have claimed many lives. after nearly two months of bombing, hundreds of people have been killed and many homes have been destroyed. the whole city is running out of water, medicine and food. civilians faced an even greater problem: the retaliation of the military. bashar assad has proven in the past that he can handle internal problems if he is consistent and strong-arm. but in an age when information and propaganda is being spread electronically among protesters in the middle east, even a strong grip from security and the military may not be enough. so far, assad has consistently killed the rebels.
in writing. for over a year, the front in syria has remained stable. both sides have been entrenched in a war of attrition, with the civilian casualties being the highest. the whole conflict is beginning to take on the character of an ethnic and religious conflict. sectarianism is gaining strength, causing further stratification in society. the negotiating possibilities of the geneva peace summit have been limited and the drafting of a peace agreement is practically impossible. the rebels fighting the government are now led by islamic radicals who are trying to bring the war to europe. all of this makes it impossible to develop a coherent position on syria. the resolution adopted today is far from perfect and expresses our wishes today. but it is clear that parliament is changing its position and seeing the problem in syria for what it really is.
in writing. - egypt's new constitution, approved in a referendum on 14 and 15 january 2014, is a major step forward in the country's difficult transition to democracy. despite some widespread violations of fundamental freedoms and human rights, the new egyptian constitution has many positive elements. freedom of belief, equality for all citizens, the improvement of women's rights and the commitment to respect international human rights treaties represent a great opportunity to lay the foundations for national consensus, reconciliation and institutional and political stability in the country.
in writing. - egypt's new constitution was approved by 98.1 percent of voters, with 38.6 percent voting in a referendum held on january 14-15, 2014. international actors, while welcoming the new constitution, expressed concern over the arrests of many people who campaigned against the draft constitution, procedural violations during the vote, the ongoing violence and polarization in the country, and the political influence of the armed forces. the new law on public gatherings, processions and public meetings and the ban on the muslim brotherhood have created further controversy, while the situation in sinai remains unstable. parliamentary and presidential elections are due to take place in the coming months and will be another milestone on egypt's difficult road to democracy.
in writing. - the constitutional referendum is to allow the ratification of a new constitution to replace the one suspended by the army after morsi was removed from power. the bill removes islamist provisions that were approved in a 2012 referendum under morsi's presidency. it also increases the autonomy of the armed forces, which already have a powerful influence on egyptian politics. the new constitution bans parties founded on religious grounds. the most controversial provision, however, is the one that applies to the military, which allows the military to prosecute civilians in the event of a direct attack on the armed forces and their equipment. the adoption of the bill will change the order of the general elections scheduled for this year. in july, it was announced that parliamentary elections would be held first, but the proposed new constitution would allow for presidential elections to be held first.
in writing. - i will not hide that one of the most important issues for me regarding the situation in egypt is respect for the rights of coptic christians. in recent years, their situation has deteriorated considerably. waves of terrorist attacks, attacks, discriminatory laws have left the copts as a people who are rejected and marginalized in egyptian society. under president morsi, we have seen the rise of islamism and the all-powerful influence of the prominent muslim brotherhood. an analysis prepared for us by a polish professor clearly shows that during this period there was an increase in anti-christian attitudes and a legal attempt to sanction religious freedom in egypt. i hope that the new constitution and the newly elected government will change this trend. i am glad that the resolution we are voting on today in the ep also makes similar points.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. we're facing more and more issues with russia. brussels' unequivocal stance on the events in ukraine has resulted in another round of trade war. the russian and belarusian pork embargoes hit producers in the eastern eu countries the hardest. i hope that european diplomacy will be active in order to clarify this problem quickly in the interests of polish farmers. i am firmly opposed to russian pressure on the eastern partnership countries. the example of ukraine shows what this aggressive policy leads to. russia is not part of the partnership and should not be treated on an equal footing with the members of this association. i appeal to the russian authorities to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia, the most desirable expression of which would be an end to the occupation of abkhazia and south ossetia.
in writing. - the eu accuses russia of not respecting the rules of the wto, which it joined in august 2012. we are very disappointed with what has happened since then. we have seen attempts at protectionism and actions that are not in line with wto rules. in 2013, russia took 78 protectionist steps, more than any other country, an eu diplomat said. he recalled that last october the eu lodged a complaint with the wto over russia's recycling levy on imported cars. for 20 products, the russian import duties are in breach of wto rules. energy cooperation between the eu and russia is also not without its friction. the european commission is conducting antitrust proceedings against gazprom and preparing charges. it also calls for the renegotiation of the bilateral agreements concluded by six eu countries (bulgaria, hungary, slovenia, greece, croatia and austria) on the construction of the south stream gas pipeline, as these agreements are incompatible with eu law. the eu is the most important consumer of russian energy resources. 29% of the oil and gas consumed in the eu comes from russia. these raw materials account for 76% of russian exports to the eu.
in writing. - the european union, contrary to expectations, has not been able to respond in a realistic way to the policy pursued by russia towards europe for years. we have not responded to reports that the russians have deployed strategic missiles in the kaliningrad region. we stood by while russian fighters and bombers practiced simulated attacks on sweden and russian-belarusian troops on poland. western european countries have allowed the central part of the continent to be encircled by a network of russian pipelines. the war in georgia in 2008 did not teach us european solidarity with russia. that's got to change. the current actions of the kremlin in ukraine, arbitrary and at the same time completely far from the democratic will of the majority of ukrainians, are another example of our passivity. poland has been calling for greater eu solidarity with russia's foreign policy for years. we asked for the eastern partnership programme to be strengthened. all our requests so far have been for nothing. ladies and gentlemen, we have no time. we must act.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. the transition in bosnia and herzegovina is by far the weakest compared to other countries in the region. the lack of political commitment has led to the european commission's decision to suspend aid to the country, and the council of europe is considering suspending it as a member of the organisation. the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina have a huge amount of work to do if they intend to join the community in the future. the basis is the cooperation of all groups in order to develop a coherent vision of the functioning of the state. changes are needed in the administrative, judicial and financial spheres. the problem remains the high level of corruption. i hope that active steps will be taken to enable fully democratic general elections to be held in the near future. bosnia and herzegovina, on the other hand, deserves recognition for its constructive role in regional cooperation and its activism in resolving border disputes with serbia and croatia.
in writing. - the eu remains strongly committed to a sovereign and united bosnia and herzegovina. however, governments and competent authorities need to strengthen the efficiency and functionality of their institutions to ensure the transposition and application of european values throughout the country. the european union is therefore trying to mediate between the different political groups in order to make progress on reforms and improve the quality of life of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. - the continued lack of a common vision among the political leaders of the three ethnic groups is disturbing. constitutional reform should simplify the complex and inefficient institutional architecture resulting from the dayton agreement. the commission should do more to facilitate agreement on how to implement the 2009 sejdic-finci ruling of the european court of human rights prohibiting discrimination against minorities. the eu and heads of state need to show a stronger interest and personal commitment to the country, and bosnia and herzegovina should be the top priority of the next enlargement commissioner. the political representatives of bosnia and herzegovina must take the final step and reach a balanced agreement on the implementation of the sejdić-finci judgment. this is essential for bosnia and herzegovina's integration into the eu.
in writing. - it has not yet been granted candidate status, although negotiations were launched in 2005 and the stabilisation and association agreement was signed in 2008. bosnia and herzegovina has so far made only limited progress towards meeting the eu's preconditions. the obstacles are: political instability, the endangered unity of the country (separatism of the serbian part), deep ethnic divisions, high crime, strong mafia structures, a weak economy that is not open to competition in the single market and the 121st place in the index of economic freedom. the challenge is to ensure an independent, impartial and effective judicial system, particularly in relation to the handling of war crimes. the reform of the administration and the fight against corruption in relation to political parties are awaiting implementation.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. the republic of macedonia, in my opinion, fulfils all the conditions for the opening of accession negotiations. i hope that the timing of the initial talks will be agreed without further unnecessary delay. the key issue remains the finding of a satisfactory solution to the name dispute. the current greek presidency could be an opportunity to work out a constructive agreement. i support the idea of macedonia being included in the macro-regional strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea region. the country has been very active in regional cooperation for many years, with particular noteworthy success in its leadership of the south east european cooperation process (seecp). i also look forward to deepening economic cooperation with macedonia and to the benefits of joint action on energy security.
in writing. - i voted to accept the resolution of deputy howit, because i believe that the document prepared by him is comprehensive and reliable. i shall refer to aspects of employment policy in my speech. i agree with the rapporteur that the government of fyrom should take increased action to improve the labour market situation. according to the documents of the european commission, the unemployment rate in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in the second quarter of 2013 was almost 30%. moreover, as the european commission report shows, fyrom made very little progress last year in creating an effective and inclusive labour market. however, i hope that the fyrom government will take appropriate steps to stimulate economic growth and increase employment. as a relatively new eu member, i am aware of the challenges facing the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. but i am convinced that determination and hard work will help us achieve the goal of joining the european union.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. it is important that the european project enjoys the support of all political forces and the majority of the population, and that montenegro has managed to close the first negotiating chapters and open several others. the accession programme should remain the main driving force behind the country's further political, social and economic reforms. the inclusion of civil society representatives in the negotiating structures is noteworthy. the accession policy is being supported by institutional changes, including the enhancement of the role of the parliament, the independence of the judiciary and the launch of administrative reforms. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's external action programmes, in particular on the implementation of the union's external action programmes. it is worth noting that funds under the instrument for pre-accession assistance are allocated correctly and efficiently, which allows consideration to be given to simplifying the administrative procedure for these measures.
in writing. - montenegro has been an official candidate for eu membership since december 2010. in 2011, following a positive assessment of montenegro's progress, the european commission even suggested the formal opening of accession negotiations, but this proposal was postponed by the eu council in december 2011. the weak economy, high crime, corruption, discrimination, lack of full press freedom continue to be obstacles to the country's accession to the union. it will be a few years before the former yugoslav republic, with a population of 680,000, becomes a member of the community, but montenegro is already ahead of the rest of the region in the race to adopt the euro as its currency.
in writing. - according to the world health organization definition, female circumcision includes all procedures aimed at the partial or total removal of the external female genitalia or other forms of female genital mutilation without medical justification. this procedure has cultural, religious or social origins and is performed on young girls up to the age of 15. it is a form of child abuse and violence against women and girls. female genital mutilation has serious short- and long-term consequences for the mental and physical health of the victim. in the member states of the union where women and girls who have been or may be victims of female genital mutilation live, the practice is mainly in the country of origin and occasionally in the member state of the union. on 21 september 2010, the commission adopted a strategy for equality between women and men for 2010-2015, which sets out priorities in the area of gender equality, including ending gender-based violence. the strategy specifically addressed the issue of female genital mutilation. on the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation, which was celebrated on 6 february 2013, the european commission reaffirmed its strong commitment to combating this brutal practice.
in writing. - the european commission presented on 10 september 2013 a new naiades ii programme, which aims to increase the number of freight transported by rivers and canals in europe while continuously improving the quality of inland waterway transport. the planned actions are designed to increase the use of europe's 37 000 km of waterways and make the transport of goods by water easier and more environmentally friendly through some changes and standardisation. the naiades ii programme of activities is also intended to contribute to the establishment of a stable long-term framework for investment in inland navigation, to the expansion of activities to promote the innovation of such transport and to the introduction of new short- and medium-term solutions such as the modification of costly technical requirements.
- mr president! - i'm not going to do that. thailand is an important country in asia and also an important partner of the european union. our economic relations are developing quite dynamically. we must therefore also draw attention to thailand's significant democratic deficits as a partner of the european union. the rather dramatic events of the past few days indicate that we need to draw the attention of the thai government, thai politicians and both the ruling and the opposition that there are certain basic principles and rules of democracy that all must follow. we also need to call on the military to stand aside, to not interfere in the political choices of the thai people. we therefore call on all thai political forces to initiate and continue a constructive dialogue.
mr. chairman, please! a peaceful solution to the crisis requires a constructive dialogue between the opposition and the ruling parties, and we therefore welcome the initiative of the national human rights commission to organise a consultative meeting with intellectuals, representatives of social movements, religious leaders and four former prime ministers. the european union and asean must support dialogue and action for democracy in thailand. it is crucial to stop the escalation of violence; the arrests of the leaders of the anti-government demonstrations may further exacerbate the situation. as the protesters have vowed to continue their protest, i call on the thai authorities to guarantee the protection of freedom of speech, the right to peaceful assembly and association. the next step should be for the government, the electoral commission and the opposition to agree on reforms and approve them in a referendum. in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the eu-thailand partnership and cooperation agreement, i stress the need to respect democratic principles and human rights as the basis for mutual cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! the deepening crisis in bangkok since last autumn and the ever-increasing number of victims and injured are causing increasing concern in europe. the protesters are demanding a change of government and a profound reform of the political system. the main opposition group, the democratic party, blocked access to most polling stations on february 2 where the preliminary round of early elections were held, calling for their boycott and the formation of a reformist people's council, which resulted in the election being suspended. violent clashes between supporters and opponents of the government continue, deepening the paralysis of the country and leading to its complete destabilization. the thai authorities must lift the state of emergency declared on january 21st, ensuring that the public is respected for their basic civil liberties, including freedom of speech and assembly! the democratic party should allow a general election to be held in the country, which would be a chance to break the political impasse and practical paralysis of the country that has been going nowhere for three months. only a solution based on respect for the law, democratic principles and the political will of the thai people will be sustainable.
mr. chairman, please! almost 10 years ago, our thoughts, our hearts were with thailand when it was one of the countries that was hit hard by the tsunami. thousands of people died, including hundreds of europeans who had gone there on holiday. we did everything we could to support thailand and help her through this disaster. there was an element then, today we have a different problem, an internal-political problem, that is, a conflict that is escalating, and we are really worried that it will not turn into a civil war. we appeal to both sides of the conflict - and to the authorities, and to the opposition - to avoid violence in this conflict, because it will really lead to further misery and thailand will lose a lot. many people in europe would like to go to this country, to see its sights, its many wonderful places. thailand must not lose this.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my concern about the violation of human rights in the transnistrian region, especially in the area of education, which i have spoken about today. the situation is tense because of the state of conflict that has persisted for many years. now we have the violations of fundamental rights in the field of education and school activities. and yet, everyone must have the opportunity to learn in their own language. in response to these tensions caused by the self-proclaimed actions of the transnistrian authorities, the resumption of negotiations was scheduled for 27-28 february this year under the 5+2 formula, i.e. moldova, transnistria and the osce, ukraine and russia as mediators and the european union and the united states as observers. i would like to express the hope that the next round of negotiations will provide an opportunity to break the deadlock.
mr. chairman, please! human rights issues are important both to the countries that are europe's neighbours and to neighbours in europe, especially as moldova, which is vitally interested in this, is after all an eastern partnership country. we must respond, especially where the fundamental right to education is violated, and that is the right to education in a minority language. i think that the announcement of this meeting of the 5+2 group, which has not had any success since 1992, may bring some significant progress in this matter, but on the other hand we also know that these decisions or any progress is blocked by the self-proclaimed government in tiraspol. it seems to me that this is an important issue from the point of view of human rights protection in the european parliament too, and we must express our indignation here, on the one hand, and our concern about the tensions, because these tensions in regions of frozen conflicts are particularly difficult to resolve.
in writing. i am disappointed that once again the european parliament is forced to react to the disturbing news coming to us from the transnistrian region. the harassment, intimidation and repression of citizens in the area in december shows how fragile the situation is still. this is confirmed by the events that took place in the liceum "luca blaga", where the interrogation of teachers and the blocking of their bank accounts for several weeks are an example of the scandalous lack of respect for fundamental freedoms and civil rights, such as the right to education, privacy and the right to information. respecting the autonomy of national minorities and ensuring that their citizens have the opportunity to study in their mother tongue, in accordance with their own beliefs and values, should be a priority for the authorities in the region. i call on the international institutions to be more involved in working on a common dialogue, including between the people and the authorities of transnistria. i also believe that the european union should play a more active role in this process, which aims to bring about a final settlement to the conflict. i would like to take this opportunity to express my regret at the behaviour of the russian federation, which, despite earlier international agreements, has still not definitively withdrawn its peacekeeping forces from the territory of moldova. the continued presence of foreign troops is undoubtedly having a negative effect on the atmosphere in the region.
mr. chairman, please! the human rights situation in bahrain is a matter of great concern to the international public. the authorities openly ignore basic civil liberties, including the right to assembly, protest, and freedom of expression in the press and media. public figures are increasingly being subjected to unjustified arrests, such as nabeel rajab, the president of the bahrain centre for human rights, who has been in prison for more than two years, abdulhadi al-khawaja, an activist serving a life sentence for his peaceful human rights work, and ibrahim sharif, a prominent bahraini oppositionist jailed for participating in peaceful demonstrations in 2011. these individuals, like dozens of others, are victims of secret trials, fabricated evidence, humiliation, torture and inhuman treatment. the policy of the bahraini authorities should be condemned, while demanding the implementation of the 2011 bahrain independent commission of inquiry report, which calls for an end to the abuses related to the inhumane treatment of prisoners and violations of fundamental rights.
madam president! the legislation that calls for a reduction in the carbon emissions of new passenger cars to 95 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer by 2020, coupled with changes in production and so-called super-units, is the beginning of a so-called revolution. this is going to be a revolution for the 21st century, and it's going to show us what we can do in the automotive industry. and the important thing is that this is driven, in a sense, by the climate itself, but it's also driven by new activities, like the fuel prices that are in place right now. and we also have to realize that all of these changes will also trigger the possibility of new technologies in the research units. these units were also waiting for a push to start working on new electric motors, for example. they also provide incentives for the manufacturers themselves to innovate. we just have to make sure that we don't throw the baby out with the bathtub and introduce laws and regulations that will eventually block this industry, and the rest should go in the right direction.
in writing. co2 emissions are a measure of fuel consumption and vehicle economy. the problem is not motorization, but the emission of sulphur, nitrogen, dust and co and noise. progress is about efficiency. in the derived calculation, this is the co2 emissions from combustion, car manufacturing and dismantling. japan leads the world in automobile manufacturing. the us producers, due to their lower unit costs of production, are more profitable than europe, which is losing its industrial competitiveness globally. the innovation potential of the automotive sector is very high and concerns engines, bodywork, fuels and tyres. there are many patents on innovation in the cupboards of companies that block development instead of initiating it. there are no easy objectives - europe and the world are waiting for a revolutionary breakthrough in this field - the commission's proposal must be supported. supercredit is a good incentive for companies looking for energy-efficient technologies. when analysing co2 emission figures, other co2 emission figures, such as per passenger or engine power to vehicle standard work, should be considered. the lack of competitiveness of the european automotive industry results in the relocation of automotive production to third countries not burdened by the commitments under the climate and energy package. the european car market is different from that of the usa and other non-eu countries. perhaps the solution for the eu, based on pro-environmental law, would be to tighten up the admission criteria in the member states.
madam president! the community trade mark system, which had been in place for 15 years, required modernisation of the rules and alignment of its terminology with the treaty of lisbon. the improvement of the system together with the internal market harmonisation office responsible for registration will have a significant impact on innovation and economic growth in the union through better access for businesses and simplification of trademark application procedures. online sales in the union have increased significantly in recent years: 61% of users bought products online, an increase of 11% compared to 2008. the main objective of the existing community system and of economic property rights at national level is to prevent fraud as regards the origin and quality of products. the current changes will make it much more difficult to introduce counterfeit goods into the union (especially in online sales). however, i believe that the legal instruments enabling the trade mark proprietor to take action to prevent the import of counterfeit goods or to initiate legal proceedings against persons committing misuse should be clarified, together with the weakening of the authorities responsible for monitoring websites selling such items. the elimination of divergences in the rules of the current legal framework and the coexistence of the union system with national systems are the basis for a well-functioning internal market.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. crime can't pay. that's the basic meaning of punishing criminals. the state judiciary cannot be limited to the criminal punishment of deprivation of liberty or restriction of the freedom of the convicted person, but should do everything to deprive the offender of any benefits derived from the crime. everything he has obtained through crime, what he has stolen, what he has robbed or, for example, bought with the benefits obtained through corruption, should be effectively taken away from him. if the crime has caused harm to someone, the benefits should be used to repair that harm, and if the harm is in the interest of the state, the confiscated property should become the property of the state. if the criminal loses all the benefits of his crime, if he repairs the damage, only then does justice become full. only then does punishing criminals prevent future crimes. this is the purpose of the directive we are discussing today. it is a good directive, allowing for more effective prosecution and punishment of criminals, for a fairer punishment. that's why i'm supporting her.
the confiscation of proceeds of crime laws in many eu countries are ineffective. criminal suspects, operating in organised groups, transfer their assets to third parties and to other countries. this is facilitated by the lengthy legal proceedings and the practice of confiscation only after a conviction. then there's often nothing left to confiscate. this pathology needs to be changed. in the most serious cases, the choice is between direct confiscation, confiscation of the equivalent of the property or confiscation of the property transferred to a third party. it would also be necessary for all eu countries to mutually recognise the possibility of confiscating and freezing the proceeds of crime. while i agree with these harsh measures, i would point out that they should be applied provided that decisions are taken by the judicial authorities, with due regard for the rights of the defence. we must act decisively and quickly, but these cannot be administrative decisions, but always decisions of the judicial authorities.
in writing. the eu has been in dispute for some time over the shape of the extended confiscation directive, and we have lost valuable time. i welcome the report by mrs macovei. it's a very interesting and valuable document, strategically important to our efforts in the fight against organized crime. the project envisages the introduction in all member states of the following types of confiscation: confiscation of the instrumentalities and proceeds of crime or their equivalent in connection with a conviction; extended confiscation of the property of a convicted person, decided in criminal proceedings; confiscation of the instrumentalities and proceeds of crime without a previous conviction in the event of the impossibility of continuing criminal proceedings; confiscation of property transferred by the offender to third parties. it's the minimum, but how important it is for our fight against organized crime, a fight that is undoubtedly global today.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we've talked a lot here about being competitive with the united states of science, with the united states of research, but also with the united states of economics, with the united states of economics. we must open up, we must allow competition also in our universities, in our research institutes, and this is absolutely the right direction. i say this as a scientist, as an employee of the university. the university should be a place of competition, and those people who come to us are very often more wanted than europeans who think they just have the data. the second important thing is that this is a way of solving the demographic bomb, which is that there are fewer and fewer of us in europe. i hope that people like that come to us, that people like that who are well educated come to us and bring their families and settle here. what is worrying is the over-developed social dimension of the report, which should be regulated by the national states and not by directives from the european parliament. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. and i pointed out in my speech that this kind of opening up of the labor market, but also this kind of opening up of our universities, our research institutes, is something that we should invest in, because it's going to pay off. we as europeans. it's good for those who come to us, but it's also good for us who open up. i think as an islander, you should support it. what is worrying is that a large part of the freedoms or rights that should be regulated by the nation states, by their parliaments, are being handed over to the eu institutions and here, i understand, you should also be satisfied with my answer.
mr. chairman, please! i was surprised to read in the commission's explanatory statement that 'europe will increasingly rely on immigration to fill jobs and generate growth. well-managed immigration could solve the problem of ageing. i don't agree with that at all. i don't know what europe the authors of this project know, because i know a europe where millions of educated, qualified young people can't find any work or are doing work below their qualifications and aspirations. more than 2 million young people, mostly well-educated, left poland. a lot of them wash dishes in the wealthier parts of europe. i don't want europe to close down, but we should think of our citizens first. europe's economic growth will not be ensured by immigration but by a wise employment policy, and a wise family policy will protect us from an ageing population, which the european union does not pursue at all.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to thank the commissioner and mrs striffler, who is our permanent rapporteur, for their commitment to this project. this is a very important project for the whole european union. one of the european union's tasks is to provide adequate humanitarian aid to those in need. in recent years, the number of humanitarian crises around the world has increased significantly, which requires us to coordinate our actions better. often, the relief had to be provided at the same time in different places. the idea of humanitarian aid is a beautiful one, and we all agree, but for the european response to be effective in crisis situations, it needs to be well organised and well coordinated. this is one of the reasons why the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps was set up. it is intended to contribute to the development of the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises and to build the capacity and resilience of communities in third countries vulnerable to or affected by natural disasters. it is important that the corps initiative is designed to complement and strengthen the european union's humanitarian action, and not duplicate existing structures. the corps will be guided by the applicable humanitarian aid principles and the european consensus on humanitarian aid. so it will hopefully be a source of added value for the humanitarian aid of the european union, but also for local organisations.
madam president! in the last few days you have seen the tragic events in maidan in ukraine, but today we are really expected to be active. anything can happen there, there can be a good scenario, there can be a bad scenario and there can be a very bad scenario. so we have to demand from the european union, which has repeatedly failed to meet its obligations, a number of things today that will help ukrainians choose the right path, and that means presenting an association agreement later this year, lifting visas for ukrainians later this year, especially for young people, for people who are trying to study in the european union, a trade agreement later this year that will increase turnover and provide jobs for ukrainians, including ukrainians in ukraine. we have our responsibilities, we have repeatedly failed to live up to our responsibilities, we owe a debt of gratitude to the ukrainians and we should pay this debt of gratitude.
mr. chairman, please! after the success of trwam, i was approached by journalists from the polish public television, because its management decided to transfer its journalists, editors and other employees to an external company, which de facto means the subsequent dismissal of many hundreds or even thousands of people. this decision was taken just before the elections to the european parliament. it is, as the journalists argue, incompatible with the council directive of 12 march 2001, with article 22 of the polish labour code and with the law on radio and television in force in poland. this action not only demonstrates the instrumental treatment of journalists, editors and others, but may violate the principle of media freedom. in view of the interest shown by the president of parliament, mr martin schulz, i am also sending a written question to the european commission, as provided for in the rules of procedure.
mr. chairman, please! the fight against trafficking in women, including prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, prostitution, the prostitution, which is the meaning of the meaning of the meaning of the usually, these are members of organized crime groups for this kind of activity. but let us also remember that in some places the law is already relatively harsh, but it is not enforceable. it is very important that the political authorities understand the need to make effective use of these laws that have already been adopted in individual countries. it happens, for example, in poland, that there is a common practice of the so-called tirówki, that is, women who provide sexual services on the roads. they're usually southern women, and they're used in horrible conditions by pimps. that's a crime. you have to fight it, you have to use the rules that are there. there must be pressure on the political authorities to use these provisions.
mr. chairman, please! the practice of prostitution and pimping is mostly cross-border. the good law and the possibility of unifying certain provisions may therefore make it possible to reduce this practice. in addition, there is a need for systematic assistance from the member states to those who wish to leave prostitution, since prostitution is often a necessity linked to economic considerations. i therefore believe that this report deserves our support and that it is worthwhile to adopt a method of cooperation between the member states, particularly in the fight against transnational criminal groups.
mr. chairman, please! the single european market is playing an increasingly important role in stimulating growth. it is therefore rightly one of the major priorities of both parliament and the commission, with a view to competitiveness, the expansion of knowledge and innovation. however, the transposition of the relevant legislation by the member states still leaves much to be desired. the delays are as long as several years, which must cause concern to the european institutions. i'm hoping to increase our involvement in that area. in the current situation, the areas which have the potential to improve the competitiveness of european economies in particular seem to be the most urgent. i'm thinking about the energy sector, transportation, services and the digital market. in order to increase confidence in the single market, it is necessary to strengthen the protection of consumer and workers' rights. only then will its mechanisms be as effective as they are intended to be.
in writing. last year, more than 26 million people were unemployed and long-term unemployment reached historic highs. one in four young people, and in some countries even one in two, is out of work. inequalities in unemployment rates between member states have reached a long-standing record of 10 percentage points. more and more people are forced to migrate for work. we see the effects of increased labour mobility in the recent referendum in switzerland and in the social mood in the uk. we must be clear that the most important problem to be solved in europe today is high unemployment. economic growth and better financial performance of firms do not translate into employment growth, especially in countries with low competitiveness and a weak labour market. contrary to what the report suggests, it is not possible to introduce a flexible social protection model in all member states. for this model to work, you need scandinavian social solidarity and political culture - and this cannot be introduced from above. today, the union's priority task should be to draw attention to the importance of social issues. it therefore welcomes the inclusion of social and employment policy indicators in the annual report for the first time.
in writing. i believe that the european semester is becoming an effective instrument for coordinating and monitoring the economic policies of the member states, although the tight timetable is a serious obstacle to the proper conduct of consultations, both with parliament and with the social partners. in addition, it is necessary to develop indicators that adequately reflect the social and employment situation of individual countries and allow comparison of current data. i agree with the rapporteur that the biggest challenge at the moment is to maintain the pace of reform. however, the full functioning of the single market is necessary to reap the full benefits of structural reforms in individual countries and across the union, and to ensure sustainable economic growth. as i have stressed on many occasions, it is also necessary to better adapt education systems to labour market requirements and to anticipate and adapt education and training provision to economic restructuring trends.
in writing. the european semester, or european evaluation period for economic policy coordination, was established by one of the six-pack regulations in november 2011. it is the basic framework for enhanced economic governance in the eu. it is designed to combine the actions provided for in the europe 2020 strategy and the so-called fiscal compact. we are now in the fourth cycle of the european semester. importantly, there are already some signs of improvement in the european economy this year. some euro area countries in crisis and following difficult reforms are slowly coming to terms their trade imbalances are narrowing and competitiveness is increasing. this in turn translates into a slow return of confidence in financial markets and a fall in the cost of debt financing. the most urgent task facing the eu, and the euro area in particular, is to complete as soon as possible the construction of a banking union based on three pillars: a common single system of financial supervision, a common system for the orderly resolution of banks and a common deposit guarantee scheme. we are nearing the end of the second pillar of the banking union, which should be in place before the european elections. so there's a chance that we could have the whole structure completed in the next few years. the banking union should help to protect the eu from similar crises in the future.
in writing. in today's debate, we are once again raising important social issues. in discussing the european semester for economic policy coordination, we are also dealing with these issues which directly affect the economic situation of all the member states. the number of jobs, the real level of wages and the security and stability of pensions determine the economic wealth of europeans. it is on this that the ability of individual countries and the community as a whole to overcome the negative effects of the crisis depends. economic policy coordination must therefore be geared to achieving the best possible economic stimulus effect for the member states and the european union as a whole. the fight against unemployment and social exclusion, the development of programmes to enable people at risk of losing their jobs to acquire new skills and competences to improve their situation on the labour market, and the financing of programmes for young people to encourage them to take up training are just some of the very important common priorities that should be recommended to the member states. i therefore urge both the european council and the commission to coordinate, within the framework of the european economic policy semester, with a particular focus on the financing of programmes to stimulate and develop labour markets and to combat unemployment, especially among those at risk of social exclusion due to long-term unemployment.
in writing. - to return to growth, member states must commit more strongly to structural reforms and to closer integration of the euro area. the objectives of this package of initiatives - growth, financial stability and budgetary discipline - are interlinked. we must achieve all of them if we are to overcome the current crisis and build a europe that balances solidarity with greater responsibility.
in writing. - i support the commission's initiative because it ensures the security of the sources of european union law, aims at simplification and efficiency, and guarantees the full exercise of democratic control powers and the provision of clear and transparent information to all concerned.
in writing. - i support the commission's initiative because it ensures the security of the sources of european union law, aims at simplification and efficiency, and guarantees the full exercise of democratic control powers and the provision of clear and transparent information to all concerned.
in writing. - congratulations to mr. oscar herricks on being named to the court of auditors.
in writing. - a member of the european parliament divides his working time between brussels, strasbourg and his constituency. in brussels, he attends meetings of parliamentary committees, political groups and additional plenary sessions, and in strasbourg, he attends twelve plenary sessions. in addition to these main activities, meps must of course also devote their time to activities in their constituency. members of the european parliament shall form groups according to their political opinions and irrespective of their nationality. members of the european parliament shall be independent in the exercise of their mandate. as meps have increasing powers, their work has an impact on all areas of citizens' daily lives: the environment, consumer protection, transport, but also education, culture, health, etc. the new statute for members of the european parliament entered into force on 14 july 2009. the statute introduces a uniform salary paid from the eu budget and provides greater transparency in remuneration.
madam president! the final report takes into account a number of derogations, for example the exemption of niche manufacturers producing less than 1[nbsp ]000 vehicles per year from the obligation to set and achieve annual targets. a transitional period of one year will allow larger producers to adapt to the new requirements without risk of penalties. this is the optimal approach to rationally reduce emissions from new cars. low-emission vehicles will not only be more environmentally friendly but also more economical, which will particularly please potential buyers.
in writing. - the regulations on emissions to the environment apply to new passenger cars. changes made in good time should not be a problem for manufacturers. caring for the quality of urban air is an important part of the project. we must not forget that, according to the latest report, the largest cities in silesia and lesser poland are among the top ten most polluted cities in the eu. in the long term, the project will contribute to improving the quality of life. the project also aims to make europe independent of oil supplies. in addition, the focus is on innovation in the automotive industry, which is a driving force for the development and restructuring of factories. equally important for citizens is the fact that it is the manufacturers who will be obliged to reduce emissions, which will consequently translate into lower fuel consumption for new vehicles, which will also have a positive impact on consumer spending in the long term.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. however, this must be able to be combined with the economic context in which the reference standards apply and take into account the difficulties faced by the european automotive sector.
in writing. - this legislation is the basis of the eu strategy to improve the fuel efficiency of new passenger cars sold on the european market. the aim is to reduce emissions from new passenger cars to an average of 130 grams of co2 per kilometre between 2012 and 2015 and 95g/km by 2020. the current commission proposal sets out ways to achieve the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars. reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars is good for consumers and the environment. it reduces fuel consumption while maintaining the competitive edge of the european automotive industry on the global market, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we must remember what the main objective is, which is to reduce co2 emissions effectively. regardless of how ccs technology develops, the european union must also pursue its renewable energy goals. it should be recognised that ccs is necessary in the case of the steel and cement industries. ccs is not a perfect solution, nor is it a panacea for all difficulties. the individual member states are free to achieve the targets. the market is not a panacea for all problems. the rapporteur wants to achieve climate goals only through the use of nuclear energy and ccs. in the long term, it will be impossible to achieve the long-term objectives without ccs.
madam president! the two-decade-old trade mark directive required a review. systemic solutions at european level, combining national and community rules, often fail to take account of the progress made in individual sectors in recent years. i agree with the basic dimension of the report, which takes into account the distinction between european and national registration authorities and simplifies trademark registration procedures. cooperation between the competent authorities should also be improved. this is particularly beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises. in addition, they can count on a reduction in administrative costs.
in writing. - in today's vote, i voted in favor of the community trade mark. it focuses on the review of the eu's trademark registration system, which has been in place for more than 15 years. the current system needs to be modernised in several respects, according to studies carried out by the european commission. first of all, the rapporteur proposes to modernise and update the rules, specifying the scope of trademark rights, which will eliminate the existing ambiguities. the next step is to harmonise trademark registration procedures in all member states, taking into account the cooperation between the eu agency office for harmonization in the internal market and national offices, which is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. another very important point is to streamline the legal means to enable trademark owners to take action to block the import of counterfeit goods into the eu. i believe that the adoption of the proposed changes to the community trade mark will reduce costs and simplify the registration process, which will improve the conditions for european businesses to operate. moreover, modernising the existing rules will help to improve innovation in europe and thus stimulate economic growth.
in writing. - a trade mark is important for the competitiveness of an enterprise because it allows the goods or services offered by a given enterprise to be distinguished from those offered by other enterprises and thus improves the position of the enterprises. i supported the report because the changes are improving the community trade mark system, which has already proved to be a great success. the new challenges of orphan works and intellectual property infringement require a new approach to these issues. the office for harmonization in the internal market is the competent body to address these challenges and i therefore consider it appropriate to increase its competence in this area. the brand should be seen as a driving force for innovation. it not only helps companies to acquire new customers, but also to build long-term trust between these customers and their company. the small business card provides for the enhancement of the accessibility of the community trade mark system to smes. the duration of the procedure is particularly challenging, as are the costs, which can be a major barrier for small businesses. of course, national trademark systems are still necessary for those companies that do not seek eu-wide protection for their trademarks. the report will stimulate innovation and growth by making trade mark registration systems more accessible to businesses and more efficient across the eu, thereby ensuring complementarity between the eu and national trade mark registration systems.
in writing. - a community trade mark may be obtained by registration at the office for harmonization in the internal market in alicante, spain. the authority shall be an agency of the union. investments in e-business tools allow him to connect with businesses around the world via the internet. a community trade mark may consist of any sign capable of being represented graphically, in particular of words (including names), drawings, letters, figures, the shape of goods or their packaging, provided that such signs enable the goods or services of one undertaking to be distinguished from those of other undertakings.
madam president! the directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds from crime responds to a social need. it will provide member states with a legal basis for confiscating and freezing assets acquired in breach of the law or by omission. the minimum sanctions that may be applied are defined, such as direct seizure, equivalent or retaliatory seizure, as well as seizure without a previous conviction and seizure against third parties. the regulations take account of the rights of the defence and the possibility of appealing the decision in court. these standards are a step towards facilitating the fight against organised crime while facilitating international cooperation in property recovery.
in writing. - poland sees the need to look for innovative legal solutions that serve to deprive criminals of their economic backing. but as far as the long-term mechanism of confiscation without a prior conviction is concerned, we are at the beginning of negotiations, not the end of the road. poland's final support will depend on the shape the institution will take,' deputy minister michał królikowski said during the meeting. confiscation without a prior judgment is in place in some european union countries. however, it is often based on different legal and axiological solutions.
madam president! this report has succeeded in establishing a balanced position, analysing best practices from across europe and, above all, implementing them into the eu trade mark system. i would like to draw attention to the growing importance of online commerce, which further highlights the need to ensure the protection of product brands. i hope that the modernisation package on trade marks will improve the competitiveness of european businesses while respecting intellectual property. i also expect further simplification of administrative procedures and a systematic reduction of divergences in the rules.
in writing. - trade mark law in the eu has been harmonised. the new rules in this area strengthen the harmonising aspects of the law and procedures applied by national trade mark offices. at present, a community trade mark coexists with national trade marks. it is important to maintain this dual system, because for those companies that do not seek to have their trademarks protected throughout the eu, it is the mark protected in the territory of a particular member state that has the real added value. some companies need protection for their trademark in only one country, while others are interested in protection throughout the european union. the needs of companies are different. the trade mark system should be sufficiently simple and flexible to give users of the system access to protection appropriate to their needs. it may still happen that a company does not seek protection throughout the eu, but also that it does not seek protection in just one country, but for example in several. in such situations, clear and simple procedures for obtaining protection in each country are particularly important in order to make national trademark systems more attractive to users. and these regulations will make it easier. the review of existing legislation protects and strengthens this two-tiered trademark system in europe.
in writing. - on 27 march 2013, the european commission presented a package of initiatives to streamline and improve trademark registration systems and to ensure their protection is more effective and reliable. it is now more than 20 years since the first directive aimed at harmonising trade mark law and more than 15 since the creation of the community trade mark. the system worked, but now it needs improvement. the earlier amendments to those provisions, which resulted in the directive and regulation currently in force, were of an orderly nature. now, after two decades, the time has come for the next step, which is to mainly harmonise the registration systems of the member states. the proposed amendments reflect experience gained and were considered on the basis of a report by the max planck institute on the functioning of the trade mark systems of the member states and the community system.
in writing. - new trademarks appear on the market almost daily, becoming a valuable asset for a company and an essential element in the promotion of the goods or services produced. however, the system is primarily aimed at consumers, who can make an informed choice by identifying the origin of the product. harmonising national systems and creating a common eu trademark at the same time was one of the first successful eu projects in the field of intellectual property law. although both the directive and the regulation have stood the test of time and their foundations are still valid, a reform is necessary to bring the law into line with current realities. the proposed amendments aim in particular to facilitate access to protection by reducing costs, simplifying procedures, increasing legal certainty and taking into account the extensive case law of the european court of justice. the coordination between national offices and ohim is also to be improved. i believe that mechanisms for quick and affordable legal protection will be a key tool for legitimate traders to effectively combat counterfeiting and to reap the benefits they deserve from the sale of genuine products. the modern system will also provide an incentive to continue to improve the offer and to build consumer confidence in european brands. i therefore fully support parliament's position today and look forward to rapid progress in the council.
madam president! europol shall support the police forces of the member states through information exchange, analytical activities and training. in order to improve efficiency and mutual cooperation, it should be easier for officials to establish a network for the exchange of information. the use of new data processing tools will also allow for more efficient analysis. the proposed solutions will increase the effectiveness of europol and the european cybercrime centre, which will translate into increased security for union citizens. by using best practice and improving the flow of information, these institutions will be a real asset to police officers in the community countries.
in writing. - the european union needs an efficient and cost-effective agency capable of assisting member states in combating serious crossborder crime and terrorism, ensuring the safety and security of citizens and protecting legitimate trade. our proposals aim to strengthen europol's role as a european law enforcement agency, improve the protection of personal data, increase europol's accountability to the european parliament and national parliaments and ensure the quality and consistency of training offered to operational officers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of this report, which will greatly simplify the procedures for admitting third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, school exchange, training, volunteering or au pairing. it is all the more important in the context of an ageing population and the difficulty of finding enough skilled people in many sectors of the economy across the european union. in addition, complex and time-consuming procedures for applying for visas or residence documents often discourage third-country nationals from pursuing studies or traineeships in the union, thus opting for more attractive and skilled labour-friendly locations in the world. i believe that an efficient migration policy towards talented people from third countries is of the utmost importance in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in order to stimulate investment in research and innovation, to ensure economic growth in the union and to curb unfavourable demographic trends.
in writing. - the commission proposal aims to improve the provisions on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the eu. europe has long been a very attractive labour market for skilled workers worldwide, but today we are in danger of seeing a reversal of this trend. in order to make the eu increasingly competitive on the world market, action is needed to enable third-country nationals to stay in the union states to seek work or to set up a business, but first and foremost to ensure that our students and unemployed young people have greater access to the labour market.
in writing. - the report i supported concerns the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals (researchers, students, pupils, trainees, volunteers and au pairs). it is part of a package of legal acts on migration which includes the seasonal workers directive (recently adopted by the plenary) and the intra-corporate transferees directive (still under negotiation in the trilogue). the original proposal of the european commission has been revised to make the european union more attractive to the above-mentioned groups of third country migrants. the eu has also introduced a number of new measures to help students to find jobs and start their own businesses. the legal instruments on migration are a step in the right direction on the eu's path to developing a rational and positive approach to the broad phenomenon of migration.
in writing. - the first directive (on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of engaging in a highly skilled occupation) is implemented by the inclusion of a new chapter 4a in the aliens act. it contains provisions specifying the conditions for granting a residence permit for a specified period in poland with the intention of performing highly qualified work. the authorisation will be granted under a single administrative procedure. the deadline for the case is 90 days. the voivodeship will be obliged to determine, among other things, whether the foreigner has the appropriate qualifications, meets the salary threshold criterion and whether the employer can take advantage of job offers on the local labour market. the findings will be communicated to the voivodeship by the mayor based on an analysis of the register of unemployed and jobseekers or a negative result of the recruitment organised for the employer. when issuing a decision on granting a residence permit for a specified period in order to take up employment in poland in a profession requiring high qualifications, the governor shall examine the amount of remuneration set out in the employment contract.
madam president! the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, modelled on the un volunteers programme, is an initiative to address the need to respond to the threats posed by disasters or natural disasters. first of all, it enables volunteers, usually young people, to get involved in disaster areas. they can also help to make rescue operations successful and gain valuable experience. their involvement will furthermore increase the effectiveness of the humanitarian aid provided by the european union and the member states. i am very pleased to see the active participation in the process of developing ideas of a corps of leading charitable organisations, such as the international red cross, which has over a century of experience in organising humanitarian aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs striffler's report because i believe that the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps will contribute to a better, more targeted use of the potential of european volunteers, to improving the efficiency of european humanitarian aid and to promoting european values such as solidarity. this project is a good example of the effort to achieve synergy by combining european funds with the potential of volunteering. i would like to draw attention to the importance of the proper selection of sending organisations as well as the selection and training of candidates for eu aid volunteers. i think it is a good idea to support existing organisations so that they can fully meet the requirements. the emphasis on the good preparation of volunteers, the identification of their legal status and the good preparation of the host organisations will contribute to the safety of volunteers and to the effectiveness of the union's actions. the project also has the added value of increasing the skills and experience of the volunteers, which will certainly contribute to improving their future situation on the labour market.
in writing. - the corps will give europeans the opportunity to show their commitment to solidarity and to act together as eu citizens. by helping people affected by disasters, we can contribute to a more cohesive european society. the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps is intended to add value to existing volunteering programmes by selecting and training volunteers for the humanitarian action concerned. in order to avoid duplication of duties of existing voluntary organisations, the activities of the corps are to be demand-driven and needs-based.
madam president! it is estimated that some 40 million citizens of the european community suffer from extreme exclusion, characterised primarily by lack of access to adequate quantity and quality of food. the food distribution programme for the most deprived distributed around half a million tonnes of food from public intervention resources each year. poland has been participating in the programme since joining the european union and in recent years has been the third country in terms of the size of its budget for aid to the poorest. it was a vital facility for charities. the previous programme proved its worth, and i hope that this one, though not so perfect, will also do its job.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation establishing the fund for european aid to the most deprived because i believe it is well placed to achieve the europe 2020 poverty reduction target of at least 20 million people. i support the establishment of a programme which introduces the possibility of allocating part of the funds to material aid in the form of non-food products and to accompanying measures aimed at the social reintegration of aid beneficiaries. while the european social fund remains the main eu instrument to increase the chances of social inclusion, especially through employment, we must bear in mind that those in need, such as the homeless or the undernourished, are often excluded from it because of their exclusion. the european fund for the most deprived is therefore an important complement to the esf. however, we must not forget that it is not a comprehensive policy strategy to reduce and eradicate poverty - it requires urgent work by the european commission and the member states. i am of the opinion that care should be taken to simplify the system of implementation and clearance of the aid granted as much as possible in order to avoid imposing excessive financial and bureaucratic burdens on the implementing entities. i believe that the system proposed in the regulation is too elaborate both in terms of the allocation of funds and the scope and type of support, and i have therefore tabled the appropriate amendments calling on the commission to simplify it.
in writing. - the battle this parliament has fought over the funds for food aid to the poor of the union has achieved a very good result. the overall ceiling of 3.5 billion over 7 years, which remains unchanged from the previous programming, despite a sharply reduced weekly budget, will ensure food aid and basic necessities for european citizens in difficulty. it is clear that the allocation of these funds is not sufficient to deal with the economic crisis, which is reflected in the growing number of people in need. more needs to be done in the coming years to protect these sections of the population, but today's result is a concrete sign of what europe can do to support its citizens, and in this case the most vulnerable sections.
in writing. - the european fund for the most deprived is a symbol of european solidarity with those most affected by the economic crisis. although the fund's budget has been increased, it is still far from sufficient. in 2010, almost a quarter of europeans (120 million people) were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the fund for european aid to the most deprived is an instrument to alleviate the most acute forms of poverty, namely food and material deprivation, experienced by citizens in all member states. the budget of the fund is reserved for assistance to the most deprived and should not be used for activities of other cohesion funds. the european fund for the most deprived is only a complement to national policies; the responsibility for combating and eradicating poverty should lie with the member states. i have nevertheless supported mr costello's report, which i regard as good and balanced.
in writing. - the report we adopted today has been circulating in the corridors of european administration for too long. it would not be surprising if we were dealing with a complex regulation harmonising another sector of the common market and leading to deeper european integration. but we are dealing with an instrument that is supposed to function in parallel with the single market mechanisms: an instrument of direct support for those who have no chance of fully benefiting from the european economy. the economic crisis, which began six years ago, has brought an incredible impoverishment to hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of europeans, demonstrating the shortcomings of the neoliberal economic doctrine. but let us be clear: the fund for european aid to the most deprived is no panacea for economic crisis, poverty or social exclusion. solving the problems facing europe requires a deep restructuring of the single market and, above all, closer integration. it's going to take a long time. there is no doubt that the poorest europeans are looking to us for solidarity and help right now. without further ado, i call on the european commission and the governments of the member states to mobilise the fund as soon as possible and to distribute its resources fairly among those most in need.
in writing. - after more than a year of negotiations with the eu council, we have today adopted the european fund for aid to the most deprived (fead), which will replace the current food distribution programme from the common agricultural policy stocks and funds. as twice rapporteur for the european parliament on the food distribution programme, i am pleased that despite the resistance of the member states, the current level of aid, i.e. eur 3.5 billion for 7 years, is maintained, which amounts to eur 500 million per year. it is worth recalling that the european commission put forward a figure of eur 2.5 billion in its initial proposal. in 2011, thanks also to my efforts as rapporteur and the polish presidency of the council at the time, we managed to extend the previous food aid programme until the end of 2013, even though some eu countries wanted to end it by then. the continuation of the programme in its new form until at least 2020 is therefore all the more valuable. the adoption of the european fund for the most deprived is particularly important given that, as a result of the crisis, over 120 million people in the eu are already at risk of poverty or social exclusion. however, there is no doubt that the assistance offered by the union is still a proverbial drop in the ocean of needs.
in writing. - i have lent my support to the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the fund for european aid to the most deprived (com(2012)0617 – c7-0358/2012 – 2012/0295(cod)). this report outlines the disparity that has impacted many eu citizens since the economic crisis and takes full account of the necessity for further action to assist those in need. as the report states ‘the proposed eur[nbsp ]2.5 billion fund for the 2014-20 period, would establish a new, broader instrument, partly building upon the experience of the mdp by supporting national schemes that address food deprivation, whilst devoting part of its resources for material assistance in the form of non-food goods for homeless people and/or children, and for accompanying measures aimed at social reintegration of assisted personsʼ. thus, the strategy is not only to provide food and shelter for the most deprived but also to provide training and assistance in the re-entry to working society which will slowly provide the eu with the citizens needed to continue our economic recovery.
in writing. - the european commission has proposed a fund to provide aid to the most deprived people in the eu. the fund would support member states' programmes that provide food for the most deprived and clothing and other basic items for the homeless and for children in need. the proposal will now be submitted to the european parliament and the council of ministers of the european union for approval. the commission provides for a budget of eur 2,5 billion for this fund for the years 2014-2020 as part of its proposal for the multiannual financial framework of june 2011. member states would be responsible for 15% of the costs of their national programmes, with the remaining 85% of the costs being financed by the fund. at european level, we need to introduce new solidarity mechanisms and to mobilise the appropriate resources to provide assistance to the needy and the poor, who in many cases live in a truly alarming social situation. that is the objective of the european fund for aid to the most deprived approved today.
in writing. - fellow workers! for 27 years, the european union has been implementing a programme to help those most in need, those who are socially excluded and living on the so-called social margins. the budget of the proposed programme in the new financial perspective for 2014-2020 is eur 2,5 billion, which as the beneficiary organisations stress is not a satisfactory amount. however, there is no doubt that any aid is valuable and will therefore help to develop further strategies and programmes to combat poverty. i believe that the initiative proposed is necessary, especially in view of the increasing proportion of people living in poverty, especially children and women. that is why i voted for the emer costello report on the european fund for the most deprived.
in writing. - biocidal products are used to kill harmful organisms. they're used every day, in virtually every household. however, due to their specific nature, they can unfortunately pose a risk to humans and the environment and therefore require appropriate certification. the proposed amendments to the regulations governing the marketing of such products are designed to simplify the authorisation process. it remains in two stages, but allows only one application for authorisation to be submitted throughout the community, instead of one in each member state. i hope that this amendment will not reduce the level of protection of consumers, the purchasers of biocidal products, in individual countries.
in writing. - in order to provide the necessary legal clarity and certainty to member states, industry and the public, the commission has intervened on regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. the ep's intervention also led to a substantial revision of existing legislation, through the harmonisation of the rules on their making available on the market and their use. it is also necessary to implement alignment on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures in order to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
in writing. - the existing regulation on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products contained many technical errors. the european commission decided to submit a new proposal to make the necessary corrections. in addition, a small number of additional technical clarifications were introduced by the member states. they concern in particular the consistency of the rules on the classification, labelling and packaging of biocidal substances and mixtures. the biocidal products regulation combines a high level of protection of human health and the environment with clear rules for manufacturers, which are necessary to promote competitiveness and innovation.
in writing. - it is an active substance or a preparation containing at least one active substance in the form in which it is supplied to the user, intended to destroy, deter, render harmless, prevent the action of, or control in any other way harmful organisms by chemical or biological action. by law, only biocidal products for which a marketing authorisation (or provisional authorisation) has been granted or which have been entered in the register of biocidal products posing a low risk may be on the market in the pr. due to their intended use, biocidal products have been divided into 4 categories and groups according to the specific intended use within each category. in order to be legally placed on the market in poland, a biocidal product must be submitted for a licence, provisional licence or registration. such an application shall be submitted by the applicant, either alone or with the assistance of a representative, to the president of the office for the registration of medicinal products, medical devices and biocidal products. the complete registration dossier should contain the data relating to the applicant, the product data, the content of the instructions for use and the product characteristics sheet. in addition, the existence of the active substance in circulation in poland before the entry into force of the biocidal products act should be documented.
in writing. - violence against women affects one in every five european women, one in every three women world-wide. it is the root cause of gender inequality and an obstacle to women’s full participation in social, political and economic life. in addition to the toll on human life and dignity, studies estimate that violence against women costs our society approximately eur 228 billion each year. regardless of these facts and figures, the eu is currently lacking both a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women, and a legislative framework to support member states in the field of prevention. changing this reality, the current legislative report asks to establish a common eu regulation on combating violence against women that takes into consideration prevention and combat measures. more specifically, the report asks for consistent and systematic data collection at the eu level; it urges member state to sign and ratify the istanbul convention on violence against women; and it requests that financial support for equality mechanisms be established within the eu’s budget. these proposals are necessary for ensuring better protection for women and girls against all forms of violence, and, for promoting women’s rights and gender equality. therefore i voted in support this report.
in writing. - any violence should be stigmatized socially and subject to appropriate punishment. children, women and the socially excluded are the most frequent victims of violence. this leads to long-term psychological and physical trauma. victims feel helpless and often, for fear of their abuser, more than half do not seek medical help or report their case to the police. in order to combat violence effectively, a unified system of prevention should be established, as well as the exchange of information and good practices between member states and the collection of reliable and valid data on the various forms of violence. i also believe that we must raise awareness at every step in order to prevent this phenomenon effectively and efficiently, for example by establishing a european year of action to combat violence against women. that is why i voted for the report. thank you, sir.
in writing. - violence against women is a serious problem that european countries have been dealing with for a long time, with varying degrees of success. in recent years, the idea has emerged to standardize the legal aspects of countering and preventing this phenomenon. the issue of combating violence against women was addressed at european level by the member states holding the presidency of the council of the european union. the countries holding the presidency from january 2010 to june 2011, namely spain, belgium and hungary, have made the fight against violence against women a priority of the programme. the belgian presidency in 2010 saw two important meetings on violence against women, namely the women in power summit and the international conference of experts.
in writing. - it seems that delegated acts need to be looked at more closely, and it is also worth considering how to apply them in order not to lose the ep's powers of co-decision and management. the appropriate proportion should be ensured.
madam president! this report draws attention to a number of important issues, such as the need to improve the competitiveness of economies, simplify tax systems and reduce taxes and social security contributions. it also stresses the need to deepen the common market, particularly in the services sector. however, the call for the rapid introduction of a convergence and competitiveness instrument managed under the community method, on the one hand as an integral part of the budget of the european union, and on the other hand going beyond the ceilings set in the multiannual financial framework, may be questionable. the same applies to the need to submit proposals for completing economic and monetary union on the basis of the community method.
in writing. - the greatest challenge facing the european economy today is to sustain the economic recovery. this is the key message of this year's economic growth analysis. the adoption of the new stability pact by the european commission marks the beginning of the fourth european semester of economic policy-making in an environment of renewed growth and gradual adjustment by member states to pre-crisis imbalances.
in writing. - according to the united nations food and agriculture organization (fao), the world's population will increase by at least two billion by 2050. this means a huge increase in the demand for food, and therefore the requirement that the producers, or farmers, provide that food. the challenge facing the agricultural sector is very great, because there is a limited amount of land on earth that can be used to grow crops efficiently. agriculture must therefore be supported by science, and in particular by its branch of plant science. the report places a great deal of emphasis on the protection of biodiversity and the avoidance of interference with genetic material. instead, she suggests focusing on the dissemination of innovative breeding techniques such as 'accelerated cultivation', and promotes a cautious approach to the problem, taking into account both scientific and social factors in the discussions. the preservation of existing regional crop species adapted to the local climate, as well as sustainable methods of increasing yields, are absolute priorities. the use of available technologies, the promotion of research and the promotion of innovation in agriculture is a strategy that the eu should be presenting. long-term food security depends on the proper use of the potential of our agriculture.
in writing. - since 1996 when the first commercial gm crops were grown gm crops have become part of present and future agriculture, and developing countries are currently leading the way in their cultivation. in 2011, these countries adopted gm crops at twice the rate of developed countries. in addition, according to the latest annual report of the international service for the acquisition of agri-biotech applications (isaaa), published on 7 february, about 50 percent of all gm crops are currently grown in developing countries. this shows how the world leaders of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development, which aims to raise the need to build a green economy, as a sustainable development and to eradicate poverty in the world, are looking to the future.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to sincerely thank the six rapporteurs and the committee on transport and tourism for their extensive and intensive work on the fourth railway package. a year ago, the commission put forward the six legislative proposals forming the fourth railway package. the aim is to complete the internal market for rail services and create a true single european rail area. this is the dream, this is the aim and this is the purpose. we must overcome 26, or however many, fragmented railway markets and create a single european railway area. this is european added value if we can do it, and i think we will do it. it may take longer, but it will happen. we hear from both passengers and businesses – industry, shippers, retailers – that to use railways, they need more attractive, efficient, cross-border and customer-oriented services. despite the three previous rail packages, technical rules and procedures are still fragmented and there are still obstacles to market entry. the fourth package takes a consistent approach in addressing these challenges: we must open markets de jure and eliminate regulatory, technical and administrative barriers de facto. we have proposed to make the european railway agency responsible for promoting interoperable technical rules and issuing safety certificates and vehicle authorisations that are valid throughout the eu. this will cut costs by about eur[nbsp ]500 million and reduce today’s lengthy procedures. it will benefit railways, but also the rail manufacturing industry that is so important for europe. for market opening to work, infrastructure managers should be strengthened and their independence guaranteed to ensure fair and non-discriminatory access to the network. clear governance rules, requirements on financial transparency and powerful regulators are essential conditions to make sure that gradual market opening delivers more efficient rail services with better quality and cost. competition is not an end in itself, but it is an important means to achieve better efficiency and quality of service. the commission proposal introduces the principle of mandatory competitive award of public service rail contracts, while preserving the ability of member states to define public service obligations. this is the best way to get the highest value for money out of the huge public sums spent on rail transport in europe today. you now have in front of you the compromises reached by the different rapporteurs. the commission would have been more ambitious in several important areas: tendering procedures for public service contracts in rail have been postponed to 2022, with even longer transitional periods; more possibilities are envisaged for direct award of rail contracts; separation requirements have been significantly softened and delegated to national regulators; the commission’s implementing powers have been significantly reduced. vested interests are at stake here. i am also fully aware that parliament has been under intense pressure from some incumbents who want to protect their historic markets in different ways. however, we should not forget that there are also many other parties with an interest in railways – freight operators, customers, manufacturers, new market entrants and, of course, passengers – who need them to become more efficient. and i strongly believe that more efficient railways also mean more traffic and therefore more jobs and opportunities for rail workers. so i would like to appeal to you to give the railway sector the boost it deserves. this requires important reforms and the political courage to overcome purely national interests. but it will be to the benefit of passengers, rail staff, taxpayers and – since rail is a relatively clean form of transport – ultimately also the environment.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. president kallas was kind enough to start by saying that we are talking about building a single railway market in europe, a single railway area. yes, mr. president kallas, that is correct. but your charge that parliament wants to maintain the traditional route is not accurate. we're interested in a sustainable transport system, which means more rail. that's right, you did. just remember that to have more rail in the transport system, you need to make it more competitive with other carriers, and in its original version the european commission did not focus on inter-branch competition but on intra-branch competition, i.e. within the railway. and that's the first, very important problem. so our amendments are, to a large extent, reshaping the act in the interests of the railways and the people. it is important to us that public funds for railways are actually directed to citizens. what's the big deal? it's simply that people want to and can use rail in a financial sense, not be excluded financially, not be excluded geographically by trends in too liberal slogans, too far-fetched, sometimes artificial, savings to eliminate and limit access to rail services. we also consider the quality of the service, including safety and reliability, to be of particular importance, rather than the cheapest option, as the commission often suggests. we're just interested in the stable interest of the people, the billions of passengers who use the railways, the social aspect, the all-important aspect, of the people. so we don't assume that people are going to lose their jobs when they change operators. and that's where our amendments are going.
mr. chairman, please! i have recently received numerous letters and e-mails from polish railway workers, railway workers, expressing concern about the proposed directive, fearing in particular the loss of their jobs, and pointing out the many risks, even if they are related to railway safety, that the directive may paradoxically cause. the directive we are discussing today raises many questions. the complete opening and liberalisation of the railway market in the union puts those new countries, in particular, which are not yet fully prepared to compete with the richer countries of the european union, in a much worse position. companies, even polish ones, are not sufficiently prepared to survive this market battle with western european rich competition. the provision on the separation of railway operators from railway undertakings is particularly dangerous for polish railway undertakings. it is a non-functional provision, economically inefficient in terms of the conditions of my country and as a consequence it may lead to mass redundancies and worsen the situation of employees in transport companies. further privatisation and fragmentation of the market will not have a positive impact on the quality and safety of the services offered. much more important could be prudent and sensible investment in infrastructure, but here the european commission has not been able to allocate more funds to the construction of connections, for example in central and eastern europe. the eu officials are not interested in the workplace, they are not interested in the conditions and specificities of individual countries, which are also different in the market context. they are guided by neoliberal dogma and an artificial desire to unify everything, which can lead many small, well-functioning market companies to failure. that is why, in the face of many doubts, i am opposed to this directive and i am against it. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. there is a lot of bitter truth in your question, but that truth speaks rather badly of the current polish government, which is not able to deal with the proper and accurate use of european funds to improve the railway infrastructure than with the more general issue related to the directive we are discussing here. i believe that one of the reasons for the poor and inefficient functioning of the polish railways is its excessive fragmentation into numerous companies, which occurred, among other things, as a result of the recommendations of the european union, because it used to work better as a single polish state-owned enterprise. and in france, for example, the railways are a state-owned company that does better than the british railways, which have been privatised.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the very good cooperation they have had on the fourth railway package and for including a number of compromises which, if properly applied, will contribute to a safer and more efficient railway market. the three previous railway packages were aimed at opening up rail freight and increasing the competitiveness and interoperability of rail at union level. however, despite these changes, the share of rail transport in intra-eu transport remains modest. the iv railway package indicates that the main barriers to the development of european railway competitiveness are access to the rail passenger market to increase the quantity and quality of rail passenger services and the principles of operation of infrastructure managers to ensure equal access to rail infrastructure. it is worth remembering that the market will not be ready to open up to full competition in the next 10, 15 years. it is therefore essential to maintain a stable legal framework, which has been delayed for some time, as the european parliament is proposing here today. at the same time, i would draw your attention to the opinion of the economic and social committee, which in its assessment of the impact of the railway package called for member states to retain the possibility of organising their own national railway systems and opening up the national market to competition in accordance with their economic, geographical, demographic and historical situation and their economic, social and environmental conditions. i therefore ask that all political groups support the 87th amendment, which is based on the criterion of regionality and short railway networks, which are not relevant to the functioning of the european railway market, in the vote tomorrow.
mr. chairman, please! the availability of fast and safe transport is undoubtedly one of the fundamental requirements of our time, and therefore there is no great doubt about the general direction of the changes proposed by the commission and the assumption that in the future the railway sector will be strongly expanded in terms of passenger and freight transport. however, in order to achieve this effect, the rules governing rail transport in the different member states must be harmonised and the different rail transport service providers should base their activities on the same rules. this will increase the competitiveness of rail transport and integrate it into the modal european transport network. in debating the future of rail in europe, we cannot forget the development of high-speed rail. it can significantly improve the quality of european cross-border connections. this effect will be possible to achieve in particular in those countries where it is only being designed. the high-speed lines of the ten-t network will improve the functioning of the european rail transport system. i am thinking here of the high-speed railway line being designed by poland, the construction of which will affect the quality of the whole rail transport system in many regions of this part of europe and beyond. when considering the european commission's proposal for the creation of a single european railway area, attention must be paid to the situation of non-standard managers, for example because of the width of the tracks, the railway infrastructure. they have small sections of railway lines in relation to the overall size of the railway infrastructure in the country. unconditional inclusion of these companies in the regulations proposed by the commission could lead to their economic collapse. they will not be able to bear the significant financial burden of adapting their infrastructure to the technical conditions of the other lines. so, like my predecessor, i appeal to you to support amendment 87.
in writing. with the adoption of the so-called fourth railway package, comprising as many as six legislative acts, including the single european railway area, national rail passenger services, interoperability of the rail system, railway safety, european union railway agency and standardisation of railway company accounting, i look forward to further harmonisation of the rules across the european union, improvement of the quality of the services provided and a reduction in administrative costs within the rail sector. in analysing the legislative package under discussion, the estimates of the increase in the number of jobs or the expected fall in the price of services in the railway sector due to increased competition were not unimportant for my vote. the vote on these matters was also important to me in the context of the long-running negotiations on the exclusion from the directive of undertakings operating on lines of less than 500 km. i welcome its outcome, which reflects an understanding of the need to ensure the right conditions for highly profitable businesses providing employment in regions with high unemployment.
in writing. by voting on the so-called fourth railway package, we are seeking to improve the situation of the railway sector across europe. we want to improve the competitiveness of railways in the member states, make it easier for new entrants to use the infrastructure and improve the quality of service. the rules that have been in place for many years, contained in previous railway packages, are designed to create a single railway market across the eu. this is to be achieved by liberalising the sector and allowing new operators to enter the market. a railway infrastructure authorisation is required. the proposed provisions concern, inter alia, the strengthening of the border between infrastructure managers and carriers (the so-called chinese wall), which is already implemented to some extent in some countries but may restrict the opening of the market to foreign carriers in others. the reasonable approach is to maintain existing public services, especially those which are not necessarily economically viable but which are often necessary for local residents. excessive liberalisation must not be allowed to result in the closure of all low-income lines and investment in only profitable services. in order to take account of their specificity, small railway structures (such as the pkp lhs) which are not of strategic importance in the european context should be excluded from the list. the aim of simplifying administrative procedures, such as those related to the certification of vehicles and personnel, is naturally a good idea, relieving the burden on service providers and concentrating responsibility on the european railway agency.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no doubt that aviation will be the fastest growing of the various modes of transport in europe. we must do everything we can to prevent the number of accidents from increasing at the same rate as civil aviation. i think that the most important thing here is, of course, to react by rapidly exchanging information, rapidly analysing events and communicating conclusions to manufacturers and carriers. the proposed regulation very rightly calls for the development of the central database of the european aviation safety agency. however, the agency must have sufficient resources to carry out additional tasks. i don't think he's got the strength for it today. the commission has therefore decided to increase the appropriations and the number of staff.
mr. chairman, forecasts are for a significant increase in air traffic in the coming years. the safety of passengers is a top priority in the aviation sector and the collection and analysis of data on potential hazards (not just accidents) is essential for their prevention. in this respect, a uniform interpretation of the rules and reporting mechanisms common to all countries will make them more transparent and precise. i hope that the increased powers of the european aviation safety agency will lead to better coordination and improve the quality of data and information available. i also look forward to fruitful cooperation with similar institutions in third countries.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about traffic accidents here, people's lives. saving lives and health with ecall is indeed a matter of urgency. we have been working very fast on this regulation and on this decision on ecall, but as far as i know the council has not been able to keep up and we will have to wait until the end of the year at the latest for these rules to be adopted, and october 2015 as the date when ecall would actually start to work seems to me to be very optimistic in this respect. however, olgo sehnalová, i'm keeping my fingers crossed that you'll be able to reach an agreement with the council as soon as possible. this is a really important topic. but it is important that good solutions start working as soon as possible, and we must do all we can to make this happen. but in that effort, there's also good information about the system, how it's going to work. we've heard a lot of concerns in this room. so we need to inform the public that the ecall system will not be a threat to our privacy, because it will be dormant all the time, it will not be tracking us; that it will be possible to turn it on manually if for some reason the pillow does not explode, because for example there will be no impact, but another threat; that it will be possible to install it in used cars, which are also on our roads, and that it has nothing to do with helpfulness, which our liberal colleague has repeatedly said is wrong. this ecall service should necessarily be preceded by an education campaign run by both the european commission and the member states and regional authorities. i hope it happens as soon as possible. we must also make every effort to ensure that the number 112 functions properly. so far, the 112 and its functioning leave much to be desired. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. rubiks is our expert on all matters relating to telephone and data communications. of course, life and health come first, and so should relationships. thank you very much for this important question.
mr. chairman, please! for passengers and drivers, the name ecall should become synonymous with increased safety in the car. the ecall system can save lives and parliament has long called for its full implementation. thousands of people die in accidents, and more than 1.5 million were injured in 2012 alone. the system will alert the relevant services even if the driver is unconscious or seriously injured and cannot call for help on his own. the system will improve the efficiency of the emergency services by reducing their response time by up to 40% and in some cases by 50%. that is why it is so important that the system is accessible to all drivers. it is also important to note that the system has development potential for companies, as they will have the opportunity to provide the technology, parts and services needed for the operation of the ecall system. maintaining competitiveness and thus ensuring consumer choice is a very important issue from the internal market point of view. it's about the openness of the system. while it should obviously be used primarily to improve road safety, it cannot be excluded that its potential could be extended to other applications. in this respect, the european commission should examine what additional services could be included in the system as part of it and which would provide added value for passengers and drivers. the introduction of the system in all vehicles in the european union should significantly increase road safety and the october 2015 deadline for the implementation of the system should therefore be respected. the member states also have an important role to play in this area and should be more active and ambitious in their approach.
mr president, i am very happy to see that the ecall system is gaining traction in the european parliament. the eu-wide introduction of ecall, while beneficial to all citizens of the european union, is a particularly positive development as far as my home country of poland is concerned. according to research done by the polish supreme audit office there are many issues with the 112 number in poland. the main discontent is with call centres’ inability to dispatch emergency services by themselves. at the moment, their only function is forwarding information to relevant organisations. another important question is the lag in the implementation of a tracking system which would enable dispatchers to immediately determine a caller’s location. there are also bureaucratic obstacles, such as the need to fill out multiple versions of the same forms by the 112 dispatchers, emergency service dispatchers and, finally, the emergency responders. i sincerely hope that implementing ecall will help. the european union has a unique ability to pressure national governments to speed up their internal processes. i hope this will be the case in this matter. poland, which has one of the highest traffic accident death rates in europe, only stands to benefit from both ecall and resulting improvements to the 112 system. i fully support the idea and wish for its speedy implementation.
mr. chairman, please! the full implementation and efficient operation of the ecall mechanism will significantly mitigate the consequences of accidents. the commission's data show that this service will reduce the response time of the emergency services by up to 50%, which significantly increases the chances of victims in the event of a life-threatening event. the introduction of this alarm device into general use therefore takes into account a very important social interest. at the same time, i would like to call for more action to ensure the full roll-out of the 112 service. at present, there is still insufficient awareness of its functioning and the mechanism itself does not always work efficiently. a wide-ranging information campaign combined with a series of actions to improve the use of this tool would certainly be desirable.
in writing. – an in-vehicle ecall system is a service triggered either automatically or manually in the case of a car crash. it establishes a link to the emergency call centre and can speed up emergency response time by 40% to 50% of cases. according to estimates, it could save up to 2[nbsp ]500 lives a year. regardless the benefits of this service, currently only about 0.7% of vehicles in the eu are equipped with private ecall systems. the current report supports the deployment of the interoperable eu-wide ecall throughout the eu by october, 2015. it further backs the european commission’s proposal to ensure member states upgrade their infrastructure so that ecalls are efficiently passed on to emergency services. additionally, while taking into consideration the widespread deployment of gnss location technologies, the report emphasises the need to ensure ‘normal’ 112 calls are appropriately treated, next to ecalls. this will allow all citizens to benefit from the service, not only those who are equipped with ecall-enabled vehicles. considering that in 2012 alone, about 1.1m traffic accidents were registered on eu roads resulting in 28[nbsp ]000 deaths and more than 1.5m injuries, the current report is essential for increasing road safety standards across the eu.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the implementation of the ecall system across europe is an important step towards improving road safety. eu citizens can be sure that this system will significantly reduce the time taken by emergency services to respond to road accidents. the ecall system will be mandatory in new vehicles from 2015. e-call will be available to all citizens in europe as a pan-european service. the ecall system will be available free of charge to all car users on the basis of the 112 emergency telephone number. the report adopted in tomorrow's vote will ensure that cars equipped with ecall will not be able to be tracked continuously. the data sent from the system to the emergency centre will be limited to, among other things, the type of vehicle, the type of fuel, the time of the incident, the exact location of the car, the direction of travel and the number of passengers. i would like to thank the european commission very much for the initiative and encourage member states, telecommunications operators and vehicle manufacturers to get involved in the process of implementing the pan-european ecall system.
madam president! we should all thank our colleague françoise for putting a lot of heart and energy into this document. ladies and gentlemen, we are all concerned by this third health programme of the union for all citizens, either directly or indirectly through problems in families or older family members. the budget may not be big, but it's one that we can say we're going to be able to do for innovation, that we can say we're going to do for the health of our society, for the stability of health care in our countries. so he's very important. in addition, it may be complemented by the structural funds and the funds under the research and innovation framework programme. so he's not so lonely anymore. of course, the emphasis is on those diseases that are associated with old age, because, ladies and gentlemen, let's not kid ourselves, we as europe are getting older, we have an ageing population, and we are affected by diseases of old age, such as alzheimer's disease and dementia, among others. and that's something we have to pay attention to. training the right people is also important. the staff who both care for the elderly and provide rehabilitation and who work to improve the health of the elderly. we also need to recognize the importance of geriatric care. even more important than that is education, education from the earliest years, so that we have healthy lifestyles, that we have proper nutrition, that there are no diseases that are not caused by the aging process of society, but by a bad lifestyle. so we have to pay attention to that and not spare money to educate from the earliest years.
madam president! broadband internet is conducive to both economic development and innovation. it is crucial for job creation. however, the current network coverage does not meet the needs of the majority of citizens. the number of broadband connections in my country, poland, remains well below the eu average. only 4% of all links have a bandwidth of more than 30 megabits. the result is limited access to e-services and no potential jobs. in the context of the digital market, i would like to draw attention to the need to improve access to the network for rural residents. i hope that the objectives of developing the internet with a capacity of more than 100 megabits will be achieved. i welcome the effects of the trilateral agreement on increasing funding for key projects.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the number of internet sites is growing rapidly, and they are increasingly used to provide information or services. the same applies to public and private sector entities. the public sector already has hundreds of thousands of websites, but less than 10% of websites in the eu meet the standards for web accessibility. this area is home to thousands of businesses, generating jobs and a turnover of €144 billion. network accessibility can contribute to the further development of the single market and to ensuring universal access to services for all union citizens. the accessibility of the network is of great economic importance and has a significant potential for economic growth and social inclusion. this is about the use of websites by all citizens, including people with disabilities. therefore, all public sector bodies should apply the principle of network availability. one of the more important aspects is to identify the types of public sector bodies' websites that are relevant to citizens' participation in economic and social life. the accessibility of the network will reduce the administrative costs for municipalities, but of course the current financial situation of these smallest public entities must also be taken into account so that the directive does not become a burden that they cannot bear. there is also the question of defining public tasks, because the annex lists, for example, banking services or cultural activities and tourist information as tasks within the competence of public entities, so it is a question of the scope of these tasks. member states have already implemented legislation in this area, but barriers still exist due to differences in national approaches, and full harmonisation is therefore necessary. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very good work.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. websites are already a basic source of information in a variety of fields. this is facilitated by the ease and comfort of using this form of knowledge acquisition and the possibility of including extensive and comprehensive material. the same is true for the public sector, whose share is steadily increasing. unfortunately, only a small number of sites are still published according to the standards of information availability on the web. it is important that websites of entities providing basic services to citizens, for example in the areas of administration, healthcare or education, are accessible to all, regardless of age or degree of disability. the most serious problem remains the barriers arising from differences in national legislation. the unification of rules seems necessary, for example, because information from national institutions is also processed by foreigners. i believe that a harmonised approach to these issues is necessary, also in order to complete the construction of the single european market. i would also like to draw attention to the increasing share of access to information via a variety of mobile devices. adequate applications for public institutions should also take into account the basic guidelines for traditional websites.
madam president! to say that the internet has become an important part of life is a cliché today. the lack of ability or ability to use the internet is a huge barrier to normal, comfortable functioning in society in the 21st century. the digital exclusion, namely the lack of such competences, leads to further difficulties. a person who is unable to use the internet effectively has limited access to world news, public information or contact with loved ones. older people are one of the groups particularly at risk of this type of exclusion. it is not just pragmatic issues that are at stake. the fight against discrimination and exclusion is one of our most precious values, not only enshrined in our constitutions and treaties, but also important to me personally. adapting public sector websites to the needs of older people is more than just making their daily lives easier. it's also a strong voice for equality. i am strongly against digital exclusion and i fully support the directive we are voting on. i regret all the more that the drawn-out work of the european council prevents it from being adopted in the current term. the draft directive states that the european parliament and its institutions should set an example. let's keep that in mind as we apply the standards of available information to the upcoming election campaign.
in writing. it is estimated that around 15% of the european population, or 80 million europeans, are people with various types of disability. and we've also been dealing with an aging population for some time now. in poland, as many as 10 million citizens over the age of 50 are digitally excluded. it is therefore necessary to provide opportunities for such a large group to participate in public life. 'accessibility' has become a key condition for the participation of older people and people with disabilities in public and social life, and their full inclusion is impossible without adapting the websites of public offices to their needs. the directive will make it easier for disabled and older people to use public online services, for example when filing tax returns, applying for a passport, applying for a university degree or looking for a job. the directive will make it easier for blind people to hear the descriptions of images, for deaf people to see the descriptions of sound files and for visually impaired people to use magnifying software. in poland, only about 10% of public administration websites are minimally adapted to the needs of disabled and elderly people. it is therefore very important that these rules are quickly implemented in the member states. it's also important to do it smartly. we need to ensure that public administrations are properly implementing and operating these solutions.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on legal affairs by klaus-heiner lehne and luigi berlinguer on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common european rules on sales (com ((2011) [nbsp ]0635 - c7-0329/2011 - 2011/0284 (cod)) (a7-0301/2013).
the deputy rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i am the first to speak today, not because i am the rapporteur, but on behalf of my colleague and friend klaus-heiner lehne, who unfortunately cannot be here today for personal reasons. in the course of the many meetings and debates we have had in the european parliament on the establishment of a new mechanism for the legal regime for crossborder sales contracts, we have come to the conclusion that this instrument is absolutely essential for the common single market. it is intended to be an impetus for change on the community market. we are aware that there are people and companies who oppose this proposal or this solution, but the arguments in favour of it are clear. the work of the legal affairs committee, which has been ongoing since 2011, has generated a lot of excitement among both consumers and business representatives. it is understandable that every new instrument raises certain concerns, and i would like to dispel some of them on behalf of both mr lehne and myself. first, the new legal regime proposed by the rapporteurs concerns crossborder distance contracts. this slightly narrower scope of the regulation is primarily intended to provide an opportunity to overcome barriers to online shopping. secondly, it is to be an optional instrument, which means that both the consumer and the trader can choose whether they want to use this instrument on the basis of the community rules we are proposing or whether they prefer to stick to the solutions that apply in national systems. it should be made clear that the european sales law does not replace national law, but is merely an optional, additional version that can be chosen and that both parties to the transaction should agree to. if, on the other hand, one of the parties does not wish to agree to such a formula, the contract shall not take effect. the second issue, which is perhaps the most emotional, is the level of consumer protection proposed by the single european sales agreement. first of all, the consumer's consent to the conclusion of the contract cannot be presumed. it must be factual and clearly stated. before the final conclusion of the contract, consumers will be required to be informed of their rights under the single european sales agreement, but this information will also cover the consequences of concluding the contract on community terms. and that's the difference with the current rules in the individual member states. in fact, only five countries in the european union have such a level of information. of course, opponents of this optional solution will point out that full harmonisation of the rules or a change of the document from a regulation to a directive would yield better results. i do not agree with this approach and i believe that at the stage we are at today, only the adoption of this document which is being proposed today can make it possible to take a step forward to change the situation on the community market, to develop trade by enabling the development of trade on the net. the instrument we are proposing to you today is the best solution. i remember the enthusiasm of commissioner viviane reding at the first ministerial meeting when we discussed this issue in sopot, poland, in 2011, and the enthusiasm with which most ministers approached this option, and i am pleased that today we can finalise this very project that we started in 2011.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the common european sales rules aim to create uniform standards governing the union's internal market and to address the problems caused by the divergences between national contract law rules. this will create a new online marketing tool that also provides greater protection for consumers shopping online. i support the idea of making this instrument optional, and only covering those companies and consumers who see real benefits. the legislation proposed in this report will only apply to businesses that carry out cross-border transactions, especially online, by proposing uniform rules, reducing costs and facilitating compliance checks. i agree with the rapporteurs that this ground-breaking initiative will significantly facilitate the development of cross-border trade, improving the situation of consumers and businesses operating in the new digital trading environment. moreover, by reducing unnecessary regulatory burdens, european legislation will become an effective tool in achieving a well-functioning internal market. i congratulate both rapporteurs on their ambitious report.
the deputy rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to thank the commissioner very warmly for having understood this idea, which has been the rapporteur's and the european parliament's concern. to make a step forward sometimes means taking a step back from some proposals, which does not mean, commissioner, that we will not come back to your proposal in the future to extend these new solutions even further. i hope that mr fox is satisfied with the explanations that the commissioner has given. there is no contradiction between strengthening the position of small and mediumsized enterprises through this optional form of the european sales law and protecting consumer rights more than in many cases exists today in the member states. imagine, mr fox, that today the buyer - the customer - very often has no choice about what form of compensation to take for a defective service or for a defective product. in this optional formula which we are proposing today and which i hope the european parliament will adopt by a large majority, such a possibility exists. i could give many more examples to show that this optional solution is a step forward, and i can even imagine that in the future this optional solution will override the national law based contract. i would ask everyone to support this report so that the european parliament can once again sign up to this formula of helping small and mediumsized enterprises and all european consumers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the implementation of the youth guarantee (2014/2566 (rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on 22 april last year, eu ministers adopted the council recommendations on the implementation of the youth guarantee. this was undoubtedly a first and very important step towards halting the rise in youth unemployment and the active involvement of the unemployed youth, which is to eventually result in permanent employment. the resources under the employment initiative that could be spent as early as 1 september last year, indicating only the largest beneficiaries, amount to over €880 million for spain, over €530 million for italy, almost €290 million for france, over €235 million for poland and over €160 million for greece. the most urgent needs to be financed by these appropriations are reforms aimed at modernising employment systems and social and educational services for young people. another area requiring structural reform is the vocational education and training system. member states must ensure that young people have the opportunity to acquire the skills that employers are looking for. this requires the involvement of a wide range of actors, such as employers' organisations, educational institutions and public authorities. they have an important role to play. in my report on youth unemployment, i also referred to these actions and to cooperation at european level. we expect the european commission to work closely with the member states in implementing the youth guarantee and to extend it to people up to the age of 30. let us remember that entrepreneurs also create jobs. the guarantees are one of the instruments to help young people, but we in the european parliament must also look at how to create new jobs and how to help entrepreneurs in this particular area.
mr. chairman, please! the adoption by the council of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative confirms the union's priority to address youth unemployment. however, it is worrying that, as labour market experts point out, data from individual member states on youth unemployment rates are completely uncomparable and very often obscure the picture. it is high time that eurostat developed appropriate research tools to compare the scale of this phenomenon, as effective action cannot be taken without knowing the actual level of youth unemployment in individual member states or regions. the commission rightly believes that the scale of the phenomenon is so alarming that the necessary initiatives must be implemented as soon as possible and the available funds spent by the end of next year. but it is clear that the inertia of some governments may be a hindrance. i therefore have a question, to repeat sari essayah's question to the commissioner: have all the countries made the necessary funds available to carry out the tasks set out in the programmes?
mr. chairman, please! the commission and the council have shown great courage in this guarantee. it scares the hell out of me. let me put it this way, unemployment for a person who has completed education is a frustration that sometimes leaves a mark for life, because why study? and we all pay for it. there are two types of job offers: one is the skills of the candidate who wants to work and the other is the skills of the employer who needs the workforce. in the first case, i believe that practical training should be developed at different levels in addition to basic education. in poland, we go back to the so-called basic vocational schools, where you learn a profession. i think that's a very good idea. in the second case, i think the commission can do something, either by reducing the employer's employment costs or by changing the regulations. a grant to reduce the cost of a first job is a good option, and it is only in the workplace that a young candidate can prove his usefulness. that's why this first job is so important. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
in writing. the creation of the youth guarantee, funded by the youth employment initiative and the increased budget of the european social fund, is a significant achievement of the european parliament, and in particular of the socialist and democrats group. we have managed to allocate as much as €6 billion to achieve the ambitious target of enabling employment services in the member states to offer young graduates a job, vocational training or further education within 4 months of applying for the aid. here in parliament, we have not ignored the voice of young people, but on the contrary, we have faced the pressing challenge of rising youth unemployment. i cannot therefore ignore the fact that so far only a few member states have submitted plans for spending money from the programme. i am particularly sorry that in my country, poland, the implementation of the youth guarantee has been blocked at the level of legislative action in the sejm. i agree with the assessment that the implementation of the programme's activities requires a fundamental overhaul of the system of employment placement and vocational guidance. but this reform has been on the table for a long time and the government has had time to work on it. the european union has decided to give poland as much as pln 2 billion to secure the entry of young people into the labour market. 400,000 young people waiting for employment. i expect the youth guarantee to be activated in poland without further delay.
in writing. more than one fifth of young people in the labour market are unemployed, and 7.5 million young people aged 15-24 are neets who are not in education, training or employment. high youth unemployment has a negative impact on the economy, on society and, above all, on young people themselves, as they feel unnecessary. the total cost of creating the eu youth guarantee scheme is estimated at eur 21 billion per year. the eu budget is to provide €6 billion for this initiative. this means that the member states' contribution must be more than 70%. member states must submit plans to allow the initiative to be fully implemented. only then can we expect the expected results in terms of real increase in youth employment. in poland, the youth unemployment rate is almost 30%. creating jobs for young people is a key challenge for poland today. my political group, the s&ds, has drawn up a plan to 'heal' the european labour market through integrated public and private sector investment. the benefits of the dual vocational education system, in which students simultaneously attend school and undergo practical training, allowing them to gain work experience during their studies, are also important. this system guarantees low youth unemployment in germany, austria and switzerland.
president of the czech republic. - mr[nbsp ] president, every politician who speaks in the european parliament expresses, tacitly or openly, his european dream, so let me follow that good tradition. first however, i want to tell you what my european dream is not. i am inspired here by a well-known polish philosopher, leszek kolakowski, who gave a lecture, i guess in 1957, under the title ‘what is socialism?’ and started by saying, ‘comrades, i was asked to tell what socialism is. very well, but first i will tell you what socialism is not. socialism, comrades, is not the murder of political opponents, socialism is not concentration camps, socialism is not political prisoners, socialism is not censorship ...’ and he continued in that vein for more than half an hour. i can tell you in just five minutes what my european dream is not. i should add first though that, at the end of his lecture, kolakowski said, ‘now, comrades, i will tell you what socialism is: socialism, comrades, is a good thing.’ and that was all. so now, in five minutes, i will tell you what my european dream is not. my european dream does not include the crazy movement of the european parliament from strasbourg to brussels and back. (applause)my european dream does not include a nonsensical directive about, for example, economy safety light bulbs. i have one of these in my cottage and it makes it look like a cemetery or a mortuary, so i speak from experience. my european dream does not include the so-called european architecture of brussels, some of which looks like an oversize wood box. nor does my european dream include the steak i encountered recently at the european commission, which looked and tasted like bubblegum – to take another example from my own experience. now i shall tell you what my european dream is, and i shall start by quoting another philosopher – czech this time – václav bělohradský, who said that european citizenship was a ‘cultural choice’. i agree with him. we were all born somewhere, and that is not to our credit, but the cultural choice for european citizenship is a choice made of our own free will and is valid and useful, particularly in a complicated situation such as we have today. let us define what it means. culture, firstly, is more than cold economic calculation, comparing losses and benefits. culture is a set of common rules of behaviour, and what we need in an integration process is to start with common rules – or equal rules, if you wish, which are not the same as equal levels. what is the difference? the common rule is, for instance, the relationship between the minimum wage and the average wage, but the levels of those wages depend on labour productivity. levels cannot be regulated by common principles. however, we need common rules in many areas of european policy. let us start with foreign policy. henry kissinger’s ironic question ‘who do i call if i want to speak to europe?’ is still valid. there is still no common foreign policy in the european union. as for so-called soft policy, i must say critically that it sometimes feels like a repetition of the appeasement of the 1930s. but in order to have something more than soft policy, we need a common defence policy. we have 28 armies which are not fully compatible, whereas a common european army – and this is a long-term dream – would be cheaper and more effective. we need a common fiscal policy and the harmonisation of taxation. i am very happy to tell you that the czech republic has adopted the fiscal pact, and i am a strong supporter of a move towards the euro as soon as possible. those who criticise the euro suffer from what i would call a fear of the unknown. i think the euro has been a stabilising factor for economic development. more than that, however, we need common rules in the field of social policy, starting with the european social charter. we need common rules on environmental policy and, at the end of the day, we need the courage for big projects like the trans-european networks, including railways, highways, water corridors and so on, even if such long-term projects lie beyond the horizon of political thinking, which is usually only four years ahead. let me conclude with a protest. i wonder whether mr[nbsp ]cohn-bendit is here. unfortunately not, it seems. he issued the declaration: ‘young europeans, unite!’ and i want to protest at that because i am an old european and i understand his declaration as a form of age discrimination, which is strictly against the principles of the european union. more than that, what does ‘unite’ mean? if it means ‘integrate with common rules’, i fully agree. if it means ‘unify’, i am strictly against it because to be uniform is to be grey and boring. i am against common european cheese and common european beer – i might recommend czech beer, which is the best in the world – but what we need is integration and a european federation, not a european unitary state. finally, allow me to paraphrase leszek kolakowski: ‘deep in my heart, i do believe that the european union is a good thing.’ thank you very much for your attention. (loud applause)
mr president, the phrase is: ‘the public transport plan in the most cost-effective manner’. the proposal is to delete the words ‘the most’, so that it reads as follows: ‘the public transport plan in a cost-effective manner’. it makes the situation much clearer.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with the idea of increasing the role of the single market in the european semester, particularly in areas which can significantly improve the competitiveness of european economies, such as energy and transport. i am in favour of promoting more effectively the tools that make the community market work properly, such as the imi information exchange system, solvit and the your europe advice system. the report also draws attention to the national action plans for the implementation of the single market. these instruments provide useful information for the european semester.
in writing. - the single market is a great success of integration in the european union. it offers enormous opportunities for citizens, consumers and businesses and is a driver of economic growth. for its full functionality, its full potential must be exploited. better governance of the single market is one of the tasks to be fulfilled. we need concrete results, and the key here is better implementation and enforcement of the rules already in place. the effective management of the single market will play an important role in this area. this requires monitoring of the performance of member states, feedback on concrete achievements and best practices from different member states, as well as identified concerns of citizens and businesses. the use of the european semester, one of whose pillars should be the management of the single market, is an important aspect. last year's annual growth analysis already included an annual report on the state of integration of the single market, an important step towards building such a pillar. it is also important how we use the single market tools, such as solvit, the your europe portal, the single points of contact established in accordance with the requirements of the services directive, or the internal market information exchange system. these are the mechanisms and instruments that can make the internal market work better, which is why their proper functioning is so important.
in writing. - the single european act gave the european union's internal market a community dimension, which was further strengthened by the maastricht treaty of 1992 and the amsterdam treaty of 1997. the vast majority of decisions taken by the eu council on internal market issues are taken by qualified majority. derogations from this rule concern in particular tax policy, the movement of persons and the interests and rights of workers. the idea of a single market without internal national borders is based on a high level of mutual trust and on the equivalence of regulatory systems. any significant failure to apply the common rules in any part of the single market puts the rest of the system at risk and undermines its integrity. the european commission is therefore obliged to keep a close eye on compliance by all market participants and has been given the means to enforce the rules against member state governments that do not show the necessary level of discipline. the european court of justice is the final instance in this respect.
in writing. - the european commission's progress reports on eu cohesion policy describe the extent to which the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy have been achieved. unfortunately, the seventh and eighth progress reports show little progress towards economic growth that can be characterised as smart, sustainable and inclusive. the main obstacles to achieving adequate development were identified in the reports as the large disparities that still exist between eu regions, as well as the economic crisis, which since 2008 has greatly slowed down economic growth, contributing to higher unemployment rates and, as a result, increasing levels of poverty and social exclusion in many member states. the strategic report on programme implementation for 2007-13 shows the benefits of the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european regional development fund, while also highlighting problems and delays in areas such as research and innovation. the european commission needs to use the information from these reports to step up its efforts to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. to help our regions, we need to enable them to use the funds available under cohesion policy effectively and to increase support for investments that lead to both direct and indirect job creation.
in writing. - for poland, cohesion policy will continue to be the main source of public funding in 2014-2020 in areas such as employment (especially youth employment), labour mobility, education and training, smes, research, technological development and innovation, ict, sustainable transport, energy, environment, urban and big city development, among others. cohesion policy also plays a key role in enhancing the competitiveness of the european union by focusing on policy areas that ensure sustainable, good quality employment and social inclusion, which is particularly important in the face of the economic crisis. cohesion policy, by implementing integrated regional and urban programmes in cooperation with regional and local authorities, economic operators, social partners and civil society, is also the most important instrument for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. this is why it is so important to strive to improve the transparency of reporting, the quality of programming and implementation, and the consistency of priorities with national, regional and local specificities and needs.
in writing. - the work carried out by local authorities and ngos is an invaluable tool in the implementation of not only the europe 2020 strategy, but also many other objectives of building a common, solidary but dynamically developing europe. the report shows that not all countries or regions are doing equally well in implementing cohesion policy programmes. some are struggling, especially with the latest technology, internet access, and transportation infrastructure. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of regional authorities is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to support the report, particularly in the area of job creation policy. after such a great crisis, the most important thing is to try to rebuild the economy and help society to recover from this sad experience. programmes that support primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, the main drivers of services and industry are therefore important and will have a positive impact on economic recovery.
in writing. - cohesion policy is a strategic policy, essential to bridging the gap between the more and less developed regions of the union as a whole. cohesion policy programmes will have to select investment priorities, taking into account the starting point of a region or city, in relation to the national 2020 objectives, identifying which activities to promote and which to combat. future cohesion programmes will therefore have to place particular emphasis on incentives, growth and investment in job creation for a stable recovery and to reduce unemployment, especially among young people.
in writing. - this report assesses how, in the context of cohesion policy, regions and cities can contribute to the three types of growth envisaged by the europe 2020 strategy. the european parliament report states that cohesion policy programmes should choose their investment priorities taking into account the starting position of the region or city in relation to the national 2020 targets. cohesion policy programmes are an opportunity to create a comprehensive development strategy that is targeted to specific needs and reflects the trade-offs and interdependencies between different types of investment, which translates into more efficient use of resources and faster development of regions and cities.
in writing. - the union's territories, thousands of kilometres from the continent, are in a difficult situation. this makes integration with the community and contact with the country to which the territory belongs difficult. supporting these areas is not only our duty, but also a long-term investment. the eu institutions are now ignoring these territories, repeatedly not including them on maps of the union. the community is based on solidarity and helping the weak. i would like to draw particular attention to the difficult situation of agriculture in the outermost regions. i mean the structure of the farms and the limited market. to support development, domestic production should be encouraged by replacing imports. we need to tap into the potential of both the exotic and the original culture that exists there, offering unique goods. it is also necessary to protect them by keeping in mind protected and reserved designations of origin and local indications. of course, it's not just agriculture and food that are the locomotives for the most remote areas. coordinated action based on eu strategies is needed to ensure that these regions develop properly. the sources of potential are endless, and with a report like this, we can do a lot of good for those areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the employment policies of the member states. one of the objectives of the european union, as set out in article 145 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is to pursue a uniform employment strategy in all member states, with a view to continuously improving the skills of citizens. this is particularly important in the face of the enormous challenges facing europe today. i am thinking in particular of the deepening demographic and economic problems, which have as a direct consequence high levels of unemployment, especially among young people, as well as the growing problem of poverty and social exclusion. in response to these challenges, the european union adopted in 2010 a new 'europe 2020' strategy for sustainable development and employment, which supports actions to boost growth and create jobs. i believe that only joint and integrated action by all member states, which actively implement and promote the guidelines for european employment policy, can prevent the economic and social problems that are increasing in europe.
in writing. - the biggest problem facing europe today is not the economic crisis. and it's not climate change, and it's not poor competitiveness in global trade. the biggest challenge we face today is demographic change and youth unemployment in europe. across europe, we have a negative trend in natural growth and population ageing, which is particularly evident among the new member states. this is due to low birth rates and the emigration of the younger generation. we have very good education systems, more and more people are getting higher education, and yet the unemployment rate among graduates is very high. this is partly the result of educational profiles that are not adapted to the needs of the market: most young europeans have a humanities education, while there is a shortage of science professionals on the labour market. creating jobs for young people is an absolute priority. the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states established by council decision 2010/707/ec are intended, inter alia, to increase employment among age groups, to review tax and social benefit systems, to promote gender equality in the labour market, to promote active ageing and the integration of young people, the disabled, migrants and other groups at risk of exclusion. therefore, this framework should also apply in 2014, as recommended by the author.
in writing. - value added tax covers all types of commercial activity, the production and distribution of goods and the provision of services. it does not concern exported goods or services, but imported goods or services. this is very important for union producers to be able to compete on equal terms within the internal market with suppliers of imported goods and services that are established outside the union. vat issues are very important for businesses and the lack of appropriate regulation can lead to the creation of burdensome barriers. this is the case, for example, in the case of tax reporting obligations, where the diversity of vat returns in different member states places a heavy burden on companies operating across borders. the commission has therefore proposed the introduction of a standard vat return, which will reduce administrative formalities and related costs for both member states' tax authorities and taxpayers. the standardisation of the information required in the vat return, as well as its electronic format, will make it easier for companies to provide the tax authorities of the member states in which they operate with the information necessary for the purposes of vat control and collection. this will mean saving time, reducing costs, allowing easy correction of errors and thus maintaining a balance between the need to reduce the burden on business and the need to remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - unfortunately, turkey remains the most important country for the transit of illegal immigrants into the union. this is often done at great risk to life. for example, people attempting to enter greece use freight transport, including sometimes refrigerated cars. there are also known cases of travel on chassis elements or other external vehicle installations. the curious solution is to blame the driver, who in most cases was not even aware that he was transporting the immigrant. i hope that this agreement and similar agreements with third countries will at least reduce the most dangerous forms of transfer of citizens across the community's borders.
mr. chairman, please! rail transport remains an important means of transporting people. while modern, high-speed connections between large agglomerations are common in the countries of the old union, in poland the quality of rail services still does not meet consumers' expectations. particular problems arise during periods of increased tourism, for example during christmas and holiday travel. the infrastructure is also still inadequate, resulting in regular delays and cancellations. in the interests of polish passengers, i would like to ask the relevant european institutions to be more involved in cooperation on the development of rail transport in my country, which is implemented in a significant part with the use of eu funds. for example, the modernisation of the kraków-katowice key line was once again postponed and the funds transferred to other purposes.
in writing. - i voted against amendment no 5 proposed by the committee on transport and tourism, which points to the positive impact of the opening up of the rail passenger market on the growth of this market and the quality of services in countries such as sweden and the united kingdom. it was based on unbelievable opinions and research. because of the lack of voting discipline in our political group, it is a good indicator that none of the british members of the epp group supported this amendment either. furthermore, the markets in sweden and the united kingdom cannot be representative of the community as a whole. the economies of these countries are much more developed than those of the new community countries and the opening of the railway market may therefore bring about changes other than those envisaged.
in writing. - there are currently over 11 000 different national technical and safety rules for rail in the 28 member states of the european union. this contributes to significant distortions of competition and excessive administrative costs. further harmonisation of rail and the creation of a single european railway area with common rules on the governance of railway undertakings and infrastructure managers, infrastructure financing and charges for its use, conditions for access to rail infrastructure and services and regulatory oversight of the railway market is essential if the railway is to become a credible alternative to other modes of transport in terms of price and quality. the new railway package aims to strengthen passenger rights and guarantee the right to free movement. in the vote on the document i also supported the amendment relating to small railway structures existing in poland, germany, the czech republic, etc., concerning the possibility of excluding from the scope of the directive undertakings operating on lines of less than 500 km.
in writing. - i strongly support the outcome of the vote. i am especially content that my introduction of an amendment (87) for plenary excluding the lhs (linia kolejowa nr 65) rail connection in poland from any legal requirements concerning the institutional separation succeeded. for this technically unique line (different gauge from the polish standard gauge), which stretches 400 km from the bug river bridge (polish-ukraine border) to slawkow (silesian voivodeship), a separation of infrastructure manager and railway operator would create an administrative burden putting the operating efficiency at danger.
in writing. - the report you presented raises a number of questions. when we discuss the rail package, it is worth remembering that the rail sector is in a prolonged crisis. trains are losing out to cars and planes. the recipe i'm proposing is wrong. the situation in rail transport will not improve if the only remedy is to liberalise and privatise the european market. two other factors are underestimated in this report. first, there is a need for professionalism on the railways and for more professional stability for staff. europe's railways should be run by professionals. today, too often, they are replaced by financiers whose only criterion of evaluation is economic efficiency. they forget that the railway has an important public mission to fulfill. the second problem is railway safety. in recent years, there have been too many tragic disasters, like the szczecin in poland or the viareggio in spain. it's also the result of a constant search for savings. you can't afford to skimp on the safety of your passengers.
in writing. - amendment no 72 proposed by saïda el khadraoui to recital 11 of the draft report contrary to the commission proposal takes account of the manner and extent of the provision of social protection to public service workers. the commission text does not ensure proper enforcement. it states the problem, it postulates the solution, but it does not specify who and how is responsible for enforcing the provision. the amendment specifies measures to protect employees of companies that do not win contracts through tendering. the amendment introduced assumes that competition cannot have the effect of worsening working conditions. it is intended to protect workers' wages, which may be unduly reduced by lower prices for services. the amendment corrects the shortcomings in the commission's text, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - as a responsible mep for the socialists and democrats (s&d) on this report in the european parliament i was able to defend the workers’ rights and a balanced approach when it comes to competition. in case of changes between railway operators, we managed to include the mandatory transferral of staff so that social protection and efficient competition can co-exist. whereas the european commission wanted to force the member states to public tender every railway service in poland, we secured the option of well-balanced direct award of public service obligation contracts by the competent authorities. i fully support this report and voted in favour.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mr cramer on railway safety is a very important report. travellers in the community are looking above all for a fast, cheap and safe means of transport. on the other hand, railway companies are looking for profits and rolling stock manufacturers want to bring their vehicles to market as soon as possible. i hope that through the whole railway package we will respond to the needs of these parties and develop the potential of the railway market in the european union, which in many member states, including my own country, poland, is under-invested but also constrained by administrative procedures.
in writing. - rail is one of the safest modes of transport, but further action is needed to ensure even better protection of passengers, human life, public health and the environment. ensuring railway safety requires comprehensive action and cooperation between many actors railway undertakings, infrastructure managers, the railway industry and safety authorities, and the specification of the responsibilities of each actor within their respective areas of activity. it is therefore particularly important to continue the process of harmonising safety rules so that all passengers in the eu are adequately protected. the railway safety rules adopted should also take into account appropriate procedures and tools for the information, management and response to emergencies, as well as for the investigation of accidents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report since it deals with technical aspects in relation to safety issues which allow more efficient, and simplified and harmonised authorisation and certification procedures for railway companies. these changes will ensure common safety rules in the 26 member states of the european union operating railways.
mr. chairman, please! i strongly support the proposal to introduce a reporting obligation on possible incidents that threaten aircraft. the principle of mutual trust underlying the regulation will bring greater transparency to the sector as a whole. historic aircraft and amateur construction are excluded from the regulation, which will avoid unnecessary regulatory burdens. taking into account the increase in air travel in europe, the analysis of hazard and incident data should help to reduce the number of accidents.
mr. chairman, please! we have debated the details of this regulation at committee level on many occasions. i support the recognition of ecall as a free public service. i particularly welcome the fact that this system is based on a publicly available, interoperable platform, open to the introduction of possible additional services in the future. this will complement the voluntary ecall system developed by some member states. the mandatory on-board system will provide significant added value for road users, allowing emergency services to reach victims of accidents more quickly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to make the use of ecall in new vehicles compulsory. this platform, which is to be mandatory from october 2015 in cars in the european union, will be based on approved on-board devices that connect to the european emergency number 112. this will be a public and free system, which will most likely also allow the installation of additional systems or on-board applications in the future. it should be borne in mind that the use of the pan-european ecall platform will rely on the processing of data such as the location or identification of the vehicle, and therefore, in order to ensure an adequate level of protection of personal data of drivers, the system should be passive, without the possibility of tracking vehicles. i believe that this service will directly contribute to saving lives. it will enable emergency services to arrive at the scene of an accident in a reasonable time, reducing the number of fatalities and thus ensuring a much higher level of safety on european roads.
in writing. - parliament has long called for the full implementation of ecall, which will significantly improve road safety. thousands of people are killed in accidents, and more than 1.5 million were injured in 2012 alone. the system will alert the relevant services even if the driver is unconscious or seriously injured and cannot call for help on his own. the system will improve the efficiency of the emergency services by reducing their response time considerably. that is why it is so important that the system is accessible to all drivers. maintaining competitiveness and thus ensuring consumer choice is a very important issue from the internal market point of view. it's a matter of openness. while it should obviously be used primarily to improve road safety, it cannot be excluded that its potential could be extended to other applications. in this respect, the european commission should examine what additional services could be included in the system and which would provide added value for passengers and drivers. it is also important to note that the system has development potential for companies, as they will have the opportunity to provide the technology, parts and services needed to operate the system. the introduction of the system in all vehicles in the european union should significantly increase road safety and the october 2015 deadline for the implementation of the system should therefore be respected.
in writing. - the eu has always been strongly committed to reducing the number of road accidents and mitigating their consequences when they occur. for these reasons, the european parliament adopted the ecall project by an overwhelming majority. the new instrument, once it enters into force in a mandatory form, will reduce the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries resulting from road accidents by allowing the emergency services to intervene more quickly at the scene of the accident. by october 2015, all new models of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will be equipped with this system and the necessary infrastructure will be established for the proper reception and handling of calls in order to ensure compatibility, interoperability and continuity of the ecall service at eu level.
in writing. - in the event of a serious road accident, an ecall-equipped vehicle will automatically call the emergency number of the nearest accident reporting point and send a message. this allows emergency calls to be made without language barriers and can significantly contribute to reducing the number of road fatalities in europe. ecall reduces waiting times for help and can save around 2 500 lives in the european union every year, as well as tens of thousands of serious injuries. the introduction of a public eu vehicle alarm system is an important step towards improving road safety.
mr. chairman, please! the public health programme for the coming years will be less ambitious, but will set specific and measurable objectives and results. strategic objectives such as increasing citizens' access to better healthcare, health prevention and health promotion are particularly promising. it has been rightly said that without a well-functioning health sector, it is difficult to talk about sustainable economic growth. it's one of the pillars of a vibrant society. i expect that the programme and eu funding will enable the introduction and widespread adoption of innovative health solutions.
in writing. - the 'health for growth' programme for 2014-2020 is much needed in europe today. we need to provide citizens with stable, high-quality healthcare today that can meet challenges such as the ageing of the population while extending the life expectancy of its citizens. this programme is an opportunity to revive the labour market, which is estimated to be one million short of workers by 2020. the third programme of union action in the field of health focuses on several priorities such as: developing innovative healthcare systems, providing citizens with better access to them, preventing diseases, promoting healthy lifestyles and protecting against cross-border diseases. it is important that the procedures for applying for funding under the programme themselves are as simple as possible in order to encourage the submission of applications by as many potential public and private sector actors as possible. i am convinced that the implementation of eu programmes such as 'health for growth' is a step forward towards building an innovative, more aware and active europe in the health sector.
in writing. - fellow workers! the eu's multiannual health action programme to 2020 focuses on the link between the health of europe's citizens and economic growth, stimulating innovation and improving healthcare and disease prevention. this programme is designed to support member states in tackling economic and demographic challenges. the financial allocation for the 'health for growth' programme in the new budgetary perspective is eur 446 million in current prices. i think we need to constantly reform our health care system, adapt our programs to the realities of today and respond to new challenges. health is the most precious gift we have, which is why i voted in favour of the third programme of union action in the field of health (2014-2020).
in writing. - any sincere wishes you make for a loved one include good health. this is not surprising, since health has always been one of the most important values for all europeans. the health care sector in each country is thus the subject of intense public attention, and any shortcomings in it are a matter of concern. the european health action programme 2014-2020 is a very useful tool for improving the health of europeans. it is about linking the health of the eu population to the dynamics of economic growth. after all, how healthy we europeans are is how healthy the european economy is. but we cannot be dealing with simple economic logic. good health is not only a guarantee of productivity at work, but above all a measure of quality of life. the level of access to health care and the quality of its services is a measure of civilization and social justice in any country. i am pleased that prevention will be a major focus of the programme, especially in relation to key health risk factors such as smoking, alcohol abuse, obesity and hiv/aids. i believe that additional emphasis should be placed on the fight against chronic diseases, those associated with ageing, and sustainable nutrition and physical activity. health is a complex process that must be viewed in its entirety. i fully support the report.
mr. chairman, please! the creation of broadband networks will allow for a level playing field in access to internet resources for residents of small towns and villages. this is especially true in countries like poland, which still have poor internet technology. it will also help to build a knowledge-based economy, making companies and workers more competitive on global markets, not just european ones. i believe that the development of technological infrastructure should be a priority at all levels of government, whether eu, national, regional or local. the ten regulation partly meets this need.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate mr chatzimarkakis on a very good report. it is sensitive to the needs of persons of all ages and disabilities. these citizens must also be able to access online information on topics relevant to their daily lives. unfortunately, web designers tend to forget about their own unique needs. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a new approach to the application of the regulation to the provision of electronic communications services. the newly formulated definitions better reflect reality and should also streamline the implementation process of the directive.
in writing. - the number of websites is growing rapidly, and they are increasingly used to provide information or services. the same applies to public and private sector entities. the public sector already has hundreds of thousands of websites, but less than 10% of websites in the eu meet the standards for web accessibility. this area is home to thousands of businesses, generating jobs and a turnover of €144 billion. network accessibility can contribute to the further development of the single market and to ensuring universal access to services for all eu citizens. the accessibility of the network is of great economic importance and has a significant potential for economic growth and social inclusion. in particular, the use of websites by all citizens, including people with disabilities. therefore, all public sector bodies should apply the principle of network availability. member states have already implemented legislation on this issue, but barriers remain due to differences in national approaches. the new rules therefore aim to approximate the member states' rules on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites by setting out harmonised requirements. one of the more important aspects is to identify the types of public sector bodies' websites that are relevant to citizens' participation in economic and social life.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i voted today in favour of the report on the accessibility of public sector websites because i believe that the internet is an increasingly common tool for the pursuit of broadly defined public policy objectives. it is gradually becoming not only the main channel for the flow of information between public administrations and citizens, but also a tool for the delivery of a specific service. the rapid digitization of recent years has created a phenomenon that we can call modern illiteracy. digital backwardness is increasingly becoming a cause of social exclusion. undoubtedly, this is partly due to the fact that only 10% of websites meet the minimum standards for web accessibility. that is why the initiative of the european commission and the comments made by the rapporteur are so important. the issue of accessibility of websites is also important from the point of view of the labour market and free access to information on employment conditions, especially abroad. i have personally fought for this in working on the new directive on the posting of workers.
in writing. - the economic crisis has led to a sharp decline in the confidence of citizens in banking institutions and a reluctance of the latter to take the risks associated with lending and credit. as a result, much investment and economic growth in the member states has been held back. to enable economic growth, business development and financial stability in europe, we need alternative financing methods, especially long-term financing. institutional schemes such as pension funds can potentially provide long-term investment, while development banks such as the european investment bank can support the development of private enterprise. additional financing for smes can be obtained by increasing the credit capacity of the european investment fund and by implementing provisions simplifying administrative procedures, as for example the framework programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. i agree with the committee on employment and social affairs that funding the eu economy should be in the public interest. we need to support job creation, strengthen social cohesion and tackle exclusion. let us also not forget that it is often investments in economically 'non-viable' sectors, such as education and research, that will lead to better quality of life and economic prosperity in the long run.
in writing. - i have decided to support an alternative resolution that distinguishes between forced prostitution and prostitution of choice. forced prostitution, trafficking in women and sexual exploitation are forms of violence that must be combated by all means possible. in turn, sex workers who perform this work of choice should receive appropriate health and social care. the criminalisation of prostitution could have the opposite effect by contributing to the additional stigmatisation of sex workers, increasing the likelihood of violence against them and creating obstacles to their belief in the legitimacy of reporting any crime they experience to the police and authorities.
in writing. - natural resources can be an important element of economic development. this is especially true in many african countries, which have the lowest per capita incomes in the world. the report, which relates to the mining industry, comprehensively analyses political, social, economic and environmental factors. it sets out the conditions for supporting and integrating traditional and small-scale mining. importantly, it also addresses issues of a nature such as local conflict in mineral-extracting areas. they represent a major challenge both for foreign entrepreneurs and for the protection of human rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i was in kiev this morning, which is waking up to hope, and now i am taking part in the most important debate of the year in the european parliament. this is a historic moment for ukraine, a european nation, in terms of culture and history, and it's also a very important moment for us, for political europe, because we should hear this knock of the ukrainians at the eu door and we should, i say this clearly, say that in the future, we don't know when exactly, but in the future ukraine's place is in the european union and this must be declared. let's not be cocky, let's not be afraid to talk about it. tonight, maidan will be presented with the new ukrainian government, a pro-european government. i know and we know a number of politicians who will be in this government - they are pro-european politicians. this government will want to sign an association agreement with the union and therefore this government needs to be given a vote of confidence. it's not like prime minister verhofstadt says, because those ukrainians on the maidan wanted to go west, not east, and they declared that very clearly. there was fighting in crimea today. it is precisely today that we should make it clear that we, as the european union, are for the territorial integrity of ukraine, for the entire territory of ukraine to remain as it has been until now. commissioner füle said that russia could help - it's like being david copperfield pulling a rabbit out of a hat with the words "russia friendly to its neighbours". we don't know a rabbit like that. let's be careful about that. when i spoke at the maidan, and i spoke three times, the most vivid reaction from the ukrainians was when i spoke about the visa waiver. yeah, we should do that. we know that some european governments are skeptical, but we should definitely go in that direction. we should give the ukrainians hope that they can come to us. finally, we need not so much a marshall plan, we need a european union financial assistance plan, a stabilization pact. this is also ukraine's right, and we should give it to them.
on behalf of the efd group. - madam president! - i have to go. a few years ago, vladimir putin said that the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the 20th century was the collapse of the soviet union. this is the context in which we must see the events in ukraine. the previous governments, both orange and yanukovych, created a sick, pro-russian, oligarchic system. that's why maidan was created. so this is the phenomenon of the third force, which has rejected both. today we bow our heads before the blood of the maidan, today we bow our heads before the ukrainians who lost their lives in the struggle for dignity and freedom. the scale of this crisis might not have been so great if there had been a credible offer from the european union. meanwhile, in the face of the obvious opposition of france and germany to the european aspirations of ukrainians, the offer to ukraine was a pure gimmick, a "joke" on the subject. any sensible president, whoever he is, would have to turn that offer down. the crisis has also exposed the weakness of the european union. the union acted like a crushed pudding, and russia, which was tough and made a tough economic offer, acted like a tank, and won the game. mrs. ashton was completely helpless. it took three ministers to save the day. what about the future? we must support democracy, we must not allow russian separatism and disintegration of the country, we must allow ukrainians to get rid of the old regime, to carry out a lustration, to strip the oligarchs of their assets and wait for a credible president and government who will not steal european aid and present them with a credible european integration offer. as a pole whose countrymen number 120,000 killed by the upa gangs, i cannot but make this condition to exclude from the ukrainian mainstream ukrainian nationalists who have not cut themselves off from the upa criminal legacy. last sentence, madam president, the east is shaping the matrix of europe for the next 20 years. let's not waste the european chance for a free ukraine, which will be pro-european and independent of russia.
blue-card question. – i listened to your words with admiration when you spoke about courage. how can you reconcile the courage you so admire with the fact that two hours ago you blocked the reference to membership perspectives for the eu? it was not much, just saying it is a long-term perspective and just repeating – copy-pasting – what we said in october.
madam president, we need to offer a new and enhanced package to ukraine. the ukrainian new democratic reality requires that we do so. they did, in fact, fulfil our three requirements from vilnius: selective justice, tymoshenko to be freed, and justice restored. elections will be, i hope, fair. let me concentrate on one of the points i wanted to raise. we should show ukraine the european perspective, based on article[nbsp ]49 teu. but after the popular uprising started under european flags, and after people fought and died under those flags, i regret to say that our joint motion for a resolution is less explicit on that perspective in its article[nbsp ]22 than our october vilnius enp panzeri/saryusz-wolski report. we would send a very negative signal to ukraine if, in a resolution in february, we say less on the european perspective for ukraine to a new democratic government than we did in october in the vilnius enp report to the yanukovych regime. this would not go unnoticed in kiev. it would be a great pity and a shame and, even more, we would show that we are offering less for more, contradicting the very essence of our doctrine and our principles. i submitted an amendment with 90 signatures to the ukraine resolution, proposing as a lowest common denominator to repeat copy-paste what we agreed and voted in the october 2013 report, stating things which are obvious from our treaty: ‘stresses that, according to article 49 of the treaty, all european countries, including ukraine, have the long-term possibility of applying for membership of the european union’. i appeal to members to vote for this. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – we should persevere and require russia to respect the budapest 1994 memorandum, which gave assurances to ukraine of security of its territory and non-coercion methods. it was signed by russia, britain, some other (i do not recall) major states – and america – and it would be a violation of international law if russia crossed this red line and intervened in the sovereign choice of the ukrainian state.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! if four months of standing in the cold, if almost a hundred victims, if that doesn't convince you, then no one will. and if today you are not able to raise your hand to say - not half-mouthedly, not whisperingly - that we are opening europe to ukrainians, if today you are not able to write this in a resolution, but you are hiding in the corners and wondering how to change this sentence so that it does not sound, then you are not worthy to sit in this room, and we are not worthy to be called the place where the new europe is to be born. we need to offer the new government short-term help now, and then we need to call a donor conference so that ukrainians who will be voting on may 25th can be sure that we are not leaving them on the ice. we need to start petitioning now for a commission to investigate the crimes of the past three months. we have to answer ukraine now: if you miss this opportunity, you will do exactly the same as in 2005, but you will not have the right to criticize the ukrainians afterwards.
madam president! the bloody events in ukraine were, among other things, the consequence of the ambiguous policy of the european union. today too, despite the changes taking place there, the union is not sending a clear message that it sees the prospect of ukraine's membership in our structure. it has previously made a big mistake by not allocating adequate funds to ukraine, also within the eastern partnership. russia has easily passed this offer and does not seem to be passively accepting the loss of its influence in the region. it's time to help ukraine, not just politically, but financially. we need a big fund, which commissioner oli rehn and mrs ashton have been talking about. it must involve all member states, as well as international financial institutions and the united states. the situation in ukraine remains volatile and unpredictable. the european parliament should therefore send a clear and strong signal today for rapid and concrete assistance.
madam president! i would like to start by paying tribute to the victims of the kiev event, the victims of the fight for the european union, for democracy, and to express my condolences and sympathy to the families of these brave people. secondly, i want to say the following: we should act quickly. let's not wait for the new president to be elected on may 25th. at the european council in march, let us once again endorse the offer in the form of the association agreement currently being negotiated. we don't have to wait, let's do it in the next month. thirdly, although the compromise text of article 22 talks about article 49, i think the earlier version proposed by the european people's party is much better, because the people of ukraine are waiting for a clear, unambiguous statement that they have the right, the opportunity and the political possibility to become members of the european union one day. fourth, let's be generous financially, not just the european union (the truth is that maybe even the union can't afford to save this country from bankruptcy), but as the west, as donors, we, the americans, all the people who understand the strategic importance of ukraine and understand that this revolution that has happened can fall under the weight of lack of money, poverty and economic crisis. and fifth, looking at mr. belder, who is no longer here, but i want to say to all those on the other side of the room who say that the union was ineffective: gentlemen, beat yourselves up, because you don't want a strong foreign policy, you don't want the union to be a serious international player, and then you come out here and criticize the european union. listen to mr belder, who said one thing: 'i am proud of what the european union has done.' be proud and don't interfere with the union in building a common foreign policy, because you want a runner to win the 100-meter race with usain bolt with his legs tied. and you want to tie your legs and expect efficiency. more humility in what's going on here and more responsibility for the words you speak.
madam president! i will continue this thread whether the european union is up to the task or not. and i will say very clearly: without the neighbourhood policy that we have implemented for so many years in this term, there would be no maidan. without the young people who believed in the european perspective for their country, there would be no maidan in ukraine. thousands, tens of thousands of people from all over europe, from poland too, came to the maidan and supported this european thinking, which is embodied in the european neighbourhood policy that we have been implementing. all those who are wiping their faces with the european union, please come to your senses. if it wasn't for our policies, none of this would have happened. and one word: for three months in ukraine, the cry was heard: "glory to ukraine!" and the answer: "i am the hero of glory!" let us give glory to this brave new european ukraine. let's fill that password with new content. may the memory of those heroes who fought, suffered and died on maidan spread throughout europe, especially those who want to change their country towards democracy, towards freedom, towards tolerance. such ukraine is to be praised.
mr. chairman, please! it is likely that a new government will be formed in ukraine now or in the next few minutes. so we're going to start talking about very normal things, and one of those very normal, mundane things is economics. we're going to need to diagnose the state of the ukrainian economy, not just the state of the finances, because we know a little bit about that. ukraine's economy is based on heavy industry. in order to support the economy, we'll have to talk about loans, credit, but maybe also about joint investments to give growth opportunities. ukraine should be included in major european projects such as trans-european transport and energy networks. the polish government has already done the math, and in january our exports to ukraine fell by 10%, in february by 30%. we will all suffer from the shrinking ukrainian market for our enterprises. it will be necessary - and here i am asking the commissioner - to look at the situation of our community companies on the ukrainian market. are their rights respected there? so i want to focus on economic issues and the concept of cooperation and the inclusion of ukraine in european projects, especially infrastructure.
mr. chairman, please! in ukraine, time has moved on, and it has moved on a lot. of course we were moved by what happened at euromaidan, we sympathized with all those who lost their lives or are injured. at the same time, the situation is not yet stable. we hear about what's happening in crimea, there's different assessments of where crimea should be. we are for the integrity of all of ukraine. we can also say that the foreign ministers of poland, france and germany, and european diplomacy, have done their part and have succeeded in stopping the bloodshed. it's a shame that when it was time for the partnership agreement, we didn't make an offer that was competitive for ukraine. it is now urgent to present a plan of aid, real but generous, both economic and financial. we know that russia has withdrawn from this aid program. the ukrainian state may lose its liquidity in the short term. it may also have debt problems with energy suppliers. this may result in problems for the transmission of gas to europe via the ukrainian transmission system. the european union must show the ukrainians that it is not turning its back on them. it is therefore imperative to introduce visa-free travel and to present a long-term perspective for ukraine's membership of the european union. commissioner, i thank you for saying that the association agreement, the free trade area, is not the final proposal from the european union. that's a lot of work for you. in addition to economic aid and the involvement of international and european financial institutions, energy cooperation is also needed. community is not enough. and i'll end by saying that there are many sources of help. the official one is institutional, but there are also local governments, civil society, ngos. they can also help you understand ukrainian ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! we are talking about ukraine again. i have already called for an association agreement and for assistance in reforms, but i do not need to say that today because the council and the commission are doing everything they can to help ukraine effectively. the latest mission of minister sikorski, minister steinmeier and minister fabius speaks for itself. what is the role of the european parliament in the daily struggle for civil liberties, for the right of nations to self-determination, their right to choose their future? it is no coincidence that the names of members of parliament are often better known in ukraine than the leaders of many member states. why is that? because we, the representatives of the europeans, democratically elected by them, are the eyes of the ukrainians. we're the symbol of freedom and democracy to them. that's why we have to say today after so many victims on the maidan, dear brothers of ukraine, we thank you for your hand and we extend our hand to you. we do not hesitate to recognise, in plain language, your right to membership of the european union once the conditions laid down in the treaties have been fulfilled. if we don't say it today, how will our next missions tomorrow, led by elmar brok, be able to look the ukrainians in the eye? how will you look ukrainians in the eye, dear colleagues?
mr. chairman, please! the events taking place in ukraine are a very important step on the road to social, economic and political change, which should be aimed at the introduction of democratic mechanisms and full transparency. the victims of the maidan cannot be allowed to go to waste. we cannot let down the enthusiasm and hope of the ukrainian people. a lot of the changes are up to the ukrainians themselves. however, without outside help, ukraine will not be able to cope with the necessary changes and expectations. the european union should aim for an economically stable, self-governing and democratic ukraine, preferably within the eu structures. the ukrainian people are not waiting for gestures, but for tangible help, for visa facilitation, for substantive support, but above all financial. i understand that this is not easy and straightforward, but i expected more specifics in your speech. i also expected a reminder that russia had pledged to be a formal guarantor of ukraine's independence and inviolability of its borders.
mr. chairman, please! we participated in such sad debates full of empathy, solidarity and compassion for 5 long years, only later the offer to the ukrainians, which we made in the form of an association agreement, was pitifully weak. we have to feel responsible for what happened there, because something happened there and almost 100 people died there. we are responsible not in a legal sense, not in a moral sense, but in a political sense. so today, commissioner, leaving aside what we have not done, we will once again have to present a better association agreement to the new parliament and the new president. we must indeed ensure that visas are abolished (this is being welcomed with a certain grumbling or a certain reluctance in this chamber, and this must be overcome), we must, and it is up to us, overcome this reluctance to include in our resolution something that was already in it. if we are not able to after this tragedy...
in writing. i would like to express my satisfaction with the outcome of the talks between the representatives of european diplomacy in ukraine. first of all, it should be emphasised that they were peaceful in nature and that they were able to break the resistance of the ukrainian authorities without further bloodshed. i am pleased to see the democratic spirit of ukraine and the persistence of its citizens in their quest for democratic forms of government. fortunately, it seems that their suffering has come to an end, and the release of yulia tymoshenko is a manifestation and demonstration of ukraine's choice of geopolitical orientation. i call on the european union to take active action to help ukraine and to seek the signing of an association agreement. all means, including the european instrument for democracy and human rights, should be fully used to bring about respect for democratic values and human rights in ukraine. i urge the creation of an independent commission of inquiry, set up under the auspices of an international institution such as the council of europe, to investigate and expose to the world all the human rights violations that have taken place. to this day, the number of dead remains unknown. the world must learn the true extent of the tragedy unfolding beyond our eastern borders. the decision of the ukrainian parliament to bring viktor yanukovych before the international criminal court in the hague is the first step towards the accountability of the ukrainian people and the entire international community for these tragic events.
mr. chairman, please! i must refer in one sentence to the statement made by the member of parliament, on behalf of the gue group, who blamed the international coalition for everything that is happening in iraq. i must remind the honourable member - unfortunately she is not here - that the international coalition has overthrown the bloody dictator, saddam hussein, who was able to order the gassing of several thousand people in one day, including thousands of women and children. and that's certainly something we have to keep in mind when we talk about iraq's past. now, the future of iraq and today. of course, the past year and the months of this year that are now behind us have been extremely bloody months in iraq and this is something that must be condemned by us and will be condemned, i hope, in our resolution. we must send a very clear message to the iraqi government that any assistance we give to the building of this young state must be conditional on the iraqi authorities ensuring the security of ethnic and religious minorities, including christians, in baghdad and other parts of iraq. we must call on the high representative and all the member states of the european union to do so.
mr. chairman, please! in 2013, more than 5,000 people were killed in iraq, and in 2014, more than 900 people were killed. insurgency and terrorist attacks are intensifying in the run-up to the april parliamentary elections. the first important issue is the rights of the sunni minority, and it is essential to defuse tensions through a national dialogue between the shiite majority and the sunni minority. this is one of the conditions for restoring stability to the country and respecting the rights of all iraqi citizens. the iraqi government and all political forces should focus on ensuring the safety and security of all citizens, including ethnic and religious minorities. it is also important to carry out detailed investigations into recent terrorist attacks. another issue is the justice system. the crucial element here is corruption. corruption is a force for violence, it destroys the economy, it destroys exports, it destroys social life, and that's why we have to fight this pathology, but we're not doing that in iraq. the problem of the death penalty iraq carried out 169 executions in 2013, third only to china and iran. the criminal law distinguishes 48 crimes punishable by death, and we therefore strongly urge the iraqi government to declare a moratorium on all executions and to abolish the death penalty in the near future. i also pay attention to the situation of women. there are very disturbing reports that thousands of iraqi women are being illegally held in prisons, where they are subjected to torture, ill-treatment and sexual assault. urgent action is needed to improve their situation. i also hope that the recently launched programme of reorganisation and renovation of detention centres and prisons under the supervision of the iraqi minister of justice will help protect human rights in iraqi prisons.
mr. chairman, please! despite the international community's strong commitment to stabilising iraq, the country continues to experience regular fighting. every day brings more deaths. we're seeing a rise in religious tensions. the active involvement of terrorist organisations is not without significance. all of this shows that security in this country is a serious challenge. unfortunately, some of the actions of the authorities also raise serious concerns. in addition to the brutal acts of violence that require an explanation, there are attempts by the ruling class to intimidate journalists and to attack women and religious minorities. nasuwa is seriously concerned about the proper conduct of the upcoming elections. i therefore appeal to those in power to govern in a way that respects international standards of democracy and human rights.
mr. chairman, please! we have been hearing for some time about the dramatic situation in the ashraf camp, where several thousand refugees, former opponents of the iranian regime, are staying, and the humanitarian situation there is drastic. at the beginning of september last year, the biggest attack took place there, when dozens of people were killed, there were drastic videos of dozens of people being executed, and recently seven people were abducted in this camp, their fate is unknown. these are very dramatic events, and the iraqi authorities are cutting themselves off from them, but it's hard to imagine that they're not controlling the situation to the point that they don't know who's doing these brutal attacks. i would like to ask whether the commission is analysing the situation in this area, whether it is taking any action to counter these drastic attacks and the humanitarian disaster that is threatening there? there could be a massacre in this camp at any moment. we have to deal with this.
mr. chairman, please! the debate today is about the fact that we are receiving reports of an ever-worsening internal situation in iraq. the safety of the people is at stake, the safety of the minorities, the refugees is at stake. the example of camp ashraf, which mr wojciechowski mentioned, is also a good example. the situation is not being improved by the unrest in the region, and in particular the situation in syria. it would be very bad if this conflict were to spill over into iraq. in this context, it is also necessary to mention the plight of ethnic and religious minorities, who are exposed to attacks both from groups fighting the iraqi government and to discrimination from the legitimate centres of power, both federal and partly in the kurdish autonomy. there's been no major progress in ending the conflict between the shiites and the sunnis. as a result of persecution, hundreds of thousands of christians have been forced to flee their homes, including to the kurdish autonomous region. many left iraq altogether and went to syria. now, these people are returning, although despite the reduction in attacks, the persecution continues. but i would like to acknowledge the government's efforts, including the strengthening of church protection. symbolically, last year, prime minister maliki and leaders of the muslim community attended the consecration of the church, which was the target of a terrorist attack four years ago.
madam president! where is mrs. ashton? where's the high representative? is that what her involvement in iraq looks like? we have heard many sad words in this room today about the events that are taking place there, about the casualties that are being suffered at this moment. are we going to go through the motions on these matters? no, you can't! i think we need to be very clear and very clear with mrs. ashton: please get to work, please get more involved in these events. because what happened, for example, at camp ashraf last september, is inexcusable. these 52 people were brutally murdered, their families, their loved ones don't know where they were buried, and they were denied even that right. i think we should call attention to the need for an independent international investigation into this matter. i think we should be mindful that member states must be open to accepting those refugees who are still in camp liberty.
in writing. iraq is currently facing its worst wave of violence since 2008. i'd like to raise a particular issue with regard to camp liberty. its status has been recognized by the united states and the european union, yet the iranian opposition representatives inside it are not safe. i understand that iraq is facing many political challenges at the moment, but as the european parliament we cannot stand by and watch as dozens of innocent people are killed. a few months ago, we had evidence presented to us in parliament: shocking video footage and eyewitness testimony. each of us should have them in mind. i call for swift, decisive and effective action on camp liberty.
madam president! there's a saying in poland that you can't turn the vistula, our biggest river, around with a stick. today, we must be clear: unmanned aerial vehicles, which we commonly call drones, are already in common use in 80 countries around the world. of course, most of these countries don't use drones for military purposes, military, but rather for civilian purposes. drones help protect borders, they help with rescue operations at sea, and we can imagine many more uses for these unmanned vehicles that will become more common. about a quarter of these countries use drones for military purposes, but in reality, in practice, only three, namely the united states, israel and the united kingdom. and of course this aspect of the use of drones - and here our political group is also behind it - must be regulated by international law. there are no such regulations in place today and we must change this situation as soon as possible. as for the argument that some of you have used, that civilians are killed in drone attacks, that is of course a terrible thing and any such fact is reprehensible, but i wanted to say that the use of conventional weapons in wars, for example, in the 20th century also killed millions of civilians.
madam president! the european investigation order is a very important instrument, and i think it will be of much greater practical importance than the european arrest warrant. it will cover a very wide range of cases very often in criminal proceedings there is a need to seek evidence outside the country where the proceedings are taking place, to question witnesses, experts, to obtain some material evidence that is abroad, therefore law enforcement agencies will certainly be happy to use this instrument. it will be a good and necessary instrument for closer judicial cooperation in the member states. but i want to share this with you, and i think that in order to strengthen judicial cooperation, we should look more closely at the level of justice in the member states. citizens often complain about the justice system, it can't be a state within a state, it must be a real justice system that inspires the trust of citizens.
madam president! the european arrest warrant is intended to expedite the procedures for bringing suspects and accused persons to justice. the previously existing administrative decision-making stages have been eliminated, significantly reducing the time taken for extradition. in the context of open internal borders, member states must have the tools to ensure that wanted criminals do not escape prosecution. however, there are still some shortcomings in community legislation in this area. this leads in certain cases to an alleged selectivity of the action of national decision-making bodies leading to abuse of this mechanism or to a failure to respect the principle of proportionality. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to cooperate more closely in the proper use and integrity of the european arrest warrant.
madam president! i welcome the signing of this agreement with indonesia. beyond the commercial aspects, it is an expression of efforts to improve sustainable forest management on a global scale. the country remains a major exporter of timber, but uncontrolled logging is destroying the rainforest. the partnership agreement will ensure that indonesian timber is brought to european markets with full legal guarantees. i hope that this will at least to some extent curb the corruption and speculation that is so prevalent in the indonesian economy.
- madam president! i regret that commissioner damanaki is not here, but i am grateful to her on behalf of the fisheries committee and myself, thank you for this vote. i am glad that we have been able to initiate a debate here in the european parliament on the legal status of the svalbard archipelago and its fish stocks. our question concerns the dangerous and growing problem of the unjustified appropriation of the greenland halibut quota in the svalbard area by norway and russia in recent years. the svalbard archipelago was granted to norway under the treaty of spitsbergen in order to guarantee a fair legal system throughout the area, including the principle of non-discrimination - that is a very important word - in access to the archipelago's fish resources. in 1977, norway unilaterally declared the establishment of a fisheries protection zone in the svalbard region and claims that the provisions of the spitsbergen treaty on non-discrimination do not apply to this zone. in 2010, norway and russia signed an agreement in murmansk to divide the maritime boundaries in the barents sea. some of the waters of the fisheries protection zone in the svalbard region are now east of the demarcation line in murmansk. norway and russia cooperate in the management of fish stocks in the barents sea through the joint norwegian-russian fisheries commission. in recent years, this has led to the appropriation of fishing opportunities to the detriment of member states. it is important that the european commission addresses this issue to norway, because in the absence of a response from the european union, norway will address these issues with its own interests in mind. i would therefore like to ask the commission a few questions. first, does the european commission consider that the member states party to the 1920 spitsbergen treaty enjoy equal fishing rights in the svalbard fisheries protection zone? question no 2: what is the position of the european commission on the legal status of the part of the fisheries protection zone in the svalbard region which lies east of the line drawn in murmansk? is this part to be considered as international waters off the russian shelf or is it part of the russian exclusive economic zone? thirdly, if european union fishermen lose their fishing rights in the svalbard fisheries protection zone east of the murmansk line, will the commission consider their claims for compensation? fourthly, what is the commission's position on the legality of the transfer of responsibility by norway and russia for part of the norwegian exclusive economic zone in the barents sea? the commission is also aware of the fact that the fishing fleet in the baltic sea is being used by the norwegian government to fish for halibut, and that the norwegian authorities are also aware of the fact that the norwegian authorities are using the norwegian fishing fleet to fish for halibut.
mr. chairman, please! we all have to ask ourselves, will caracas be a repeat of kiev? initial demands for changes in the government and dramatic improvements in the economic situation have turned into massive and bloody demonstrations. unfortunately, government troops use live ammunition. the government's actions are aimed at suppressing the opposition, a peaceful movement. i want to express my solidarity with the protesters and my concern for the possibility of an escalation of the conflict. i call on the venezuelan government to stop using violence against its own citizens. i call for respect for civil rights and freedoms, especially freedom of speech and media independence. it is the duty of every government to ensure the safety of its citizens. but this cannot be done through brutal pacifications. i expect a constructive dialogue with the opposition and the provision of basic economic needs.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the liberalisation of visa policy towards the eastern partnership countries reflects the interests of the european community. the current events in ukraine show how fatal laziness can be in this area as well. i fully support the commission's proposal to allow moldovan citizens to enter the union without a visa. this bilateral agreement may be crucial to russia's plans to subjugate this state as well. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the need for a similar approach to citizens of countries such as georgia, the aforementioned ukraine and belarus. they remain under enormous pressure from moscow. the visa-free regime will certainly contribute to deepening the pro-european aspirations of these countries and their relations with brussels. finally, i would like to ask you once again to commit to the abolition of us visas for all citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the issue of personal copying is really either ridiculous or very serious. i understand that any author who writes anything or creates anything for the public use of others would like to have some reward for it, but when i think about science, about the development of education, i can't imagine that a student copying from a book (even my page or some other) had to pay for everything. it's not common sense. there must be some sense in using the common good, which is science, knowledge, it all has to be paid for.
mr. chairman, please! after the vote on this historic resolution, i demand that the host of this democratic chamber, mr schulz, send a clear and unambiguous message to the people of ukraine about our position on their aspirations and their future. we know what the ukrainians expect from us, but... (the speaker withdrew)
mr president, i propose an oral amendment which was agreed by the greens, s&d, ppe and ecr with alde free vote, which would insert into paragraph[nbsp ]22, after the words ‘serious european perspective’, the following words: ‘stresses furthermore that article[nbsp ]49 teu refers to all european states, including ukraine, which may apply to become a member of the union;’ and then the text goes on ‘provided that they adhere...ʼ and so forth. if adopted this oral amendment would replace my written amendment. if not, my written amendment would be submitted to vote. i appeal to colleagues to send a positive signal to ukraine by approving this oral amendment.
mr president, on behalf of the ppe group i would like to propose an oral amendment which is about energy cooperation; a very important issue. the amendment is as follows: ‘stresses the importance of secure, diversified and affordable energy supply as a pillar of economic, social and political transition and of securing a competitive and prosperous economy for all ukrainians; in this regard underlines the strategic role of the energy community, of which ukraine holds presidency in 2014, as the only treaty currently connecting ukraine and the european union’.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! in connection with the publication of the tabloid bild, i wish to inform you that on tuesday, while travelling to the european parliament session, i was treated inappropriately by airport staff in frankfurt am main. i have no doubt that this is a violation of protocol no 7 to the treaty. i asked the president of parliament, mr martin schulz, to give an appropriate response to this case of infringement of european law, and in particular of articles 7, 8 and 9 of the aforementioned protocol. as politicians, we must be prepared for very sharp criticism at times, but i want to declare that the publication of the "bild" is false and offensive.
mr. chairman, please! when it comes to regulating common rules on sales, it is important to ensure that they are consistent with the general trend of work on consumer rights. the rights and obligations of the two counterparties should be clearly and precisely defined. the consumer is usually more exposed to the loss resulting from the lack of clarity of entitlement. because of the asymmetry in access to information, it requires special protection. there are doubts that the additional optional instrument will not lead to legal complications, which could significantly undermine consumer protection. some proposals appear to favour the trader in a dispute, which can be particularly dangerous for online transactions. i am concerned about the risks to the proper functioning of the single market.
in writing. - crossborder trade between businesses and consumers is an important aspect of the internal market. the common european sales rules are intended to be an independent and uniform set of rules designed, inter alia, to protect consumers. however, these provisions do not replace national regulations but constitute an optional regime of contract law. it is certainly necessary that this system be clear and precise and also consistent with existing legislation, in particular with regard to consumer rights. for these reasons, the internal market committee played a significant role in the report, paying attention, inter alia, to the position of the consumer as a party to the contract, which is by nature much weaker than that of the firm. consumers therefore require a high level of protection. however, the proposed rules are intended to be optional, which creates legal uncertainty rather than clarity for consumers. the imco commission has thus challenged this system, although it is convinced of the need for common european regulations in the field of consumer contract law. a possible alternative to the optional right to buy and sell could be further harmonisation of eu consumer contract law and the development of online commerce by regulating digital content contracts. the report should provide a basis for possible further negotiations with the council on this issue, and the priority should remain to ensure legal clarity and a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. - the regulations adopted under the tobacco directive are the result of a long negotiation process and a compromise taking into account both health arguments and the reasons of the tobacco industry, including poland, as one of the largest tobacco producers in europe. the final text regulates, among other things, a six-year transitional period for menthol cigarettes, allows the use of sugar during production, while prohibiting other flavourings (except smokeless tobacco products), does not ban slim cigarettes, requires the use of 65% of the surface of cigarette packaging for health warnings, and takes into account the implementation of control systems by member states to prevent illicit smuggling or verify the age of the person making the purchase. the compromise also addressed the issue of e-cigarettes and allowed for their widespread availability, while reserving the member states' discretion for further detailed decisions. in the context of the preliminary proposal of the european commission, whose provisions i considered inadequate, i accept the outcome of the european parliament's work as balanced, as it takes into account not only health policy issues but also eliminates negative consequences for production and employment in poland.
in writing. - the report adopted today is the result of many months of very intensive work. the aim remained to ensure a high level of consumer protection and in particular to reduce the attractiveness of tobacco products to children and young people. data indicate that as many as 70 percent of smokers have smoked their first cigarette before the age of 18. tobacco-related diseases kill 700 000 people in the eu every year. this is why it was so important to introduce legislation to ensure that consumers are provided with reliable information about the effects of tobacco products on human health. i therefore supported mixed health warnings in the form of colour photographs and text that will be more visible and readable to consumers. i also advocated keeping slim and menthol cigarettes on the market for a long transitional period because if we are not banning all cigarettes, banning only one type of tobacco product will not reduce the number of smokers and may have a negative impact on the economy. from the very beginning of the very difficult work on the directive, i have stressed the need to balance the interests of producers and health issues. i am glad that after many months of talks, meetings, persuading other members to accept the polish position and, as a result, my opinion in the imco committee, the idea of keeping slimes and menthols on the market has been considered. the compromise adopted is balanced and beneficial for consumers and producers.
in writing. - an anti-nicotine campaign cannot be based solely on actions targeting manufacturers. this is not the way to end smoking. but our job is to protect citizens as best we can, and that's why we need to take steps to raise awareness and educate the public about the dangers of smoking. certainly, part of this campaign is to reduce the appeal of the habit, to ban colourful packaging and neat packaging. will this help you stop smoking? and are these actions legal in the context of competition and free market laws? if so, why don't we standardize the whiskey and wine bottles? after all, drunk driving, drug abuse, and post-drink violence are not isolated incidents. i think there is a certain injustice to the tobacco industry. but i would like to support the idea of fighting this horrible, senseless addiction that causes so much irreversible damage and deadly disease. i therefore support any action to educate citizens, especially young people, about the harmfulness of nicotine and to oblige manufacturers to label products correctly and to provide consumers with accurate information.
in writing. - the work on the shape of the new tobacco products directive has been controversial. and rightly so, because first of all, smoking remains a serious social problem, with implications for public health. secondly, as i have argued many times, the european commission's initial legislative proposal could not be accepted by countries such as poland. today we have another document, which has been substantially amended. through our joint efforts, we have been able to reach a compromise that i believe balances the interests of public health and those of workers in the tobacco industry and trade. first, the new appearance and shape of tobacco packaging will no longer leave consumers in any doubt that these products pose a serious health risk. we will withdraw menthol cigarettes from the market, but after a six-year transition period to allow for market adjustments. we also managed to preserve the slim cigarettes that are popular in poland and to secure the use of sugar as a technological additive. finally, e-cigarette users can rest easy, as these products will not have to be subject to pharmaceutical regulation, with their quality being determined by special regulations. so we're not dumping the baby with the bathtub. protecting the health of eu citizens and raising their awareness of the effects of smoking will not have a negative impact on thousands of workers in the sector. that is why i can vote for the report this time.
in writing. - i have voted in favor of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products (com(2012)0788 – c7-0420/2012 – 2012/0366(cod)). as many may know, this report was surrounded by controversy and heated debate. my perspective is that the legislation serves it purpose of minimising the attractiveness of smoking for minors and provides the needed information regarding the health risks involved in the use of tobacco products. while i do not condone nor condemn the use of tobacco, the health risks are there and our citizens deserve to know what effects it may have. while, at the same time, a ban or restriction on said products to those who are of age should not be implemented as it also restricts freedoms as well as increases other issues such as black market demand, which the eu has little or no power to regulate. this directive allows the tobacco user to continue to use tobacco and at the same time increases the protection for our young people not to obtain the habit.
in writing. - the report presents evidence that points to a link between prostitution and human trafficking. the fight against trafficking in human beings cannot be fought by punishing women forced into prostitution. we need a fight on the ground. as examples from some member states show, the legalization of prostitution does not contribute to the reduction of prostitution. one method that has worked in the fight against human trafficking is the one used in the nordic countries. the nordic method assumes the impunity of the prostitute and the responsibility of the person who uses the practice. this is a way to defend women who are forced to do this. the resolution also provides for the protection of women from outside the union, without interfering with the member states' competences in this area of law. that's why i voted for this bill in the final vote.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i voted today in favour of the report on the future of solvitu because i believe that improving its future functioning is an integral part of a well-functioning internal market, which in turn translates into economic growth in the member states. solvit has been in operation for over 10 years. unfortunately, given the size of the single market, i would say that the 1,300 cases handled by the system last year are a failure, not a success. the first reason for this state of affairs is the actual lack of knowledge of the existence of this system. the commission's survey shows that more than 90% of respondents were unaware of solvitu's existence ten years after its creation. it shows the complete failure of the information strategy. secondly, solvit is hardly used by businesses. this may indicate that from their standpoint, he is useless. this is confirmed by the fact that the system's staff very often dismiss cases handled by entrepreneurs as too complex. these are the first problems to be solved in the near future. i therefore hope that the european parliament's voice on this issue will be heard and taken into account by the european commission and the eu council.
in writing. - solvit allows for the resolution of international disputes through informal online appeals. through the cooperation of the member states' administrative units, it has already helped to resolve several thousand cases over its more than 10 years of operation. complaints lodged by citizens are most often of a private nature. they concern, for example, professional qualifications or the benefits to which they are entitled. the scheme is also used by businesses, most often in vat cases. however, the percentage of companies using solvit is still quite low. in the report we adopted, we advocate the widespread use of the system, calling on the european commission to promote it actively, especially among business circles. it is also necessary to harmonise single market rules, which in many member states are still incompatible with union law, which makes it impossible to solve the problem through the solvit platform. this tool has proved its worth. we should therefore continue to support its development. an effective solvit 2.0 will allow for the handling of a wider range of stakeholders as well as more complex cases.
in writing. - solvit is an online problem-solving network for citizens and businesses to address complaints about the misapplication of internal market rules. this report is the european parliament's response to the commission's recommendations on improving solvit. parliament's proposal focuses in particular on raising awareness among citizens and businesses of the existence and functioning of solvit, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. in addition, the working methods of the solvit centres should be improved, in particular as regards communication between the reporting agents and the centres. the report also encourages solvit centres to cooperate with each other, with a particular focus on standardising procedures and services for citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal by tanja fajon for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. the abolition of the visa requirement for entry into the schengen area will bring tangible benefits both to the member states of the union and to the citizens of the countries which have been exempted from this requirement. the republic of moldova is a country that has fulfilled a number of criteria and made significant progress towards visa liberalisation. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal for the abolition of visas for moldovan citizens. i believe that the gradual introduction of visa-free travel for a growing number of third-country nationals within the european union will undoubtedly contribute to the free movement of citizens between the various countries, reduce travel costs and increase close cooperation in many fields such as economic, cultural and scientific.
in writing. - the abolition of visas for citizens of the republic of moldova is a good signal for the citizens of this country, especially in the current political situation in ukraine and crimea. as a candidate country for eu membership, moldova needs a political signal that is relevant to its internal structures, but above all to its citizens. for moldovan society, the abolition of visas is a change in the quality of life and new opportunities. the abolition of these will reduce travel costs and time, facilitate people-to-people integration and improve social, economic, cultural and scientific relations with neighbours. this is especially important for a country where there is still much to be done. and moldova has been pursuing reforms in recent years and doing everything to boost its development dynamics despite internal difficulties. it is the first eastern partnership country to have fulfilled all the conditions for visa waiver. we must send a clear signal that the union is open to moldova and its people, that we need each other.
in writing. - i support the report. however, i am in favour of a systematic simplification of the visa procedure for non-eu citizens. i also hope that croatia will become a full member of the schengen area as soon as possible. it is an economically important country in the community, very popular with poles for tourism. i'm looking forward to working as closely as possible.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur, tanja fajon, on the introduction of a simplified border control system for croatia and cyprus. the document aims to simplify the system of checks on citizens at the external borders by those states by unilaterally recognising documents considered by them to be equivalent to their national visas. they shall apply at the same time to transit through their territory and to stays on their territory of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. in the case of croatia, this request is linked to its accession to the european union in july 2013[nbsp ] and it is therefore obliged to issue national visas for the entry of third-country nationals in accordance with regulation (ec) no 539/2001. the visa facilitation system in question also applies to cyprus and consists of the unilateral recognition by that state of short-term and long-term visas and residence permits issued by the member states of the union.
mr. chairman, please! the dramatic events in ukraine demonstrate the great determination of the ukrainian people to pursue a pro-european state policy. unfortunately, in the last few months, when the fate of the association agreement was being decided, european diplomacy has also made a number of mistakes. russia's commitment to seeking a political subordination of ukraine to moscow has certainly been underestimated. i would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of this seemingly unjustified act of terror perpetrated by the representatives of the regime that has now been overthrown. i call on the european union and the governments of the member states to be as active as possible in relations with ukraine and to provide all the necessary support. i believe that the elections scheduled for may will be conducted on the basis of fully democratic principles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that, in the light of recent events, the european union should send a clear signal to ukraine that it supports its efforts to rebuild the state in the spirit of pan-european values. i support the proposal for financial support from the union to help the new democratically elected authorities to implement the necessary reforms. however, the new government must ensure that these funds are used effectively and that it is determined to implement democratic change and economic reforms, as well as to fight corruption. i also believe that the european union should propose to ukraine an action plan leading to its membership of the union. this will certainly be a long process, but the common definition of the goal of full integration is a good motivation to make the necessary, often difficult changes and to involve both sides. the acceleration of visa facilitation will also be a good signal.
mr. chairman, please! achieving full stability in iraq is proving to be extremely difficult. but the authorities in baghdad must not stop working to democratize the country. particular attention should be paid to the problems of ethnic and religious minorities, as their mutual antagonisms are the most common cause of conflict. significantly, al-qaeda's activity is still on the rise, with deadly attacks daily. i call on european diplomacy and the international community to continue to work for the proper development of the republic of iraq, including the improvement of the human rights situation.
in writing. - in iraq, we face two major threats: the unprecedented growth of al-qaeda activity and the massive persecution of christians. and those are the threats i'd like to focus on. the conflict in syria is also expanding its territorial reach into iraq. the bombings and the fighting over fallujah are just the beginning. we have no real response other than condemning the isil terrorist sponsoring states responsible for the attacks. that was missing from the resolution that was put to the vote. the second point is the situation of christians. from 10 million in 2003, there are now less than 1.2 million. this is an unimaginable, historic tragedy! the exodus from iraq is a symbol of the failure of the human rights policy of the eu as well. we have been silent because christians and jesus christ are forbidden words in this house. we didn't fight for the iraqi christians. today, they're almost gone. it is important that the resolution makes a strong reference to their situation.
mr. chairman, please! i realize i'm in the minority because i don't criticize the use of drones. the technical capabilities of these devices, including their weapons, have increased significantly in recent years. they allow for more precise targeting in remote parts of the world, which reduces the number of potential victims to an absolute minimum. of course, the victims of any use of weapons cannot be ignored. drones are now used by the militaries of at least 80 countries, as well as by many non-governmental organizations, such as hezbollah. let us not be fooled into thinking that if the community countries stop developing their unmanned aircraft programs, the problem of their use will disappear. we should focus on addressing the root causes of drone misuse, the activities of international terrorist groups.
mr. chairman, please! although the report addresses very important issues such as violence against women and children and cases of trafficking in human beings, it also contains very controversial statements. for example, i do not see the need to create additional treaty mechanisms for the enforcement of human rights in the union. i do not accept the requirement that countries suspend the adoption of legislation at the request of the european institutions. i have a similar view on the european social charter. i also disagree with the need for member states to guarantee electoral parities by law. polish practice in this area shows that citizens have great difficulty registering electoral committees because of the difficulties in meeting the parity criteria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union for 2012. in the context of this report, i would like to point out a number of disturbing trends. the first issue is violence against women. 45% of women in europe are victims of violence. this means that in the european union, more than 100 million women out of 500 million have been victims of violence, and between 1 and 2 million experience it every day. we need an eu directive on violence against women. another issue is the situation of the lgbt community. discrimination, homophobia and transphobia negatively affect the lives and decisions of lgbt people. a survey on lgbt people published by the fundamental rights agency in 2013 indicates that 47% of lgbt people felt discriminated against or harassed in the last year, and 26% were attacked or faced threats of violence because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. the lack of progress on a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment without distinction as to religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation is also a cause for concern. it is regrettable that some member states are blocking agreement on such an important issue. i also draw attention to the violation of fundamental rights in the area of immigration and asylum, freedom of the press, freedom of movement within the union and social and trade union rights.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant, which entered into force in 2004, has considerably facilitated and accelerated the enforcement of the law against accused and prosecuted persons, while guaranteeing a more efficient functioning of the judiciary at european level. the most successful aspect of the framework decision is the significant reduction in the waiting time for extradition. despite the many positive assessments of the functioning of the european arrest warrant system that has been introduced, this report highlights the need to further develop and improve it. following the implementation of that injunction, there have been a number of irregularities relating to its abuse by certain member states or to the failure to respect procedural rights of accused persons and suspects. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to oblige the european commission to draw up legislative solutions under article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular with regard to the issue of more precise definition of offences, effective control of the proportionality of decisions or the regulation of the advisory procedure. i believe that the joint development of a legal framework at union level for the european arrest warrant and its uniform application by member states will contribute to ensuring a higher level of security for union citizens in the area of criminal justice.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant (eaw) is an important european legal instrument based on the mutual recognition principle, whereby judicial decisions are executed on the basis of mutual trust. the eaw ensures our open borders are not exploited, and suspects and accused persons are brought to justice through a faster and more efficient system. however, despite an overall positive evaluation, review reports presented by the european commission point to imperfections in the functioning of the system, especially with regard to the gaps in the eaw framework decision. i can personally testify to problems with the implementation of the eaw after having aided a polish mother whose child was kidnapped by his greek father in july 2013. in this case, even though an eaw was issued, the lack of communication and cooperation between police authorities in the two eu member states created obstacles to returning the child to his mother. over five months passed until they were reunited. the current report addresses many of the concerns and it asks the european commission to present a legislative proposal within one year to remedy them. reforming the operation of the eaw is an outmost priority for maintaining its credibility and functioning, and therefore i voted to support this report.
mr. chairman, please! for 14 years, venezuela was ruled by a dictatorship led by president hugo chávez, who died last year. the regime he has now established is desperately determined to maintain tight control of the state. unfortunately, this is done with the use of force against citizens. there are many casualties. i strongly object to the actions of the venezuelan authorities. i call for an end to the use of violence against the public and for a political dialogue to begin. it would be an expression of goodwill to release political prisoners, including leopoldo lópez.
mr. chairman, please! from the polish point of view, the issue of visas to the united states remains a sensitive and still unresolved problem. many poles have families overseas, and chicago remains the largest polish center in the world. poland is one of only four member states still subject to a visa requirement. i therefore call on the relevant european institutions to take intensified action to eliminate this problem and to bring about full visa-free travel between the european union and the united states for all community citizens.
mr. chairman, please! the report deals with the essential matter of daily life. we all use cds, digital music and video players, and storage media. the problem is to ensure that the interests of authors and producers are properly protected. the rules in force in the member states in this field vary widely, which also leads to a lack of precision. this is a negative phenomenon for consumers, because it leads to huge price differences for the same items. i am in favour of improving the functioning of the licence fee system, while also stressing the need to guarantee consumer rights.
in writing. - the main objective of the report on private copying licence fees adopted today is to harmonise the collection of such fees at eu level, especially as regards their level and the way they are collected in cross-border transactions. private copying fees are fees charged for recording equipment and blank media in some member states that have introduced an exception to the right of reproduction. the european commission estimates that the total amount of royalties collected in the 23 eu countries since 2001 is more than eur 600 million. i am against charging fees that are not justified in any way. why should consumers pay extra for a copy of a previously purchased cd or video? some eu countries such as spain, the uk, ireland and luxembourg have abandoned such fees without much loss to the creative sector or artists. furthermore, the subsequent redistribution of the funds raised is still unclear, due to the significant number of intermediaries in the transactions. the competitiveness of the european market will depend on free access to digital content. to this end, it should not be limited to the collection of additional fees, of which only a negligible part will be passed on to copyright holders.
in writing. the zuber report is part of a series of reports which annually present the situation of women in different areas of life in terms of inequalities resulting from unequal treatment of women and men in the european union. the author has accurately addressed many of the important issues that women face in their daily lives. these include wage inequality, difficulties in moving up the career ladder, under-representation of women in senior positions, and lower female participation in full-time employment due to a lack of child and elderly care infrastructure. in addition, much attention has been paid to highlighting the importance of women's entrepreneurship and to proposing solutions to strengthen it. the report also addresses violence against women and persistent social stereotypes, which are a long and complex process to overcome. unfortunately, these positive elements of the report are lost despite the undoubtedly great commitment and contribution of ms zuber's work. the text is too long and too broad. it is like a comprehensive analysis of social problems, with an attempt to solve them all superficially, with the proposals contained in one document. this makes the report worthless, illegible and lacks a concrete message that indicates what urgent action should be taken to actually improve the situation of women.
rapporteur. - mr president, this is the final annual committee on petitions (peti) report of the seventh legislature of the european parliament, so it is more than just an outline of the committee’s activities in 2013. it is also an overview of the whole parliamentary term. the basic document is divided into three parts. the first part details the work of the committee and the summary of our achievements. the second and third chapters, entitled new horizons and working methods, are basically proposals for new suggestions to make the committee’s work more substantial and visible. one of these is the emphasis on collaboration with the other eu institutions and national authorities. as we all know, peti is the platform for citizens to voice their concerns, and this enables dialogue. therefore, it is very important to adopt final internal rules and to revise accordingly the rules of procedure of the european parliament to improve peti working methods. furthermore, we need clear deadlines to speed up the life cycle of petitions, but we must not forget to make the whole process more transparent and democratic. among the most important tools of the peti committee are the fact-finding visits. the revision of the rules on these is needed to introduce more efficiency and facilitate organisation. this is what we have to accomplish in the next term. as for the past, in 2013 the petitions committee was responsible for the organisation of the election of the new ombudsman, ms emily o’reilly, and dealt with a relatively higher number of fact-finding visits than in the past. the peti committee held a series of public hearings on major subjects of petitions, such as citizenship and the importance of having single registration procedures for eu citizens in the national and european elections; the hearings on the impact of the economic crisis – petitioners here have criticised the unwillingness of banks to provide investment funding for small businesses – and the hearings on the rights of disabled people and, more precisely, of blind people. the conclusions seem clear: annual dialogue between the members of the peti committee and the members of the petitions committees in the national parliaments is needed. on top of that, there is a strong recommendation for the use of new information and video facilities for future peti committee meetings which will bring further cost savings in the organisation of its hearings. as for the statistics, since 2009 about 10[nbsp ]000 petitions have been registered in the european parliament, of which about 60[nbsp ]% were declared admissible. in 2013 alone, 2[nbsp ]800 petitions were registered. i am convinced that more and more europeans will address petitions to the european parliament in the future. we need to live up to their expectations and call on the european parliament to adopt urgent measures to ensure the efficient and transparent processing of petitions. this report should be viewed not only as an achievement but also as a stepping stone towards new reforms which would allow the petitions committee to further assist citizens and to set standards for the upcoming legislature.
the next item is the report by anthea mcintyre, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the future of the european horticulture sector growth strategies 2013/2100 (ini) (a7-0048/2014).
dear colleagues, we wish our colleague ms patrão neves all the best for her health, and we hope that tomorrow she will take part in our debates and in the voting. we now continue with the debate on the report by anthea mcintyre on the future of europe’s horticulture sector – strategies for growth (2013/2100(ini)) (a7-0048/2014). pytania z sali
horticulture is an important sector of the economy agriculture a sector which not only provides food products that are important for a proper diet and thus for the health of our citizens, but also provides producers with significant revenues in domestic, national, eu and export sales. these are additional jobs because this sector - agricultural production - requires a lot of labour. finally, gardening is also the production of plants for the purpose of creating green spaces, so this sector is exceptionally wide in terms of possibilities. what can be done to develop it? creating the need for increased consumption this increases demand, and therefore gives additional income and is also important for the health of consumers; preferring more ecological production methods, and therefore using less chemicals. finally, gardening is a typical small-scale production and therefore provides additional employment. i think it's also worth investing in modern forms of production, more based on experience and scientific research.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 march 2014 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mrs véronique de keyser, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eradication of torture in the world 2013/2169 (ini) (a7-0100/2014).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 march 2014 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mrs gomes, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on saudi arabia its relations with the eu and its role in the middle east and north africa 2013/2147 (ini) (a7-0125/2014).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014.
the next item is the report by mr pavl robert kowal, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the evaluation and prioritisation of eu relations with the eastern partnership countries 2013/2149 (ini) (a7-0157/2014).
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. we imagined that this debate would be a summary, that we would be able to say what has worked in the eastern partnership, what has not worked in the last five years, and that we would say together what message we are leaving for the future. this report was really intended as a message (i would not say that it is a testament to this parliament's term). we were supposed to look commissioner füle in the eye and think about what we would do and what those who would come after us would do. it was different. history has written a little differently after the events in ukraine. i think the issues that we're addressing are not abstractions for the future, they're not wishes of politicians, they're not our dreams, but they're necessities for action. and that makes this report, which was supposed to be just a general guide, a very specific response to what's happening today. the first thing that stands out is that our legal actions towards our partners in the east will determine whether they succeed. our ability to sign an association agreement not only with ukraine, but also to sign that agreement with georgia and moldova, will determine whether the slogan, the wording "eastern partnership", will go down in history positively or negatively. we don't have much time left, we see what is happening in crimea, we know that similar actions have been taken by our great neighbor for a long time in moldova and georgia. we know how much it can cost to fail. that is why we say: we must sign the agreement now, this report calls for it, because our partners in the east must be given a legal basis to develop cooperation with us, to accept financial aid, to undertake financial cooperation, to fight corruption. today, prime minister yatsenyuk is an example: he may be balcerowicz for ukraine, he may be the man we help and change ukraine. but we remember that in 1917 there was the february revolution and after it came the great liberal politician the prince of lviv. if we don't help yatsenyuk, if we don't help the governments of georgia and moldova today, they may be facing the same fate as the prince of lviv: people will not trust them or us. we can give them that credibility. the second fundamental thing is to build the elite for the future. this should be our message, hence the idea of the eastern partnership university, hence the idea of a special college that would educate in a joint effort professors and students from the countries of the european union today and from the other part of europe that is not in the european union: georgia, armenia, belarus, ukraine, moldova, people who would read the same books, who would talk about the same topics and who would be the future when the european union no longer covers half the continent, but the whole. our political perspective is to say to the people in the east, yes, your place as citizens, as people enjoying all the rights is where we are today. we can't do it today, but we can prepare well for it. and that's why we need to form a network of like-minded people who can talk to each other and cooperate and understand each other whether god has allowed them to be born in the east or in the west of europe. another issue is energy. today, our partners in the east are in the grip of commitments and agreements from years ago. we, by diversifying the energy sources, the energy supply, can give them the freedom to act. commissioner, i don't think there's gonna be much of a debate, so i'd just like to say that i think this was a good time for us to work together. the report in question closes it to some extent. i think we are parting with the feeling that we must do everything in our power during this session and in the next ones to give those who stood on the maidan, who are waiting in tbilisi, in kishinev and in many places in the east, the hope that we will be together in the european union one day, and now we must do our job. thank you very much. thank you.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 march 2014 at 12.00 hours.
i have no doubt that money laundering is a practice that undermines citizens' trust in the law and must be firmly opposed. i believe that uniform european procedures given the increasingly international and cross-border nature of this procedure are clearly a necessary solution. however, it is equally important, in my view, to apply the principle of proportionality in this case because the obligations to include information and verification cannot be too burdensome in order not to limit the efficiency of the european payment system as an element of the internal market. i would like to point out that in the course of the work of the econ committee we have succeeded in improving the european commission's proposal in several important respects. i am referring in particular to the harmonisation of the definitions in the regulation with the parallel payment services directive. i believe that the harmonisation of the definitions of payer, payee and money transfer brings the clarity and precision required by good law and, on the other hand, allows a wide range of operations functionally similar to bank transfers, including the commonly used credit transfers, but also transactions based on pre-payment instruments, to be covered by the regulation. it should also be noted that we have extended the scope of the simplified information, taking into account the conditions resulting from the sepa standards. the information to be attributed to any transfer of funds within the union will always have to include the name of the payer. while the absence of this requirement in the commission proposal could facilitate the execution of money transfers within the union, on the other hand, the commission considered that this creates an excessive risk of using financial systems for money laundering. the absence of such a requirement could seriously hamper the monitoring of transactions by banks. in addition to these changes, we have also proposed to extend the responsibilities of intermediary payment service providers and have further specified the procedures for risk assessment and complementarity checks for payment agents. finally, as a co-rapporteur, i would like to thank both rapporteurs and the other co-rapporteurs for their efficient and effective cooperation.
the fight against organised crime, which derives its income from the most serious crimes, such as large-scale drug trafficking, arms trafficking, human trafficking and, finally, high levels of corruption, requires the use of highly effective methods in the field of tracing the flow of funds, which are then put into legal circulation. this is why this directive is so important and good, because it extends the possibilities for law enforcement authorities to take action that has made it possible to track money flows in a transparent and transparent way. it's good that we're also talking about effective intervention when it turns out that the money is coming from an illegal source, from organized crime. it is very important that the sanctions are effective so that we can apply the sanctions of confiscation of property not only directly to this money, but also the so-called extended confiscation, as we have already discussed several times in the european parliament. there is no doubt that when we look at the nature and structure of terrorist organizations, we see that their effectiveness is conditioned by a good base and financial backing. this is also good because this directive increases the capacity of law enforcement authorities to effectively counter the terrorist threats that are such a major challenge in our time.
the rapporteur of the afet advisory committee. - on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs of the european parliament, i would like to say that we have achieved two very important objectives in this report: firstly, i have recommended that the european union guarantee for external loans granted by the european investment bank be maintained at eur 30 billion. and we have succeeded in doing so, which means that we, the parliament, have succeeded in increasing this amount by 2 billion euros, which in times of crisis, in difficult budgetary times, is of great importance. i would also like to thank the commission for having accepted this proposal from parliament. it is also important that the increase of eur 2 billion will not be financed from the foreign policy funds already allocated, but will come from unused funds for other purposes. so our foreign policy options will be enhanced by this. as regards regional projects, we agreed to focus on pre-accession countries and countries covered by the neighbourhood and partnership policies. we have managed to increase these guarantees by 2 billion, including 833 million for the countries of eastern europe, the caucasus and russia, which, as you can see in the case of ukraine, will be essential to be able to attract these countries to the european union, to help them modernise and change for the better.
i would also like to refer to mr schulz's speech and recall a historical event: march is a sad month because in the year 40 stalin, the 'father of nations', decided to shoot more than 20 000 polish officers in the back of the head. in the present context, it is therefore important that europe keeps this in mind.
madam president, i do not think we voted for amendment no 45. could you check?
in writing. - lessons learned from the recent economic, financial and debt crises have led to gradual reforms of a number of eu rules. among other things, new systems of surveillance of budgetary and economic policies and a new budgetary timetable were introduced. the new rules (introduced by the sixth, twelfth and stability, coordination and governance treaties) are based on the european semester and the eu's policy calendar. this integrated system provides clearer rules, better coordination of national policies throughout the year, regular monitoring of the situation and faster sanctions for breaches. this makes it easier for member states to meet their budgetary and reform commitments, and the economic and monetary union is on a stronger footing.
in writing. - we want to create better conditions for new jobs. that is why it is so important to extend the agreement establishing a free trade area between the united states and the european union. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) will be the broadest free trade agreement in the history of bilateral, regional and multilateral relations.
in writing. - the issue of biodiversity and endangered species is of great importance to many sectors of the european union. the commission proposal deals mainly with access to genetic resources. the amendments to the definition should be aligned with the nagoya protocol. the need for full transparency. the future use of genetic resources should be addressed.
in writing. - i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the egf in spain to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in the comunidad valenciana. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering, as in this case, from the consequences of the economic crisis and the major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation. the fund has so far proved to be a very useful instrument in helping redundant workers in european firms in difficulty, often with a view to their reintegration into the world of work.
in writing. - today's vote on the report gives the green light to launch the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in spain. the request concerns 300 exemptions in 198 small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the textile sector in the comunidad valenciana region during the period from 1 november 2012 to 1 august 2013. the egf funding (eur 840 000) will be used for a coordinated package of personalised services to help 300 redundant workers in the textile sector and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the decreases were due to major structural changes in world trade linked to globalisation. this is the first mobilisation of the egf in 2014.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund will help companies making collective redundancies provide individual support for redundant workers. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a financial support for redundant workers. the egf may provide financial resources for redundant workers. it is a financial instrument of the european union which was set up in 2006 to provide support to persons benefiting from exemptions resulting from major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation, where these exemptions have a significant impact on the regional or local economy. under the derogation until 31 december 2011, support may also be granted to workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - the european commission proposes to replace the 12 existing legislative directives governing the production and distribution of plant reproductive material with a single regulation. the aim is to ensure that the material is of adequate quality and that users can make informed, rational choices when procuring it. unfortunately, the ec's plans are causing concern amongst those who use reproductive material. during the consultations, many member states have acknowledged that they are satisfied with the existing rules, as the specific nature of the use of reproductive material requires a very different approach in each case. moreover, replacing the provisions with a single act would most likely have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. in the committee on agriculture and rural development, we tabled over 1400 amendments to the draft report, drawing attention, among other things, to the european commission's idea that it could implement new legislative elements through delegated acts at a later stage. at a time when we do not know what the future regulations governing the market for reproductive material might look like, we are simply not able to accept such proposals. we are rational and listen to the voice of our citizens, and we therefore vote to reject the commission's proposal altogether.
in writing. - the draft regulation on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material presented by the european commission was far from what the public expected from the outset. today we have given a strong signal by rejecting the commission's legislative proposal. the material used for plant reproduction requires complex regulation. the rules are now scattered across dozens of different pieces of legislation, creating a patchwork of articles that make it difficult for users of reproductive material to work. however, i have doubts about the logic of consolidating these provisions in the form of a regulation. i believe that the european commission should present new regulations in the form of a directive, thus giving member states more room to implement appropriate solutions, given the specific nature of the use of reproductive material in a given country and the organisational structure of the institutions responsible for its supervision. finally, at the agri and envi committees, i persuaded a number of members to table together some 100 amendments to exclude forest reproductive material from the scope of the proposed regulation. it is important to know that in countries like poland in particular, the forestry sector is governed by different laws and processes reproductive material in a completely different way than agriculture. it also has efficient management and control systems in place. that's why i think it should be outside the scope of the law on reproductive material.
in writing. - a brief history of the draft regulation shows that the environment of farmers, hobbyists and environmental organisations can provide meps, who rarely deal with seeds on a daily basis, with sufficient factual arguments to make sensible decisions. however, the debate on seed regulation will not end soon, and the fight for the rights of small seed producers and the preservation of biodiversity will continue. i hope that the commission and the members of the european parliament will not go back to the ill-advised idea of regulating everything that is still natural, including seeds and farmers' rights to use them.
in writing. - the european commission recommends that the member states of the european union reduce administrative expenditure. however, the savings do not apply to the eu institutions, which are increasing employment even in times of crisis. the european commission employs the most people. the 27 directorates-general (which we can call the equivalent of ministries) employ almost 33 000 civil servants. in the area of economic affairs, employment has increased by almost one third since the start of the crisis. the largest increase in employment in the commission was in 2009 - 41%c. as employment increases, so does administrative expenditure. in 2008, eu bureaucracy cost €6.4 billion, and this year it is expected to cost €8.4 billion. half of that money is from the administration's payroll, which hasn't been cut since the crisis. the commission staff member's salary starts at eur 31 000 per year and can go up to eur 220 000. this is supplemented by an allowance of 16%, among others, of the basic equipment if the work requires a move.
in writing. - serbia, despite its history with the ottoman empire and its religious ties with russia, is a country closely linked to european civilization, so it is natural that a stabilisation and association agreement should be created between serbia and the eu. this is particularly important in the current geopolitical situation and during the crimean crisis. it is important that countries that are not yet members of the union feel the strength and support of the european union. we need to be more open and engaged to build a strong and secure europe. only then can we guarantee peace and development for the entire continent. the most important thing to consider is trade cooperation, which will be the best support for a country in crisis and still struggling with the echoes of war. these are our neighbors we have to take care of. otherwise, they'll look elsewhere for help.
in writing. - following the dayton peace agreement in 1995, the european union formulated its policy towards the western balkans. the commitment to rebuild the region, to work to overcome tensions and conflicts and to integrate the western balkans into european integration processes was declared. from the outset, the so-called regional approach, agreed by the eu general affairs council in february 1996, has been an important element of eu policy. this meant that the european union would not differentiate its policy towards the individual balkan states, but would primarily encourage them to improve their relations with each other, especially in the political, economic and social spheres. however, the assumptions adopted have not become the basis for an effective eu policy. in addition, the events in kosovo in 1999, the gradual reduction of us and nato involvement in the balkans and the ineffectiveness of humanitarian aid have led to the need to develop new solutions. the stability pact for south-eastern europe was signed on 10 june 1999 and involves more than 40 countries, including the european commission, nato, the osce and the g8. its main objectives are: to initiate a process of systemic transformation in the region, to establish good neighbourly relations between the countries of the region, to shape civil society, to develop economic cooperation based on market economy principles and to remove restrictions on trade. the european union has taken direct control of the implementation of the principles of the pact.
in writing. - the question of appropriate harmonisation of legislation is of the utmost importance. the introduction of consistent technical rules should only concern those areas where it is essential to achieve the objectives set out in those rules. the european council, in its conclusions of june 2009, endorsed the establishment of a single rulebook for financial services, to which regulations and implementing technical standards should also contribute. as regards technical standards, it should also be ensured that supervisory experts are involved in the process of their development and evaluation, given the need to draw on their expertise. not all requirements in union legislative acts are fully harmonised, and many are not in line with the precautionary principle. they therefore require additional time and attention, as does the specification of the conditions for the application of certain requirements. it is necessary to seek to eliminate situations where they constitute an obstacle for member states for whatever reason, for example in terms of access to additional information. more stringent requirements are not in themselves a more reliable and accurate solution. regulations and implementing technical standards should, on the other hand, clearly define the scope for action by member states in specific areas and indicate clearly whether discretion is provided for and allowed therein.
in writing. - the new year of 2014 has been a boom for the european union's banking system. this year will mark a historic milestone the european central bank will start to exercise banking supervision over credit institutions based in the euro area. i am attaching a diagram below which shows, of course in a very simplified way, the location and shape of european banking supervision. the european system of financial supervisors (esfs) comprises the competent supervisory authorities of the member states and three supervisory authorities responsible for supervising the three segments of the eu financial market. the european banking authority (eba), the european securities and markets authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority are the latter. they shall form the joint committee of the european supervisory authorities (esas). within the european system of financial supervision, macroprudential supervision is carried out by the european systemic risk board (esrb). the main purpose of the european banking authority (eba) is to exchange information, coordinate the activities of national supervisory authorities and harmonise supervisory practices.
in writing. - according to the united nations, money laundering from illegal sources may account for nearly three percent of global gdp. this phenomenon is increasing year by year, and it is not limited to one country. criminals make various attempts to conceal their funds and then use them to finance further crimes, including terrorist attacks. i am glad that the european union is putting strong emphasis on stopping this kind of activity. this regulation contains provisions on the specific information required for transfers of funds exceeding eur 1 000. this should translate into a reduction in illicit money flows, benefiting the economy, the financial sector and, above all, society.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal for a report on the information accompanying the transfer of funds. we have adopted the proposal at first reading, as amended. the importance and need for data transparency in the field of transfers of funds and financial matters more generally increasingly requires that the relevant legislation be able to meet the challenges that arise and the importance of protecting the interests of citizens to the maximum extent possible.
in writing. - the regulation lays down rules for payment service providers on the transmission of information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment chain in order to prevent crime, detect money laundering and terrorist financing and to better coordinate the activities of law enforcement authorities in the member states. the introduction of standardised procedures for financial institutions and payment service providers is essential to prevent money laundering, which costs the budget many billions of euros a year. in its report, the united nations office on drugs and crime (unodc) estimated that the flow of money laundering in the world today amounts to about 2.7% of global gdp.
in writing. - collecting payment information helps to trace the source of funds in criminal proceedings. in the face of ever-changing patterns of criminal activity, we need to tighten our regulations. payment intermediaries will be required to verify the data provided by customers and to retain the information required by this regulation for up to five years. in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the regulation, the relevant public authorities in poland will be able to impose a fine of up to eur 5 million or 10% of the turnover.
in writing. - the legislative package on anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism is a response to the challenges faced by member states in this area. the organised nature of this criminal activity requires decisive and systematic action. this directive lays down rules applicable to companies, trusts, mutual insurance companies or foundations which may be used for money laundering. such institutions are often used to give credibility to the proceeds of crime. the planned transparency measures, such as the direct exposure list and the national central public registers of beneficial owners, should lead to a reduction in money laundering.
in writing. - in view of technological developments and globalisation, efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing should be systematic. our actions should seal and unify the financial systems in the member states in order to protect the national system from destabilisation. the phenomenon of money laundering and terrorist financing has an international dimension and therefore the solutions and measures adopted at community level should be subject to systematic review and to processes of harmonisation with those adopted by international bodies in order to ensure their high effectiveness.
in writing. - given that new legal regulations in the field of anti-money laundering and countering terrorist financing are already in force, it is worthwhile to reflect on the basic assumptions of these regulations and their practical effects on the institutions subject to them. this is all the more important as the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing has been seen in recent years as an effective way of combating crime. however, this is only one side of the coin; on the other hand, it is also an action that seriously interferes with civil rights and freedoms and generates costs and numerous burdensome obligations for entities covered by the scope of this regulation. without questioning the appropriateness of introducing certain solutions in poland since a certain legal situation is already a factual situation i would like to suggest practical ways of dealing with the new legal reality that has arisen as a result of the implementation of directive 2005/60/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 26 october 2005 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing into the polish legal system.
in writing. - the trilateral discussions aim to ensure the continuity of the operations of the european investment bank until 2020. it is important to recognise the need to ensure consistency of eib-funded programmes with the national and regional strategies of beneficiary countries. i hope that the european investment bank will be a support for the eastern partnership countries, especially ukraine. investments in these countries will bring them significantly closer to the european union, both economically, in terms of infrastructure, and politically.
in writing. - parliament has been monitoring the eib for years and has taken steps to improve its functioning. the eib's role as an instrument for external intervention contributing to the promotion of european values and interests in the world, as well as to the strengthening of international cooperation and development action, deserves particular attention. these functions may be reduced by cuts in the eu's long-term budget, which will affect all eu policies and, in the case of the eib, will most likely result in a reduction in investment. the bank's annual lending budget is to be reduced by an average of between eur 4,2 billion and eur 3,6 billion. the eib's lending and borrowing procedures should be treated with all the greater care in view of the reduced resources. the final beneficiary of the financing should be clearly identified, which will allow the establishment of a list of final borrowers that can be made public. the issue of detailed and accurate reporting and the pursuit of clarity of procedures and further deepening of cooperation between the commission and the eeas should also be emphasised.
in writing. - genetic resources play an increasingly important role in many sectors of the economy, including plant and animal breeding, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals. many of these resources come from key biodiversity areas in developing countries. the lack of clear rules has led some countries to believe that their rights have been violated by foreign scientists. this is called bio-piracy". in some cases, this lack of trust has led to restrictive conditions that impede access to genetic resources. today's proposals aim to address these concerns while increasing the opportunities for research, development and innovation in nature-related products and services. a level playing field for all users of genetic resources in the eu should be particularly beneficial for smes and publicly funded non-commercial scientific research, and should increase opportunities for international cooperation.
in writing. - the motion passed today is very important for improving road safety. it is intended to help halve the number of road fatalities by 2020. the report provides, inter alia, for mandatory eu-wide testing of scooters and motorcycles, for increasing the frequency of periodic roadworthiness tests for certain categories of vehicles, and for setting minimum levels of skill and training for diagnostics. it is obvious that the proposed measures must be proportionate to the objectives to be achieved, since the solutions must be balanced. the impact of this proposal on citizens and businesses also had to be examined in order to avoid unnecessary financial and administrative burdens. i supported the report because i agree that extending the range of vehicles subject to roadworthiness testing to include scooters and motorcycles is the right direction to take, as they represent a higher risk group among users. it is also important that the technical requirements and test methods set out in the annexes are minimum, i.e. that member states can maintain existing standards or introduce higher standards, as the report also states.
in writing. - every year more than 30[nbsp ]000 people die on europe’s roads. reducing this number is of crucial interest to me. one of the measures which should be taken is to improve the roadworthiness of vehicles. this report will certainly help to increase the safety of road transport, therefore i supported the rapporteur’s approach and voted in favour.
in writing. - the obligation to record the condition of the meters during the technical inspection, introduced at the beginning of the year, was intended to eliminate the practice of turning them. but for now, it's fiction, because it depends on the diagnosis and its reliability. cars intended for secondary sale are particularly subject to surveillance and information on actual mileage should be included in the driver's certificate and the station register. however, due to the imperfect revision guidelines, there are possibilities to 'bypass' the regulation. the procedures in case of detection of irregularities should also be clarified. however, the validity of the amendment is not in question.
in writing. - i support the proposal to change the rules of periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles. these changes are intended to improve road safety and the environment. the vehicle must meet all the requirements for approval before it can be placed on the market. each member state must first register any vehicle which obtains a single european approval on the basis of documents issued by the vehicle manufacturer. the proposal, compared with the 1999 eu legislation, provides for a better definition of the place of registration of vehicles and the possibility of withdrawal and cancellation of registration. it also explicitly stressed that the validity of the technical examination should be mutually recognised by all member states. such a clear solution would reduce costs for vehicle users and reduce the administrative burden.
in writing. - this report is part of a larger roadworthiness package to improve road safety and environmental protection. the purpose of vehicle registration is to allow a vehicle to be used on the road. it is important that a vehicle meets the relevant type-approval or individual approval requirements before it is placed on the market, in order to ensure an optimal level of safety and environmental performance. i supported the report because it clarifies the definition of the place of registration of vehicles and introduces the possibility of withdrawing and cancelling registration until a roadworthiness test has been carried out with a positive result. it is also crucial for the internal market that the validity of a technical examination is mutually recognised by all member states. the proposal also sets out new requirements for electronic registration databases, tracking of roadworthiness test results, re-registration and recall of vehicles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs savisaar-toomast's report in order to improve road safety while at the same time protecting the environment. as regards the registration of the vehicle, it must meet all the type-approval parameters that ensure an optimum level of safety and environmental standards. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - this report is strongly connected with the roadworthiness tests for commercial and motor vehicles and their trailers, therefore i supported this report as well and voted in favour. i believe that a clear registration procedure for vehicles in europe will help the sector to circumvent fraud or misuse of registration certificates.
in writing. - the registration certificate issued by the eu countries is not subject to translation insofar as it contains the codes used in this certificate, as defined in annex 3 of the regulation of the minister of infrastructure on the registration and marking of vehicles. in the case of a historic vehicle, a declaration by the owner of the vehicle, under penalty of criminal liability for false representation, that he does not have a registration certificate, is accepted instead of a registration certificate.
in writing. - while promoting mobility and freedom of movement for citizens, the eu institutions must also be committed to improving road and vehicle safety across the eu. strengthening and harmonising the union rules on roadworthiness tests and roadworthiness tests will increase the effectiveness of roadworthiness tests by reducing the number of vehicles that do not meet roadworthiness requirements, which varies from 0,3% to 63%, depending on the country. the technical measures taken should be functional with appropriate training of the staff performing roadworthiness tests. a clear legal framework is also needed to define the responsibility of undertakings for the roadworthiness of the vehicles they use.
in writing. - it's a matter of road safety. opinions should be given on the need for annual reviews rather than using empirical data to inform that safety is affected. accidents caused by poor engineering are a small fraction of all accidents. it should be borne in mind that road traffic law is a matter for the member states. the regulation should not apply to motorcycles and scooters.
in writing. - i supported mr cramer's report because the proposal simplifies regulation (ec) no 91/2003 by establishing common rules for the production of rail transport statistics in the european union. the data collected which will be useful for statistics relate to freight and passengers, the railway network, traffic flows, accidents, number and type of trains, bicycle transport, number of new silent freight wagons and retrofitting with composite brake linings. in particular, greater attention should be paid to rail infrastructure data and more variables should be included for the measurement of passenger transport, with a particular focus on cross-border links, which should play a central role in the transport policy of the european union.
in writing. - as a shadow rapporteur for the s&d group, i was strongly involved in this report. professional and coherent statistics are important not only for researchers but also for the sector which depends on public subsidies, at least for rail passenger services. calculating how much taxpayers’ money is needed for one train kilometre of public services by rail is therefore of great interest to the competent authorities and for decision-makers. even if one key issue could not yet be supported by the transport committee earlier – the inclusion of seat kilometres to the statistics – i still believe that this report is a step forward, therefore i supported this report and voted in favour.
in writing. - the report adopted today is an important step towards the establishment of a fully functioning public administration. electronic invoicing in public procurement, as well as electronic procurement procedures in general, should be supported so that most formalities can be completed electronically. this is particularly important for smes, as it is cheaper and easier, and thus reduces administrative and financial barriers for companies, and in particular for small companies. in the area of electronic invoicing, many member states have already introduced relevant standards. unfortunately, they are different, which makes it difficult to exchange invoices across borders. this also creates legal uncertainty, as traders cannot be sure that their invoice will be accepted. i supported the report because, although it does not introduce full harmonisation, it does recommend the creation of a european standard to achieve compatibility between different standards. this should make access to public procurement markets even easier. the difficulties in question constitute a serious barrier to market access. the lack of interoperability of systems makes companies reluctant to participate in cross-border tenders, which reduces competition and hinders the functioning of the public procurement market.
in writing. - the challenges of current technology require us to give serious thought to the need to make payment methods more efficient, secure and transparent, especially in public procurement procedures. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is the first step towards electronic invoicing in public procurement. the transposition of data will have to be carefully monitored and, of course, also taken into account in important public procurement processes. however, i think it is very important and necessary to start this process, which can be considered a genuine process of modernisation.
in writing. - the well-known benefits of e-invoicing have led several eu member states to require e-invoicing for public procurement. however, these bottom-up initiatives are dependent on national standards, most of which are not interoperable, which in turn can lead to an unnecessary complication of the procedure and an unnecessary increase in costs for companies wishing to participate in cross-border procurement. e-invoicing in europe is still very limited, accounting for only 4% to 15% of all invoices. in accordance with the commission legislative proposal presented in june 2013, a new european standard for e-invoicing will be developed by the european committee for standardisation (cen). the e-invoice is a necessary step towards the introduction of electronic public procurement procedures in the eu. concrete changes in this area will allow for more efficient use of public funds. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. - e-invoicing is an important step towards electronic document circulation in public administration (e-government) in europe one of the priorities of the digital agenda and can bring significant benefits to both the economy and the environment. the commission estimates that the adoption of e-invoicing in public procurement across the eu could bring savings of €2.3 billion. michel barnier, commissioner for internal market and services, said: ensuring that public administrations in the eu are modern and efficient is one of the european commission's priorities. the transition to e-procurement, and in particular to e-invoicing, can bring significant savings and facilitate the functioning of both governments and thousands of businesses operating in the internal market. the switch from paper documents to fully automated invoicing can reduce the cost of invoicing from eur 30-50 to eur 1. it's a good way to get the savings you need in this economy. as the public sector is the largest payer in the eu, it should play a leading role in promoting e-invoicing.
in writing. - regular monitoring and study of farm structures and agricultural production methods is the key to the development of agriculture not only in the european union but also worldwide. therefore, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1166/2008, an agricultural census, representative surveys and two surveys on agricultural production methods were carried out in 2010. it is also necessary to provide for the co-financing of the second representative study in 2016, but in accordance with proposal 2013/0367, a new financial framework for it should be established for the budgetary period starting in 2014, taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu and the committee supporting the european commission should be amended. in the draft report, parliament endorses the above proposal, which changes the supporting committee to the european statistical system committee, sets the overall financial framework at eur 20.5 million and the maximum co-financing for croatia at eur 500 000, bearing in mind that the eu reimbursement cannot exceed 75% of the cost of the survey carried out. this study will contribute both to the analysis of current developments in agriculture and to the preparation of forecasts and legal regulations for the coming years. by providing such a large financial contribution to research, the european union is actively contributing to the development of the agricultural sector in national economies.
in writing. - knowledge of the state and changes in farm structure, as well as of the means of agricultural production used and developed, is very important for the eu institutions. collecting, analysing and compiling data across europe takes a lot of time and effort on the part of many people. it is therefore all the more important that the result of this work is of high quality. updated farm registers and data collected on the implementation of rural development measures are an important element in the production of comparable data on agricultural activity. in order to ensure the highest possible accuracy of the data collected and the statistics produced, the conditions and procedures for their collection should be taken into account. in order to ensure a smooth functioning of the work, the confidential statistical data provided under the regulation should be adequately protected, and it should also be ensured that they are not unlawfully disclosed or used for other purposes. it should also be borne in mind that these surveys are very costly and that the improvement of the methodology used to carry them out and the reduction of the burden on respondents as far as possible should be one of the main criteria for their conduct. however, changes in these aspects should be made with particular regard to the quality of the data obtained throughout the process, as they will be the basis for subsequent decisions that will determine the future of the european agricultural sector.
in writing. - the aim of the r-sgr is to obtain high quality data necessary for the development of cap tools and evaluation, as well as national policies. the information obtained will be used, among others, for: • monitoring changes in the structure of agricultural holdings; • preparing a cross-sectional characterisation of agricultural holdings; • developing a typology of agricultural holdings (definition of agricultural type and economic size); • assessing the environmental impact of agriculture; • describing rural areas; • comparing polish agricultural holdings with those of other eu countries.
in writing. - the systematic introduction of appropriate legal standards is necessary to ensure clear rules for trade in goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products. the main objective of the proposal described in the report was to bring the provisions, which have been in force in their unchanged form since 1993, into line with the standards and regulations of the european union and the current market situation. the rapporteur proposes technical solutions to allow regulation by means of delegated acts, the functions of which have been defined in the treaty of lisbon this will allow for a sound legal framework to be established for the management of the transit duties and quotas provided for in free trade agreements and to adapt them to current commercial practices. it also stresses the need to reintroduce the amendment on the single common organisation of the markets, which is intended to guarantee that imported goods meet quality and environmental standards, which is crucial for ensuring stability in the agricultural sector. the issue of export refunds, which will be applied only in exceptional cases, is also raised. this is in line with the provisions agreed with the world trade organisation and guarantees the maintenance of a free market. the amendments to those provisions will make the union law on goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products more understandable to farmers, who will thus be able to take better care of themselves and their holdings.
in writing. - access to food is a very important issue, the condition of which directly affects the quality of life of eu citizens. it is of particular importance for the millions of europeans at risk of social exclusion and facing material hardship. the issue of safety and stability of local, regional and national food chains should therefore be taken very seriously in order to counter adverse factors. this includes looking at the negative effects of some of the trade agreements that have been concluded in the past in agriculture and food production. it is necessary to effectively counter the manifestations of food safety infringements, which should be met by an increase in customs duties on products that do not comply with union environmental, social and animal welfare standards. in the current delicate economic situation, we need more effective tools to assess the impact of imports of certain goods based on eu environmental and health standards. this also requires efficient communication with the member states, the competent authorities in third countries, the european parliament and the provision of adequate information to citizens. it is also necessary to ensure a uniform framework and conditions under which this regulation is implemented and to ensure the efficient management of export refund certificates and administrative work procedures in this regard.
in writing. - organic farming is a management method that reduces dependence on external inputs by stimulating biological production mechanisms within the farm. organic farming radically reduces the use of industrially produced or processed products, even if they are analogues of substances found in nature. the aim of this system is to mimic processes in natural ecosystems both in terms of quality (type of substances put into circulation) and quantity (intensity level). there is no universally accepted definition of organic farming, and the system has been defined since its inception (around 1970) by criteria, i.e. the means and methods of production allowed.
in writing. - this report on the activities of the european investment bank addresses many of the key areas of the institution's operations which have an indirect impact on economic growth. the expenditure related to the europe 2020 strategy requires a significant cash flow, which is obtained, inter alia, from long-term loans from the eib. valuable actions for smes should be high on the list of eib-funded actions. i hope that the commitment to improving innovation, cohesion and job creation will ensure sustained and stronger economic growth in the european union. i commend the bank's capital increase in 2012 which will allow for more lending.
in writing. - in a difficult year, 2011, the european investment bank continued to fulfil its mission. our investments have supported actions for sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment; from athens to zaragoza, we have served the european economy, while in non-eu countries we have contributed to the union's objectives.
in writing. once again, left-wing groups and lgbt lobbies have tried to push gender ideas under the guise of non-discrimination. it should be noted that the report is contrary to the political position adopted by parliament on the estreli report, but above all it is contrary to eu treaty law, the charter of fundamental rights and the case law of the grand chamber of the court of justice of the eu. because i am against abortion and the gender lobby, i voted to reject the report.
in writing. - the current report on equality between men and women in 2012 forms parliament’s response to the european commission’s report on the same subject, which is based on the strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. this year, parliament’s report underlines a number of urgent problems and issues caused by gender inequality against the background of the economic crisis and austerity measures. it highlights the fact that the employment rate for women in europe aged between 20-64 stood at 62.4[nbsp ]%, compared to 74.6[nbsp ]% for men; that wage inequality was around 16.2[nbsp ]% on average in the eu; and that, with a youth unemployment rate of 23.1[nbsp ]%, more young women are finding it difficult to access the labour market. parliament was today given an opportunity to address some of these core problems. unfortunately, this opportunity has been overlooked, thanks to the successful campaigns of conservative and right-wing groups to reject the report. that is to be deplored. real gender equality cannot exist alongside these policies. taking into consideration socio-economic issues that disproportionally effect women and prioritising the policies to tackle these issues is the only way to attain a fair, modern and equal society.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i believe that it has been ideologized and, with the elements introduced, distorted from its original intention. of course, my group is pushing for more and more gender equality in the european union, and this was also reflected in the many votes in favour and in the reports drawn up by our members. however, i believe that much broader issues are at stake in this text, issues related to family values, which for us are not negotiable.
in writing. - equality between women and men is one of the main objectives of the european union's social policy. each year, the european commission reports on progress in this area on the basis of the 2010-2015 strategy for equality between women and men. in its 2012 report, the european commission placed particular emphasis on the aspects of women's employment and the so-called barcelona targets relating to childcare and women's representation at the highest decision-making levels, as well as on combating violence against women, as issues that should be particularly monitored. i voted for this report and i very much regret that it was rejected by the ep today by only a few votes.
in writing. - in today's vote, i voted against mrs zuber's report on gender equality in 2012. the weaknesses of this report have outweighed its positive elements and i therefore believe that this document should not be adopted. annual reports on the situation of women as a result of unequal treatment in different spheres of life compared to men are a very important political signal from meps. in this document, we summarise the measures already taken to reduce disparities and differences, we highlight the effectiveness of these initiatives, but the european parliament also makes recommendations on the actions that need to be taken in the future by both the member states and the eu institutions. mrs. zuber's report is too long and too broad, too chaotic. in one document, she tried to address a wide range of social issues superficially, but not necessarily from the perspective of gender differences. this makes the report less valuable, less readable and lacks a concrete message that indicates what urgent action needs to be taken to actually improve the situation of women.
in writing. - gender equality is not only a matter of diversity and social justice, but also a prerequisite for achieving the goals of sustainable economic growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. investing in gender equality policies results in higher female employment rates, higher female share of gdp, tax revenues and sustainable fertility rates. it is important that gender equality remains at the core of the eu 2020 strategy, as equality between women and men has proven to be a lasting solution to old and new challenges. gender equality policy should therefore be seen as a long-term investment, not a short-term cost.
in writing. - we need harmonisation in the eu, or at least agreement on common rules, because now there are too many different rules, too many country-specific exceptions and too many interpretations. the member states and the ec should have a coherent system to avoid arbitrary decisions (by individual countries or supervisors) and breaches of competition rules. the whole system will continue to be supervised by national authorities.
in writing. - the need for openness and transparency in the contracting process has been increasingly discussed in recent years. the value of government procurement on a global level is estimated at 9.5 trillion dollars. however, even in countries with highly developed transparency laws, contracts are often opaque and do not allow for accountability of those in power. in africa and the european union alone, the cost of corruption and mismanagement is estimated at $150 trillion.
in writing. - although the format of the adopted report on the outcome of the committee on petitions' activities in 2013 is not entirely satisfactory to me, its content nevertheless underlines the important role that this committee plays in the development of democratic principles, such as increasing citizen participation in the eu decision-making process and transparency of procedures to ensure that eu law is fully respected. the committee on petitions has devoted more time to debates on environmental issues than to any other sector of activity. in this respect, also thanks to the mission to lower silesia, it was possible for the first time to have the regional authorities hear the complaints of the petitioners against the violation of the result of the referendum on the plans to create a brown coal mine in the legnica deposit. unfortunately, this passage was rejected by the rapporteur, which i do not understand and for which i deeply regret. overall, however, the tone of the report shows the impact of our work in the committee on petitions, where in 2013 the total number of registered complaints approached three thousand, an increase of over 45% compared to 2012, which may be due to the increased legislative powers of the european parliament. we've processed about 1,000 petitions, and only 199 of them have been considered and closed. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur that the administrative capacity should be strengthened urgently and that clear deadlines for the examination of petitions in the european parliament should be enforced.
in writing. - the increase in the number of petitions to the european parliament by more than 45% compared to 2012 shows that eu citizens are becoming more aware of their rights. the petition is also a tool to increase citizens' confidence in the european union, which has been torn apart by the severe financial crisis. i have informed citizens on many occasions about the possibility of petitioning parliament, and i therefore welcome the plans to develop the online portal of the committee on petitions, which will allow better information about this intervention tool at eu level. citizens should be clearly informed of the scope of the legal competence of the committee on petitions and the reasons for the closure or rejection of petitions should be clearly stated. i welcome the attention drawn by the committee on petitions to the irregularities linked to the non-compliance with the principle of free movement in the eu single market and share the view that more should be done in terms of coordination and alignment of the legislation of individual member states in this area.
in writing. - petitions are dealt with by one of the european parliament's standing committees the committee on petitions. if the petition is found admissible, the committee on petitions may take such action as it considers appropriate in relation to the subject matter of the petition. these may include: • presenting a report to parliament for a vote in plenary; • forwarding petitions to other committees which may take them into account in their legislative work; • requesting the european commission to carry out a preliminary inquiry into the compatibility of the legislative acts covered by the petition with eu law. but the petition does not provide for the possibility of obtaining compensation. the european parliament also does not take any binding decisions on petitions.
in writing. - european horticulture has a huge potential which is not fully exploited, as it faces many obstacles which appropriate legislation at international level can remove or at least minimise. the sector generates close to 1/5 (18%) of the total value of agricultural production in the union, using very little land. with appropriate support, especially from the legal side, it can contribute to enhancing the eu's competitiveness on global markets. horticulture is highly sensitive to weather conditions, which is particularly evident in the context of climate change; in addition, the economic crisis has reduced consumption, reduced the supply of fresh fruit and vegetables and, consequently, reduced investment in the development of the sector. plantation owners are also reluctant to join producer organisations, as a result of the lack of support for such initiatives in the member states. recently, the impact of certain neonicotinoid insecticides on the health of bees and therefore also on plants has also been discussed. we need more, more detailed research and analysis here. investments in training, appropriate study pathways and advisory services will certainly pay dividends in the future, providing skilled workers, while supporting local production and encouraging greater consumption of fruit and vegetables are actions that will benefit both producers and consumers.
in writing. - the report on the future of the european horticultural sector is a noteworthy document, above all because it expresses the european parliament's concern for the horticultural sector, which as such retains its distinctive characteristics against the background of the european agricultural production policy framework. the report contains a number of statements that cannot be substantiated. first, it calls for the current restrictions on the use of certain neonicotinoids, which have recently been banned by the european commission because of their negative effects on bee populations, to be reconsidered. i think it's way too early to go back to this. i am also opposed to the opening up of a wider field for the use of chemical plant protection products beyond the standards laid down in european legislation. while i am opposed to any promotion of gmos in european agriculture and horticulture, i am convinced that the eu needs a bold and comprehensive discussion on gmos, rather than simply avoiding the subject. instead of introducing gmos back door in reports of this kind, we should consider the whole problem in all its aspects and establish uniform rules throughout the eu. in view of the many controversies and shortcomings of the document, i have decided to vote against the report as presented.
in writing. - horticulture is a very important sector, not only because of its significant share in the total value of agricultural production in the eu (18%), but also because of its health and cultural aspects. many europeans pay particular attention to the safety and quality of the products they consume, and they want to be able to buy them as easily as possible. uncertainty in supply chains has led to small producers and breeders refraining from investing or significantly reducing their investments. this has resulted in a decline in production efficiency and global competitiveness. the establishment of appropriate supply chain codes of conduct and the strengthening of the legislative framework in each member state could provide an incentive for producers to develop and become more active. they should be encouraged to innovate, to become more competitive and to be dynamic within the producer organisation. the horticultural sector has much to gain from the use of available genetic technologies. there is also considerable potential for precision farming. producers in the horticultural sector still rarely belong to producer organisations and associations, and tailored incentives to use business support or advice can help them to formulate a plan of action and development so that they can continue to provide healthy and high quality food to europeans while creating their own jobs and livelihoods.
in writing. - one of the first signs of change is, as a report by euromonitor international on the horticulture industry shows, the diversification of distribution channels. the garden producers in eastern europe have chosen it to compensate for possible business failures and to support their image. this also applies to domestic producers, who can now reach both buyers in larger urban agglomerations and customers in the periphery of cities. the diversification of distribution channels, while increasing competition on the market, ensures that garden centres' customers always receive products of the highest quality. this is a way of deterring international diy networks from taking over the market. in most european countries, garden centres have faced a serious challenge. they had to contend with international diy networks with powerful foreign capital. a large proportion of retail gardening establishments have emerged from this confrontation with a strong hand through, among other things, modernisation, expansion, professional service and offering customers a wide range of high quality products.
in writing. - torture is defined in article 1 of the convention on the prohibition of torture as 'any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted on a person for the purpose of obtaining from him or her or a third person information or a confession, of punishing him or her for an act he or she has committed or is suspected of having committed, or of intimidating or coercing him or her or a third person, or for any other purpose arising from any form of discrimination'. freedom from torture is one of the most fundamental human rights. the convention indicates that no exceptional circumstances, such as a state of war, the threat of war, lack of internal political stability or any other exceptional situation, may justify the use of torture. despite the many laws and conventions that have been established, we still encounter inhuman treatment that violates human dignity and personal freedom. and yet, it is taken for granted that freedom from torture is absolute freedom, with no exception to the rule. therefore, this inhuman treatment of human beings deserves to be condemned unequivocally and unanimously as a manifestation of the barbarism of the 21st century.
in writing. - i voted in favor of the report on the eradication of torture in the world (2013/2169(ini)). this report clearly outlines the importance of eradicating torture and the importance of implementing the necessary means to do so. as the report states, the response to the change in the eu guidelines in 2012 should ‘reflect a holistic policy approach, including the promotion of an adequate legislative and judicial framework for the effective prevention and prohibition of torture, monitoring of places of detention, efforts to address impunity, and the full and effective rehabilitation of torture victims, backed up by credible, consistent and coherent action’. furthermore, the eu is and has been the beacon of light in protecting human rights and has abolished the death penalty, and thus we must insist that ‘no exceptions from the absolute prohibition of torture and practices involving cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment can be justified, and that states have an obligation to implement safeguards to prevent the perpetration of torture and ill-treatment, and to ensure accountability and access to effective remedies and reparations at all times’. the eu must continue to protect and promote worldwide the importance of an end to torture both in wars and in times of peace.
in writing. - monstrous tortures, like electrically plumbing limbs and genitals or pumping water from a snake through the anus, are used by the syrian regime against its opponents. the world is silent. those who have fled to turkey cannot escape the horror of interrogation by the regime of bashar al-assad. while the world is trying to figure out how to end the criminal regime in this country, behind the prison walls, innocent people are living unimaginable nightmares and suffering. the prisoners call this torture device a crib. this is a metal-framed cell on the third floor of an interrogation cell in the central prison in the northern syrian city of idlib. special belts are attached to the four ends of the prisoners' arms and legs. that's why we should do everything we can to hunt down the torturers and fight these crimes.
in writing. - documents leaked by svergies radio indicate that the swedish defence research agency may be involved in a project to establish weapons factories in saudi arabia. news of the agency's project was reported by swedish radio station svergies radio (sr), which obtained the classified documents. they show that the concept of building weapons factories in saudi arabia was conceived in 2007 and the project was handed over to the private company ssti in 2009 to obtain permission from the authorities to purchase the parts needed for production. the leaked documents show that, in addition to ssti, the company includes people whose activities were covered by the simoom project. former employees of the swedish defence research agency openly admit that sweden's interest in cooperation with saudi arabia on military grounds is high. one of them even spoke to svergies radio to confirm the authenticity of the documents presented. jan-olof lind, the agency's director general, categorically denied the radio station's reports. in his speech, he assured that the simoom project never took place and that all information about the activities carried out was classified.
in writing. - i fully support the very good report by mrs gomes. the paragraphs on respect for religious freedom and condemning support for islamic radicalism are particularly noteworthy. it should be noted that saudi arabia is one of the largest funders of radical islamic schools. in syria, it is the ksa that provides financial, political and military support to the rebels responsible for the murder of christians. i am therefore very pleased with the votes and i think this is a step forward in our relations. at the same time, the status of the christian minority in saudi arabia must be further negotiated.
madam president, i had the blue card, but you're not looking at me. i had a question for mr. aguilar. you don't discriminate against people, you look at everyone. if you put me on the list for the on-demand speeches, i can use that time.
madam president, we have found a good solution. as a psychologist who is also concerned with privacy, i would like to draw the attention of commissioner reding and our colleagues to the fact that the protection of privacy is one of the basic motives for human behaviour. freud would agree with that too. i also think that people have common sense and that for scientific purposes, which can help in the search for e.g. better treatment methods or to protect them from terrorist attacks, they are willing to disclose certain information. in our directives and resolutions we must seek a balance between extreme protectionism, where nothing is guaranteed, and the guarantee of everything. a psychological approach is needed in this case. the commission and our team in the european parliament can therefore consider the proposal.
in writing. new technologies enable public authorities, including law enforcement agencies, as well as businesses and individuals, to access personal data. such wide access to information can lead to numerous abuses that threaten the fundamental rights and freedoms of eu citizens. it is therefore necessary to create a comprehensive and harmonised legal framework for the protection of personal data and to harmonise the different systems currently in place in the various eu member states. however, the commission proposal has some shortcomings in terms of a clear definition of data protection rules, storage elements, transparency and updating. in addition, it is also necessary to strengthen data protection authorities in the monitoring and impact assessment of the new regulation. only a durable and coherent instrument can ensure legal certainty and create conditions of trust for data controllers, in particular law enforcement and the judiciary. in conclusion, i would add that the right to data protection must be aligned with the tasks of the state and that it must be ensured that the state is able to carry out these tasks in the interest of all citizens without abusing the right to privacy.
in writing. since the eu first introduced data protection regulations, the internet has become the primary medium for information flow, and its new features have the potential to revolutionize commerce, public administration and social contacts in the near future. but while the internet was conceived as a network based on free access and equal rights for all users, today we are witnessing a dangerous trend towards the concentration of internet services in the hands of large corporations. let me remind you that the latter has already caught our attention when it was discovered that companies like facebook are evading taxes on a large scale. today, we must stand up for every single internet user whose concerns about the security of their personal data often discourage them from sharing that information or using certain services. i support a broad catalogue of new, clear definitions with regard to data protection. i also believe that the key element of any regulation in this area must be the user's consent to the processing of data, the withdrawal of this consent and the deletion of previously provided data. personal data should be treated as property and property is protected. i'm also skeptical of the profiling practices that i believe corporations are using to try to shut down the internet. i strongly declare my support for the idea of a completely free internet and free consumer choice.
on the one hand, the emotional opposition of all those who, upon learning about the mass surveillance of phones, the internet, do not want to agree with it and demand a strong reaction from the european parliament and other european union bodies is understandable. on the other hand, the question is, would the terrible tragedy of the world trade center in 2001, where people were burned alive, fell from heights, lost their lives, have happened if intelligence services had been more effective and more consistent in tracking the internet and the phones, and had been able to pick up on the signal of the terrorist's criminal intent? would the terrible tragedy in madrid, the explosions in the city's subway and the loss of many young lives, have happened if the police had been more efficient and more aware? we must find a way to do this, understanding the need for civil guarantees on the one hand and the need to create effective instruments for services that will be constantly on the watch for the safety of european citizens on the other.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask my colleague whether it would not be better to allow the individual national prosecutor's offices to function better and more efficiently, so that they can defend the financial interests of the european union quite effectively, instead of spending very large sums of money each year on the operation of a new body, a bureaucratic european prosecutor's office, which does not have to be efficient and effective at all, because there may also be a problem of jurisdictional disputes with individual national prosecutor's offices?
this office is established, as i understand it, primarily to prosecute, investigate, bring to justice those whose activities affect the financial interests of the european union. this should be a decentralised structure based very much on national laws in the individual member states. we are primarily looking for abuses, corruption and other illegal activities, such as vat, the use of the cohesion fund, agricultural funds, all kinds of trafficking, from cigarettes onwards, and there is therefore a field of action that i would particularly like to see: i.e. clear lines of division of competences between the prosecution service, eurojust, also olaf, and close cooperation with the national governments and their justice systems.
it is certainly right to be indignant at all those who point out that the european union is not doing enough to protect its finances against fraud, corruption and various other criminal phenomena. we need to think about what we can do to at least reduce this kind of phenomenon more effectively and efficiently. but it does not seem to be the right way to go about creating a 'super european public prosecutor's office'. i think that a number of possibilities have not been used to allow for better coordination of the activities of individual prosecutor's offices between member states in a flexible way, so that through good practices and training this cooperation would bring better results. i am convinced that the establishment of a new prosecutor's office will entail many legal problems related to the question of jurisdiction, for example, a factual, subjective legal conflict between individual prosecutors. this is not a good way to go, not to mention that the creation of a new office always ends up with a large budgetary outlay sooner or later. and in a time of crisis, the european union cannot afford this kind of extra, huge spending.
i am speaking here as a european, of course, but also as a polish citizen. i would like to emphasise this because poland and turkey are celebrating the 600th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations this year. the comoros president visited turkey a few days ago. polish-turkish relations have historically been very good. turkey refused to recognize the partitions of poland in the 18th century, and during world war ii did not hand over the polish embassy to hitler. and from the point of view of a citizen of a country that has historically had very good relations with turkey, i would like to say, appealing to turkey here, that of course it has the status of a candidate country, and we in this room are perfectly aware of what the formal relations between the european union and turkey are, but turkey must meet, like any candidate country, all the political criteria of copenhagen. it must demonstrate that it respects and promotes the common principles of the european union, that it respects democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and that the fight against corruption is important. turkey should focus for the time being on implementing all the necessary reforms to accelerate accession, but in particular reforms in the field of law.
turkey is one of the biggest partners in the middle east and a nato member. he's been trying to get in for years, and the negotiations have been going on with mixed fortunes. we know that this is not an easy process, but as long as the negotiations are going on, we also believe that a lot can be changed. and that is why i would like to emphasise today that in matters that concern human rights, democracy and freedom, among other things, there is still much to be done in turkey. in some cases, progress has even stalled, but it should be noted that turkey has made progress on minority rights, in particular the rights of the kurdish minority. this is not just the case for turkish kurdistan, but also for relations with iraqi kurdistan. on the other hand, there is a worrying situation with regard to political freedoms, freedom of expression. the report of a journalist being sentenced to prison is worrying. he is also concerned about the use of force against the opposition. these are issues without which turkey cannot even consider accession. the same is true of the cyprus settlement. although there are reports, albeit media reports, that the prime minister believes that the proposal on internet law should be abandoned. and that would be a good sign. but we should talk to turkey, because we are not only an economic partner, but also an important political partner. and we see this particularly in times of crisis, such as the current crisis in ukraine.
in writing. i agree with the main assumptions of the proposed changes to the single european sky. i would, however, like to raise two objections to the proposal to extend the powers of the european aviation safety agency considerably. first, the change of name of the agency to 'air agency' does not seem to be appropriate. in my view, the word 'safety' should not be removed from the name, as it is the very word that defines the essence of the agency's work. it should be noted that among the various european offices and institutions, it is this agency that is responsible for the safe use of european airspace. secondly, the fiction that the agency, with the addition of a number of new tasks, will be able to cope with staff and finances within the current budget as proposed, should not be accepted. the allocation of an additional, significantly extended portfolio of responsibilities to the agency requires that this highly specialised unit be provided with at least the minimum conditions for effective operation. if we don't, it will surely come back to haunt us one day.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mayer, and the responsible parliamentary committee for dealing with this file so diligently. it is necessary to change the rules we have today for a very simple reason: digital technologies have modified the way we arrange our travel, especially our holidays. in the 1990s, most europeans picked out a prearranged package deal from a brochure and booked it at their local travel agency. today consumers are increasingly booking customised packages online, either from one trader or from several commercially-linked ones. this is why the commission has made a proposal to modernise the existing rules in order to adapt them to market developments and bring them into the digital age. the 1990 package travel directive has given consumers important rights regarding information, liability for the package trip, and protection in case the organiser of the package trip enters insolvency. however, with online bookings of customised combinations, more and more travellers are not protected by the directive, and their protection might be uncertain even if they are. when revising these rules, the commission aims to extend protection for consumers to include both pre-arranged packages and customised combinations – especially those arranged online – which are often referred to as dynamic packages. at the same time, we propose introducing a minimum level of protection in the form of compulsory insolvency protection for linked travel arrangements, which are looser combinations of travel services. these changes will increase protection for almost 120 million trips in the eu per year. this will lead to more transparency and more legal certainty while closing legal loopholes and removing outdated rules. it is not only the consumers who will benefit but businesses too, as the new directive will scrap outdated information requirements, such as the need to reprint brochures. the new directive will also facilitate cross-border transactions through increased harmonisation and mutual recognition of national insolvency protection schemes. it is important to maintain a careful balance between the interests of consumers and the interests of the industry, and between the different types of travel businesses. regarding the level of harmonisation, the commission recognises that parliament has found a very balanced solution. while reducing legal fragmentation, the compromise solution you propose would give member states the possibility – in exceptional cases – to extend the organiser’s liability for the proper performance of a package and the organiser’s obligations to obtain insolvency protection, in accordance with national traditions. while this deviates from the commission proposal, we nonetheless consider that it constitutes a reasonable basis for further negotiations. the commission believes, however, that the proposed definition of linked travel arrangements is too narrow. this category would have virtually no practical relevance, and it therefore requires further examination. overall, though, i would like to say to the rapporteur and to his collaborators that the report he is putting to the vote tomorrow is well-balanced and will bolster protection for consumers. the vote tomorrow will also add momentum to the debate in the council, so the new package rule could become law soon.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, on behalf of my committee, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mayer, for his good work. the objectives of the committee on transport and tourism (tran) were as follows. first, the new directive should ensure that consumers benefit from a high level of protection when purchasing a combination of travel services. second, at the same time it is necessary to establish a level playing field between market players selling travel packages, remove legal obstacles to cross-border trade and reduce compliance costs for businesses. in conclusion, we welcome the fact that, in spite of a tight timetable, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in good cooperation with the tran committee, has achieved the following: a new definition of linked travel arrangements based on a distinction from the travel package; a strengthening of provisions in the pre-contractual information; tighter provision in favour of consumers; more favourable conditions in the event of the contract being terminated; liability for performance of the package; and an increase in accommodation coverage, taking it up to eur[nbsp ]125 per night.
the proposed regulation is part of the programme for climate protection and the fight against climate change. the timetable proposed in the regulation takes into account the very long lead-in period for the withdrawal of all fluorinated gases used in the various appliances we use every day. the long transition period will last until 2022. we will not be phasing out fluorinated gases from refrigeration systems until 2022, and from air conditioners until 2025. so we can see that the adjustment period is relatively long. the regulation also draws attention to the certification system for persons working in services, in services, under which these workers will have the appropriate powers to perform their activities, knowing that these activities must be subject to special controls. in this regard, the security system is much broader. we're also required to recover the fluorinated gases from all the equipment. it's important to be aware that these gases are not getting into the atmosphere. the quota system for producers and importers reduces the amount allocated each year. it's a very good solution. thank you, and i think this is one of the better regulations.
in writing. in the context of today's debate, i would like to express my satisfaction with the compromise reached. finding alternatives to most of the substances that are currently depleting the ozone layer is a priority for the european union. protecting the environment and preventing further degradation by reducing greenhouse gas emissions requires reducing current emissions by as much as 95% by 2050. by 2030, the reduction must be as much as 72-73%. we are talking about a 16-year perspective, so effective legislation is needed now. the commission proposal required amendments to the quantitative restrictions on the trade in hydrofluorocarbons, with a view to their phasing out. in this context, consideration should be given to the possibility of introducing equipment using alternative technologies in such a way as to encourage investment and innovation, in particular by small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they rely on alternative equipment with a high penetration rate from the start of their operations. the proposal to introduce a system of producer responsibility for the recovery, recycling, recovery or destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases is noteworthy. an effective system of accountability for reforms is necessary for their effective implementation. i call on the european parliament to adopt the report and to implement the conclusions as soon as possible. the current state of greenhouse gas emissions requires immediate reduction actions and i hope that the finally agreed text will allow the intended short and long-term targets to be effectively achieved.
on behalf of the ppe group. freedom of movement for workers is one of the foundations of the european union. it was already enshrined in the founding treaties of the european communities, which shows that it was one of the most important aspects of integration for the founding fathers. despite the fact that european union citizens have been able to enjoy freedom of movement for many years, only 3% of them do, as edit bauer pointed out. this group is predominantly employed, which in turn stimulates economic growth, gives workers better employment opportunities and enables employers to draw on a wider pool of skilled workers. unfortunately, on the one hand, those interested in mobility still face many obstacles, including those related to administrative requirements, inadequate law enforcement, lack of access to information. on the other hand, it is worrying that more than half of eu citizens do not recognise the value of freedom of movement for workers. the shocking fact is that the data also come from member states where there is a huge problem in finding work. this phenomenon should also be seen as a source of low mobility of people within the single market. if half of citizens do not see the positive aspects of finding a job in another member state, then no facilitation will translate into increased mobility. this situation is further exacerbated by the rhetoric of politicians in some member states who see open labour markets as more risks than opportunities and use negative public attitudes to build support for the upcoming elections, even at the expense of the future of the european union. in this context, i see a huge role for the european commission, which should take action to make the freedom of movement and of employment meaningful. many of the proposals in the directive are aimed at improving access to information, advice and support to the relevant institutions to make them more conducive to the mobility of european union citizens. let us remember that europe is still emerging from the crisis and mobility is one of the important sources of economic growth. as politicians, we have a duty to ensure that citizens who want to work freely can do so throughout the european union.
in writing. the free movement of workers is one of the foundations of the eu's functioning, and ensuring that all citizens and their families can make full use of it is therefore of fundamental importance. this principle also entails improving the situation of equal opportunities in the territory of all member states. it should also be borne in mind that the free movement of workers has a major impact on the family lives of millions of workers in the eu. greater choice of country, job and employer itself has a major impact on education and career decisions. for this reason, any discrimination against employees is unacceptable. however, for the free movement of workers system to function as intended, it is necessary to focus not only on the rights and obligations of workers but also on those of employers. both will benefit from the increased effectiveness and uniformity of the applicable laws based on eu legislation and directly affecting the proper functioning of the internal market. the risks and side effects of increased labour mobility, such as brain drain and the outflow of young people abroad, should also be noted. this is a problem that is mainly faced by the less developed countries, but the long-term opportunities that this situation brings must also be emphasised. some of the workers will return to their countries and can become drivers of progress in their regions or fields. these issues should be closely monitored.
a very good summary of the topics for the european council: on the one hand, the situation in ukraine, on the other, energy and climate. i think it's an association that's imposed itself. security of energy supply and diversification in the context of the crisis in ukraine and the invasion of the neighbourhood is gaining particular prominence. let us also ask ourselves: where does the european union source its primary energy resources? at the same time, climate policy will be the focus of the meeting. the president was right to say that it should also take account of the big players on the world stage. the european union cannot meet these challenges on its own. the energy basket should be shaped with the full freedom of the member states. this will allow, in a rationalised way, for industry to return to europe, to do what we expect: to rebuild the jobs that we lost 5 million as a result of the crisis, while more than 20 million europeans are out of work. i think this is an element that should be taken up decisively at the next european council.
in writing. the current political situation in ukraine and the recurring insecurity of gas supplies to europe from russia point to energy policy challenges in the days leading up to the european council. the recent collapse of the world economy, from which we are still trying to recover, has increased uncertainty and highlighted the weaknesses of individual countries in energy security and environmental protection. countries, either alone or in alliances, are reviewing the fundamentals of their energy policies. government programs to stimulate the economies of highly industrialized countries are painted in every possible shade of green. the terms 'green economy' and 'reducing co2 emissions' have become part of the political vocabulary. so what are the key trends in the ever-evolving scenario that will determine the future energy policy of the european union until 2030? energy, the environment and the economy are interconnected. this linkage influences and is shaped by international politics. the common energy policy must be and will be europe's next great integration project, taking into account: • fossil fuels, which will remain crucial for some time to come; • the growing demand for energy, accompanied by the growing need for energy saving and energy efficiency; • the shift of the global economic centre of gravity towards asia, due to china and india, which will have long-term political and energy consequences; • solidarity between member states in the field of energy priorities.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, russia’s invasion of ukraine, dear me, what bellicose language not heard in this chamber for decades. the eu institutions have been notoriously pro-russian, and stronger words were usually suppressed by the big men in this parliament and the commission. the unpleasant fact is that there is not much that the eu can or will do about russia. the eu has neither instruments, nor the will, nor a common foreign policy for that matter. during the ukrainian crisis the eu high representative did a lot of travelling, but she might just as well have stayed at home and watched television. the job was done by the representatives of national governments. of course, what they did was too late and too timid, and they were soon overtaken by events. today it is clear that the belligerent rhetoric is no longer palatable to the powerful european governments and will soon change. chancellor merkel is not happy with this war of words and longs for the good old days of business as usual. other european governments think pretty much the same. the present outburst of moralistic rhetoric condemning russia – not the first and not the last in recent history – is one of those episodes that will soon pass into political oblivion. what will most likely happen is a tacit agreement between the major western players and russia, legitimising her imperialist interest in the crimea and elsewhere, and it will not take long before this chamber will be praising russia for her self-restraint and a generally stabilising role. the european countries will ultimately side with russia, not against russia; with the strong, not with the weak. this is what european politics has been like for centuries. anyone who expects something entirely different is bound to be disappointed. the book of ecclesiastes had it just right: there is nothing new under the sun.
on behalf of the efd group. putin, saying that the collapse of the soviet union was the greatest disaster of the 20th century, set about rebuilding the empire. first it was georgia, now it's ukraine. commissioner barroso, there would be no putin's audacity if it were not for the naivety of the european union! the billions for nord stream and the planned billions for south stream, these are billions of euros to bypass ukraine and poland in order to become dependent on russia and become even easier victims of putin. the shame of europe is the participation in these plans of putin symbolized by the presence of mr. schröder in the authorities of gazprom as a useful idiot in the imperial plans of the little hitler of the kgb. conclusions for the future: lenin mocked the west and said that the west would provide him with a rope on which he would hang the west. today, the rope is filled by gas dollars and petrodollars from the west, for which putin is conquering an independent ukraine. there must be a fundamental reorientation of europe's energy supply from east to west. it is necessary to rely on our own resources, coal and shale gas... (the president cut the speaker off)
remember churchill's words after munich in 1938. we didn't want confrontation with russia, we chose to appease russia. today we have the threat of war. it's time to change our policy towards russia. the european union stands with all of democratic, free and european ukraine. there is no permission for war in europe, there is no permission for the secession of crimea under the barrel of russian rifles. this is not a russian-ukrainian conflict, it is an attack on the fundamental and sacred principle of european security and peace in europe. it's an attack on the principle of not changing the borders of europe by force. it is therefore a threat to pan-european security and peace in europe. we recognize as the european union the european aspirations of ukraine and the european perspective. we're signing an association agreement next week, offering a large financial aid package and a visa-free program. we consider the de facto annexation of crimea legally ineffective and illegal. we demand the withdrawal of russian troops from crimea.
if you're not going to use the gun, you shouldn't take it out. this room has heard so many verbal attacks on putin that there's nothing new to say today. putin doesn't care about these things. putin will care when the sanctions are real. so, you just press your governments and make it happen. and i would like to tell you that 85% of the crimean population has never been in the european union. you know why? because every time a visa issue comes up in this room, you're all in favor of keeping it. it's very hard to find most of them that aren't. if we don't want to have another crimea, we have to help ukraine today now and very much. we should abolish visas, say, when possible, sign the entire association agreement, coordinate with the united states for financial aid, because if not, putin will use the entire propaganda machine against the government of yatsenyuk. i say this in the presence of the representatives of ukraine and petro poroshenko, who are sitting here and listening. they don't just want to hear us yelling at putin. (the president cut the speaker off)
there's a polish saying, "better late than never". it's very good that we're here today and that we're talking about ukraine. i am glad that president barroso was present, but we must all strike ourselves in the chest as the european union, as the member states. when russian tanks invaded georgia in 2008, we didn't react strongly enough. we didn't react for several years when russian troops occupied and occupy abkhazia and south ossetia. we didn't react strongly enough to the actions against moldova. so today we all have to ask ourselves a few questions: are we allowed to sell modern warships to russia? are we allowed to make our economies dependent solely on russian gas and gazprom? these are the questions we must answer today.
in writing. it's good that many people in the west have opened their eyes. it's a shame it happened under such dramatic circumstances. it's a shame that the price for this sobering up of world public opinion is being paid by an independent ukraine. we should keep our eyes open and draw profound lessons from the situation that russian policy has created. we - among others, the poles - were right when we spoke much earlier about ukraine's openness to european aspirations, about the need to build a common european energy policy, about the strategic importance of diversifying energy sources. fortunately, it is not too late to change eu policy. in the meantime, we must support ukraine, protect its territorial integrity, sign an association agreement, and provide effective financial assistance. in the longer term, the orientation of european policy towards russia needs to be changed. sanctions are obviously not enough. they may have political significance and discourage russia from illegal actions against ukraine. but ultimately, the nature of the economic relationship between russia and the eu needs to be changed so that it is not used as a tool for political pressure.
mr president, my colleague mr[nbsp ]kovatchev asked me to present this. we would like to propose an oral amendment to paragraph[nbsp ]16 in the fifth row from the end, after the words ‘european integration’, to add: ‘in this regard reminds that projects such as south stream increase the eu’s dependency on russian gas’. i think this is very important at the moment.
in writing. - the report to be voted on today concerns the regional role and political relations of pakistan with the european union. the european parliament encourages and supports the pakistani government's efforts to consolidate democracy and combat terrorism and organised crime. we also look very closely at the relationship with china and the geopolitical stability of the area, trade relations, as well as efforts to remedy all human rights violations. parliament also encouraged pakistan and the union to cooperate in the implementation process and to monitor progress constantly, strengthening the dialogue between the two sides in the long term.
in writing. - the report focuses on pakistan's regional role, particularly in relation to the conflict in afghanistan and in relation to relations with india. it also mentions many of pakistan's internal structural problems, such as the lack of rural development, the ongoing political instability, and laws and practices that restrict freedom of speech, in particular through the introduction of the blasphemy law. the report calls on pakistan, as well as india, to accede to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons of mass destruction in order to demonstrate good will in the field of international security and nuclear non-proliferation.
in writing. pakistan is a country of great importance to the region, but also important in international politics. it's the only muslim country with nuclear weapons and the sixth most populous country in the world. it borders india, iran, china, and afghanistan, and its coastal location gives it access to the persian gulf. without this state, it is impossible to resolve any conflict in the region. this is where osama bin laden hid for years, and it's the borderlands of this country that provide sanctuary for militants of terrorist groups, including al-qaeda. it's also one of the united states' most important allies in the region, heavily subsidized by the americans. but i have to admit, he's a difficult partner. mainly because of his ties to the taliban, for it is no secret that islamabad is supporting the movement, but also because of his vague ties to other radical groups. the influence of fundamentalists in the pakistani military is also a cause for concern. the nawaz pakistan muslim league leaders have repeatedly claimed that they would limit their country's role as a servant to the united states and prevent it from taking action in pakistan. however, the new government is not expected to make any radical moves and it is assumed that the aid to the fight against terrorism, although limited, will continue. all this so as not to lose american financial aid.
in writing. - the common security and defence policy should be developed in full complementarity with the north atlantic alliance in partnership with that organisation. the current crisis on our eastern border is a reminder that the countries of the union may also be facing a potential threat, including the use of nuclear weapons. i am in favour of the construction of anti-missile installations in the community countries, including poland. europe must have an effective deterrent as well as a response mechanism if necessary. a coherent defense system, involving all the countries of the alliance, is what i see as the guarantee of the continent's security. i therefore look forward to continued and constructive cooperation between the various countries involved in the missile shield project.
in writing. - in the light of recent events in ukraine and the illegal annexation of crimea by the russian federation, it is necessary to take into account the need to improve the level of security in the european union, and above all in poland. the european union is facing a real threat not only to the security of its citizens, but also to its territorial integrity and the inviolability of its borders. therefore, the construction of the anti-ballistic defense system is a necessity today. the missile shield greatly increases the deterrent against the threat of missile attack not only on the territory of my country, but also in the whole european union. the missile shield is no longer a political tactic or a philosophy of defence, but a real necessity, and real steps must be taken to achieve it.
in writing. - the matter was discussed in brussels by the nato defense ministers and the russian defense minister, but no progress was made. it is no secret that a common path has not yet been found on this issue, but discussions such as the one we have today are important and we must continue to engage to overcome our differences. according to the american plans, as part of the entire system, the missiles in poland were to be installed in 2018. both the americans and nato have repeatedly assured the russians that the system is not aimed at them, but is meant to defend europe and america from the so-called axis of evil countries, namely iran and north korea. moscow, in turn, has repeatedly announced that in response to the us-nato system, it will install its own missiles in the kaliningrad oblast, near the border with poland.
in writing. - i voted to accept this report. i regret that the very important amendment i tabled on russia's negative role and the threat it poses to europe was not voted on. in the context of the events in ukraine, the creation of a missile shield protecting the eu is necessary. the militarization of russia and belarus is a fact, symbolized by advanced tactical missile drills and the deployment of iskander missile batteries in the kaliningrad oblast and on the belarus-poland border. we can't wait any longer because the enemy is playing the cards, imposing his strategy on us.
in writing. - thailand and the european union have signed a cooperation agreement. this opens the way for the signing of a free trade agreement, which was negotiated in march this year. however, it is still unclear when this will happen, as the initiative has a large group of opponents in thailand. thailand is the fifth asean country to sign the cooperation and cooperation agreement. previously, indonesia, vietnam, singapore and the philippines have done so. the cooperation and cooperation agreement aims primarily at enhancing cooperation between the union and thailand in the fields of tourism, education, migration, transport and the environment. it is also intended to intensify political and economic relations, which should facilitate the establishment of a free trade area in the long term.
in writing. - europe has enjoyed a rich culinary tradition for centuries and has drawn inspiration from the cuisines of newly discovered lands. as a result of advances in civilization and the rise of living standards, our diet has changed. unfortunately, not always for the better. despite having easy access to a wide variety of fruits, cheeses, pulses, grains and meats of the highest quality, we often choose products that are highly processed, artificially sweetened, with a huge amount of salt. all of this is leading our nations to an epidemic of civilization's diseases: obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. we are all delighted by the growing trend toward healthy living, organic food, or products straight from the manufacturer, slow food, and cooking healthy meals together. it's a very good habit, which gives us a chance to give our youngest a real education. such a tool will be most effective in inculcating good habits in your young ones, and above all, in setting a good example. so i think it's a good idea to put more emphasis on nutrition and healthy eating and to include it in the curriculum. it doesn't have to be a separate subject, just more school activity in the form of cooking workshops or talking to nutritionists. most regions have their own distinctive food, and such a product can become a symbol and, with proper promotion, attract tourists.
in writing. - the european gastronomic heritage has played and continues to play an important role in everyday life. while there is a need to reduce world hunger in the less developed countries, the lack of culture and/or education in the developed countries has turned diet into a cause of increasingly frequent diseases and pathologies. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs fisas ayxela and i support the introduction of food and nutrition knowledge and gastronomic culture into the education systems of the various countries of the union. the latter is part of our identity and cultural heritage, with important repercussions also on social relations and tourism.
in writing. - the main objective of this own-initiative report is to draw attention to the fact that one of the main tasks and at the same time one of the fundamental principles of the european union should be to spread knowledge in the field of gastronomy, which is part of our cultural heritage. students and pupils should take the time to learn about the social, cultural and historical aspects of their own country's gastronomic heritage, and in particular the diet, which is becoming increasingly important in modern society. gastronomy has also become an important part of tourism, and travellers often visit a country to enjoy food that is considered part of the culture of the region. in this context, it is very important to preserve the gastronomic heritage of the eu countries and regions, and to introduce programmes in schools to increase the knowledge of young people about this important element of cultural identity.
in writing. - the protection of citizens' data must meet the challenges of modern technology and changing lifestyles. this is particularly the case with the ever-increasing role of the internet, which directly translates into the proper functioning of the internal market, including the digital one. the report addresses a number of very important issues, such as the right to delete or correct data about oneself, the right to complain in the event of misuse of data, or precise rules for the processing of data obtained. i hope that the proposed solutions will contribute to improving the quality of protection of citizens online, while also increasing the benefits of doing business online.
in writing. - privacy is a very important issue these days. the reforms took a long time. thousands of amendments and months of consultation have resulted in legislation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data guaranteeing its effective use under the strict conditions applicable in the member state concerned. the care taken for personal data in documents held by a public authority or public institution has also been maintained. at the same time, records have been created so that data can be processed for documentation, statistics or scientific research purposes and, most importantly, the relevant records will facilitate the investigation of biological origin in the case of child abduction or kidnapping. in conclusion, the introduction of these provisions provides adequate protection of the confidentiality of personal data.
in writing. - the introduction of a significant number of amendments has resulted in the provisions on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data guaranteeing their effective use under the strict conditions applicable in the member state concerned. the protection of personal data in documents held by a public authority or public institution shall also be maintained. at the same time, records have been created to enable data to be processed for documentation, statistics or scientific research purposes and, most importantly, to facilitate the investigation of biological origin in the case of child abduction or kidnapping. in conclusion, the introduction of these provisions provides adequate protection of the confidentiality of personal data.
in writing. - counterfeiting of european currency is an easy way to generate illicit income and is becoming one of the main activities of organised crime groups. the circle of potential offenders is also growing because technical progress has made modern banknote printing technologies more readily available. it is also a relatively inexpensive procedure. counterfeiting the euro is also convenient for criminals because it is the common currency of most member states, making it easier to distribute illegal banknotes. the euro is counterfeited not only by organised crime groups in europe but also in other continents, such as south america. counterfeiting the euro is a huge economic liability for the european union as a whole and for individual member states. for this reason, the protection of banknotes against counterfeiting should be strengthened, in particular by introducing new safeguards. this protection must also be reflected in a more effective detection of criminal groups that are engaged in this practice. it'll help prevent the spread of illegal money.
in writing. - the vote on the project in question should be considered a formality, since the analysis of the pericles 2020 programme clearly shows the intentions of its creators. the current extension of the regulation to non-participating member states provides additional safeguards against the potential spread of counterfeiting of the euro. this will be possible through the funding of a programme of appropriate training in this field. as the evaluations of the programme's performance in previous years were positive, the project should have been supported.
in writing. - i'm against the single currency, but i'm even more against organized crime. today it is the biggest beneficiary of the introduction of counterfeit euro coins. counterfeiting money, although not a core activity of organised crime groups, is an attractive form of illicit income. the common european currency, the euro, is the most popular for counterfeiters on the old continent. in 2004, 860[nbsp ]661 euro banknotes with a total face value of 45[nbsp ]179[nbsp ]430 were intercepted in circulation and before they were put into circulation. this was 27.7% higher than in 2003, when 673[nbsp ]902 banknotes were secured. it's like this every year. i therefore welcome the report on the fight against counterfeiting. the pericles program is an interesting initiative.
in writing. - the european union has been strengthening its relations with azerbaijan since 1996 through the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement and since 2009 through the eastern partnership. visa liberalisation and the promotion of citizens' mobility are important elements of deepening economic integration between the eu and the eastern partnership countries. the introduction of a visa facilitation system for azerbaijan is also a response to the expressed expectations of polish national and regional economic operators developing trade cooperation with this country. i am convinced that the process of simplifying and speeding up the visa procedure for azerbaijan will contribute to the fuller achievement of the objectives of the eastern partnership and will also have a positive impact on the development of local businesses wishing to establish cooperation with azerbaijan.
in writing. - negotiations on border facilitation are not ending the visa system altogether. the eu will also be discussing the possibility of reducing or, in some cases, abolishing visa fees for eu citizens. the visa fee would be reduced to eur 30[nbsp] for citizens of azerbaijan travelling to the european union. the number of documents required for obtaining cheaper, long-term and multiple-entry visas is also to be reduced. students and teachers at higher education institutions will be able to access them more easily. diplomats may be exempted from the visa requirement. the talks, which will begin on 7 february 2012, will also cover the readmission agreement between azerbaijan and the european union. this is to streamline the system of returning to the country of origin of migrants illegally present in the territory of the european union or azerbaijan. the visa facilitation and readmission agreements are treated together and therefore have to enter into force simultaneously. the facilitation of the issuance of visas to the union depends on the political will of azerbaijan. so far, brussels has simplified the visa regime with georgia, moldova, ukraine and russia.
in writing. - according to the european commission's 2013 timetable, it is planned to conclude negotiations on visa facilitation and readmission agreements with armenia and azerbaijan. the effective implementation of the visa facilitation and readmission agreements and successful cooperation, in particular in the fields of justice and home affairs, may lead to the early opening of negotiations on the planned actions for further visa liberalisation with georgia, and subsequently with armenia and azerbaijan. the visa liberalisation of the republic of moldova and ukraine will be conditional on the fulfilment by those countries of certain tasks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am firmly convinced of the need to adopt all possible instruments to protect children from armed conflict. sadly, estimates of the number of children involved in armed conflict vary widely, ranging from 250,000 to 800,000 children being separated from their families, recruited as soldiers, forced to kill and subjected to sexual exploitation. most armed conflicts today are between non-state armed actors and governments or other armed groups, and civilians are the main victims of such clashes. that is why i am voting in favour of this humanitarian commitment to the protection of children.
in writing. - the number of children who are currently involved in armed conflict is estimated to be between 250,000 and 800,000. children often suffer as a result of armed conflict, where their most basic rights are systematically violated. although the primary responsibility for protecting civilians lies with individual states, it is important to emphasise the obligation of armed non-state actors to protect people under international humanitarian law (ihl). the un has declared february 12 as the international day against the use of child soldiers to raise awareness of the issue and to gain support for the zero under 18 campaign. this is also to seek support for the universal ratification of the optional protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict. it's a good and important report.
in writing. - according to legal theorists, volunteers of ngos and all those who are professionally engaged in child psychology and pedagogy are one of the categories of the civilian population most in need of protection and care during armed conflict. in analysing the legal status of children in armed conflict, reference should be made to the concept of a child, i.e. an entity entitled to a specific set of rights under international humanitarian law. this seemingly simple interpretation can present a number of difficulties under international and national law. the child's age must be defined, i.e. the age limits of the childhood period.
in writing. - the new legislative procedures (delegated and implementing acts) which were implemented after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon gave more powers to the european parliament, but at the same time forced the adaptation of existing legislation to new methods of law-making. as a result of the conferral of 'delegated powers' on the european commission, it may amend existing documents accepted by the european parliament and inform the other institutions accordingly. however, in the event of objections from the ep, the commission delegated regulation may be rejected. this is the case with the commission proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of the european parliament and of the council on food information to consumers in the context of the definition of 'engineered nanomaterials'. information on all ingredients present in food produced using nanotechnology must be provided on the packaging so that the consumer is aware of the contents of the product he intends to purchase. nanomaterials are defined by relevant international legislation (i.e. commission recommendation 2011/696/eu) and the aforementioned regulation enables the european commission to adapt these definitions to take account of technical and scientific progress. at the same time, it excludes from the definition of 'engineered nanomaterials' food additives presented in the union lists. the incompatibility of such a derogation with the [nbsp]regulations and with the overriding objective of the legislative measure, namely the protection of consumers' health, leads to the rejection of the commission's proposal.
in writing. - the new act will regulate the rules on food labelling in a comprehensive manner. the most important changes to the current rules concern, among others, the introduction of requirements to improve the legibility of labels, mandatory nutrition information, the display of clear and complete information on allergens, the indication of the country of origin for pork, lamb and goat meat and poultry meat, and other requirements. the new rules are designed to ensure that labels are more legible, making it easier for consumers to find the information they need about food products when they shop. for this reason, the minimum font height for the mandatory information to be displayed on the label has been set, i.e. a 'height x' of at least 1,2 mm, whereas for packaging with a maximum surface area of less than 80 cm2, the minimum 'height x' may be at least 0,9 mm. it is also important that mandatory food information must be indelible and must not be hidden, obscured, reduced or interrupted by other printing or illustration.
in writing. - europe needs to reform its data protection laws. in the age of modern computer technology, more than two decades of legislation cannot ensure adequate protection of europeans' data online. citizens expect a high level of protection of personal data under a single european law. the legislative package adopted by parliament, comprising two instruments, namely the general data protection regulation and the directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data for the purpose of crime prevention, addresses concerns about the supervision of data processing and is a major step towards restoring confidence in the digital economy. the main points of the regulatory update, stricter penalties for companies that do not comply with the restrictions, limits on user profiles and stronger and more independent data protection authorities will help to restore that trust by allowing real enforcement from businesses to comply with the rules. under the new rules, only the minimum amount of data needed to provide the service will be collected, data will be protected from being processed by third country governments, and the possibility of data being traded without our knowledge or consent will be severely curtailed. in addition, the new directive introduces major changes to the way information is processed by the police and courts in criminal matters. the european parliament must defend the rights of citizens without depriving law enforcement of the means to fight crime.
in writing. - with the rapid development of modern computer technologies, we should ensure the protection of the processing of personal data for the purposes of crime prevention. with the rapid development of computer technology, the european union needs to keep updating its rules on the protection of personal data within the framework of a single european law. the new rules must improve the effectiveness of law enforcement in the fight against crime, while protecting civil rights.
in writing. - following the scandal generated by the nsa case in america, which also involved the european union in general and some of its member states in particular, the issue of the processing of personal data for the purpose of crime prevention could represent a difficult juncture. the issue of privacy is becoming more and more topical, and we must not forget that the processing of personal data is a sensitive matter. at the same time, crime prevention also passes through the tools that provide for the use of personal data. it is therefore necessary to find a fair compromise which will protect the citizen and at the same time hold the guilty ones accountable.
in writing. - the directive lays down rules relating to the processing of personal data for the purposes of the prevention, prosecution and detection of criminal offences. it also sets out the objectives of protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular the right to the protection of personal data, while ensuring a high level of public security and ensuring the exchange of personal data between competent authorities in the european union. the scope of the directive is not limited to cross-border data processing but also covers all data processing operations carried out by the competent authorities as defined in the directive. the directive repeals outdated and dysfunctional existing rules and replaces them with a directive introducing enforceable rules that ensure a much higher level of protection of personal data.
the need to handle increasingly heavy air traffic requires a practical approach and proper regulation. unfortunately, not all european countries are committed to the single european sky initiative, which also translates into inconvenience and increased passenger handling costs. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2013. with a view to continuing to improve travel conditions, i ask the commission to take appropriate action in cooperation with the member states.
in writing. - launched in 2000, the single european sky initiative (ses) aimed at bringing air traffic management and navigation services under the common transport policy. nevertheless, 14 years later, ses is far from perfect. costs of the fragmentation of european airspace coupled with the anticipated growth in air-traffic, efficiency and use of the european network routes are a few of the reasons why the commission launched a recast of the regulation on ses implementation. the current report supports the commission’s recast and proposes further means to make the proposal more practical – especially with regard to implementation. specifically, the report seeks to include a social dimension in the regulation, to create much-needed indicators covering social, cultural and staffing conditions in the atm sector; it further calls on member states to undertake enhanced cooperation to make ses more inclusive and flexible. lastly, the report vetoes initial plans to oblige member states to separate and liberalise support services from the core services. the social and organisational cost would be unpredictable and the benefits for aviation questionable. coping with passenger demand for delay-free, environmentally-friendly and affordable air travel requires a change in the current system. this report is important in achieving this goal, therefore i voted to support it.
in writing. - the idea of creating a single european sky (ses) has brought together air traffic management and air navigation services within the eu's common transport policy. this is a highly complex process, the main objective of which should be to deliver tangible benefits to the european air traffic management industry, airspace users, airlines and passengers. it should not be forgotten that the safety of european citizens is a key factor in optimising and speeding up the functioning of european airspace. they must also not be exposed to unjustified costs related to the implementation of the ses.
in writing. - the single european sky policy is largely on paper, as the european commission says. therefore, it is necessary to make the aviation sector supervisors and air navigation organisations independent of the state authorities and other entities. in its reference to other bodies and organisations, the communication merely indicates the direction of future legislative changes. in particular, the commission provides that the members of the so-called 'performance review body' whose functions are performed by eurocontrol should be elected directly by the commission and not by the representatives of the member states. at the same time, the communication provides for the extension of eurocontrol's competence in its function as air traffic management network manager to include certain aspects of airspace design. the simplified management structures are also intended to improve the functioning of the organisation.
the increasing use of the internet in commercial transactions makes it necessary to guarantee the quality of the services offered by the tourism sector as well. therefore, a focused approach to harmonisation in the area of consumer rights, in this case travellers, is of the utmost importance. in practice, this translates into, among other things, issues of correct information about the service offered or the consumer's right to terminate the contract in the event of the operator's failure to fulfil its obligation. this is essential in the face of the regularly recurring cases of insolvency of professional suppliers resulting in non-performance of the contract and the frequent practice of leaving customers to their own devices. the provisions of the directive impose an obligation to organise return travel in such a situation.
in writing. - the sale of tourist services and events via the internet has increased rapidly in recent years, so it is necessary to update the regulations. it is important that the rules are balanced and take into account the interests of both tourism companies and consumers. for example, information obligations on the part of the tour operator should be strengthened, but this should not result in an excessive burden. the rules also cover situations where the price of a journey changes. in certain circumstances, the traveller must be able to withdraw from the contract without suffering financial loss or the right to participate in a tourist event of the same value. organisers should also be obliged to provide immediate assistance if a traveller is in trouble during the journey for which the organiser is not responsible. of course, such assistance cannot be a financial burden for the organiser, since it had no influence on the situation of the traveller. it may also happen that the tour operator becomes insolvent and[nbsp]there is a need for comprehensive protection. this is not only financial security but also direct transport with return in the event that the traveller is 'displaced' in a member state other than his country of origin. the adopted report is parliament's position and a good starting point for further work to ensure greater legal certainty for travellers without imposing too much on businesses.
in writing. - the obligations arising from the directive will cover a greater number of companies, which will equalise their chances in organising tourist events. this will also increase consumer safety, as more operators will have to provide certain guarantees in the event of the inability to provide a service or its poor performance, says krzysztof piątek from the polish association of tour operators. the draft also envisages the inclusion of sellers of arranged tourist services, i.e. those where the trader refers to offers from other companies that can be used as part of a single trip. when a consumer chooses such services, he concludes separate contracts with different sellers. an organised tourist service differs from a package tourism in that it does not include the essential elements of the latter, such as the total or all-inclusive price. the draft directive requires retailers who facilitate the purchase of 'arranged tourist services' to clearly explain to travellers that the organiser of the tourist service is solely responsible for the provision of the service, explains przemysław kral, a lawyer at przemysław kral law firm. this means that the trader is only responsible for his own offer. in the case of a traditional tourist event, the seller is responsible for all the services that are part of the tourist event. travellers will, however, be able to direct their complaints or claims also through the retailer and the travel agency where they purchased the trip in question, "kral's lawyer said.
in writing. - the european parliament very rarely deals with tourism services, which is a fast-growing sector. the response to the changes in tourism therefore seems to be delayed. in recent years, the changes have mainly been the introduction of online commerce, whereby the consumer selects offers and makes his own travel and stay plans online. in other words, consumers are increasingly reluctant to use a ready-made and comprehensive package of tourist services in favour of choosing individual transport or hotel services. these increasingly visible changes cannot relieve operators selling individual tourism services from providing decent minimum service standards. these basic requirements are the reliable information of tourists about the products and the obligation for operators to provide security for various emergency situations, such as the need to return the deposits collected if the service is not provided or the obligation to ensure that travellers return home in the event of the tourist office's insolvency. in my view, such legal and financial requirements should in any event apply to carriers, which would save many tourists from the problems they may encounter during their travel or stay.
in writing. - finding alternatives to most of the substances currently depleting the ozone layer and strengthening competitiveness in the field of innovative refrigeration, air-conditioning and heating technologies are among the priorities of the european union. according to previous eu guidelines, protecting and preventing further environmental degradation by reducing greenhouse gas emissions requires reducing current emissions by up to 95% by 2050. and in less than 16 years, by 2030, the reduction must be as much as 72-73%. during the preparation of the commission proposal, the need to introduce equipment using alternative technologies in such a way as to encourage investment and innovation, in particular by small and medium-sized enterprises, was identified to rely on alternative equipment with a high penetration rate from the start of their operations. the proposal to introduce a system of producer responsibility for the recovery, recycling, recovery or destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases is noteworthy. an effective system of accountability is necessary for the implementation of reforms and such changes should be welcomed. i support this report because i see the need to start implementing the conclusions as soon as possible. the current state of greenhouse gas emissions requires immediate reduction actions and i hope that the finally agreed text will allow the intended short and long-term targets to be effectively achieved.
in writing. - fluorinated greenhouse gases are a group of chemicals that contain fluorine. f-gases have specific properties that make them useful agents in a wide range of applications. although these gases are present in very low concentrations in the atmosphere, their emissions are similar to those of greenhouse gases and contribute 14% to the current warming trend. all greenhouse gases are related to human activity. the european union has adopted measures to regulate emissions of certain greenhouse gases under its obligations under the kyoto protocol. the european commission's main objective is to reduce their volume and thus contribute to the reduction of fluorinated gas emissions. to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the eu has set up a market trading system, with specific rules for fluorinated greenhouse gases.
in writing. - the free movement of workers is the basis for a well-functioning internal market in the eu, enshrined in article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. unfortunately, many workers, employers and officials still lack sufficient knowledge of the legislation in force in this area. the free movement of workers is a key condition for the development of the eu labour market, especially now that we are facing the consequences of the economic crisis. it is estimated that while we are struggling with recent record unemployment in the eu, almost 1.7 million jobs are unfilled. it is therefore essential to facilitate the exercise of the rights of permanent, seasonal and frontier workers whose place of employment and residence are in two different member states, and of persons engaged in an economic activity for the purpose of providing services. discrimination on grounds of nationality or residence in respect of employment, remuneration, tax and social rights is also unacceptable. therefore, legislation is needed to ensure that workers are adequately protected in all eu countries.
in writing. - current legislation covers projects with a production capacity of at least 500[nbsp]000 cubic metres of gas per day. many shale gas projects have much lower production thresholds due to the environmentally unfavourable nature of the fracking process. it is also a water-intensive technology, and poland is water-poor. environmental impact assessment should therefore be mandatory for all projects related to the extraction and exploration of unconventional hydrocarbons (shale gas and oil, coalbed methane, etc.), irrespective of the size of the production, including shale gas projects where hydraulic fracturing technology is used. the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive covers a wide range of public and private projects. it sets out the basic criteria for the project, including the information that must be submitted to the national authorities for final approval. unfortunately, the previous amendments were dropped: aimed at deleting the provisions related to the environmental analysis at the exploration stage, concerning the environmental assessment only for extraction above 500[nbsp ]000 cubic metres. however, i voted in favour of the report because i believe that its adoption will not lead to the blocking of exploration for unconventional gas in poland. moreover, the directive does not enter into force immediately, as do regulations and decisions, so there is no cause for alarm at this stage.
in writing. - the protection of the environment is one of the fundamental duties of every citizen of the european union, regardless of his or her profession or material status. how we treat the environment now will determine the world in which future generations will live. the ideal is a 'green economy' with sustainable projects that are developed in terms of their impact on resource efficiency, climate change and biodiversity loss. unfortunately, like any ideal, it is currently unattainable. the authors of this document therefore seek to address current issues and challenges. the idea is to provide the european union with the efficient tool needed to rationally assess and control the impact of new public and private projects. the updating of the current legislation is necessary because the global economy is constantly evolving and new issues requiring regulation, such as potential extraction and[nbsp]use of shale gas, will be increasingly emerging in the near future. however, it should be borne in mind that not all national economies are at a similar level of development and that the harmonisation of rules across the eu will create problems for those countries whose economies are based on older technologies. at the same time, new legislation can provide an additional incentive to stimulate the development of new ventures, but it should be stressed that this is a long-term process.
in writing. - the discovery of unconventional energy hydrocarbon deposits, such as shale gas, in selected eu countries and the emergence of economic methods of extracting them have created the need for comprehensive regulation of this issue. the aim is to strike a delicate balance between ensuring high environmental standards and reducing the level of risk incurred by private operators exploring and subsequently exploiting unconventional hydrocarbon deposits. i support the report as it meets my expectations in this respect. it provides an incentive for investors by avoiding the need to carry out a complex environmental impact assessment for each well, which would only hinder the potential benefits that shale gas can bring to europe. on the other hand, any operator exploring for oil reserves must make every effort to ensure that the environment is not harmed by the exploration for hydrocarbons for energy. i nevertheless insist that any decision to start the industrial exploitation of the reservoir be preceded by an environmental impact assessment and be made in accordance with the most far-reaching conservation measures. moreover, i take this opportunity to once again appeal to the polish government to fulfil its obligation to adopt the renewable energy sources act. the commission considers that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty.
in writing. - environmental impact assessment (eia) is a process that ensures that environmental impacts are taken into account before decisions are made on the development of a site or the implementation of a project. the basic requirements for environmental impact assessments are laid down in the environmental impact assessment directive.
in writing. - these provisions require the member states of the european union to collect and transmit to the statistical office of the european commission, eurostat, statistical data on trade between them. these provisions do not specify which institutions in each member state are to be responsible for implementing this obligation, leaving the organisation of the operation of intrastat to the discretion of the individual countries. in the european union countries, there is a system of data collection which consists of the submission of reports by economic operators to the designated institutions or offices on a monthly cycle. it is recommended that international trade in goods statistics should record all goods that add or subtract from a country's material resources, i.e. goods brought into or taken out of the country.
in writing. - the copernicus programme is intended to be an effective means of achieving the objective of providing data and information from satellite observations and developing standards for european space research and observation. an integral part of these improvements is to strengthen protection and security for the population, which in turn leads to economic growth. better coordination of space activities between the european union, the european space agency and the member states is also crucial. to this end, it is proposed to set up a dedicated copernicus data distribution network to support activities carried out by local authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises. i welcome these proposals because of the crucial importance of these latter operators for the development of the union's economy. the legal and policy framework to facilitate access to finance for investment in this area has not yet been developed. it is also important to agree on solutions to enable the commercial dissemination of satellite data. i would also like to stress the essential role of promoting convergence at european level, which is one of the priorities of the programme. i decided to support this project because of its strategic value in adapting current legislation to the challenges of constant technological development and the competitiveness of programmes run by other actors.
in writing. - it is important to separate the different areas of the agency's activities and the security issues. the only question is the phraseology. it is worth considering whether it would not be appropriate to return to the question of enis. various economic agencies have been set up in the past and it is therefore worth applying for similar prerogatives. the european commission representative stated that the report in its current form provides an excellent basis for discussion in the council. the enhancement of gnss is the real implementation of the regulation, which will enter into force on 1 january 2014[nbsp]. all amendments proposed by the various committees are welcome.
mr president, the vilnius eastern partnership summit was to conclude with the signing of an agreement with ukraine. this was not due to a change in the position of the authorities in kiev at the time. however, a number of errors can also be pointed out on the european diplomatic side. moscow's commitment to expanding its sphere of influence was largely ignored. at least the current events in crimea highlight the need to redefine european policy towards russia. the eu should be more active in relations with the partnership countries in order to deepen mutual cooperation and develop a coherent position in the face of the increasingly aggressive policies of the kremlin. i hope that the association agreements in question, including the agreement with ukraine, will be concluded soon, which is in the interest of all the member states of the community.
in writing. - the eastern partnership is a key element in supporting the european neighbourhood policy on the eu's eastern border. it is based on the promotion of european values: peace, solidarity, democracy and sustainable economic growth, and[nbsp ]its aim is to strengthen the integration of the eastern partners in the political, economic and cultural dimensions. i believe that the eastern partnership needs active support from the eu more than ever and the action plan for the development of this project should take this into account. there are many tools available to the eu to support deeper cooperation between the partner countries, such as easing trade restrictions, promoting economic modernisation and implementing visa liberalisation. i also agree that actions to support civil society, including young leaders, play a key role, in particular through the development of the erasmus+ programme, the creation of the eastern partnership university, and the eastern partnership 'youth window' in the framework of the 'youth in action' programme.
in writing. - opening up and cooperating with the eastern partnership countries should be a priority for the next european parliament term. the ongoing crisis on the continent provides the right justification. we should encourage the economies of neighbouring countries to cooperate and their citizens to come to our member states. it is necessary to take appropriate measures and to create tools and mechanisms to this end. the most basic step should be to make visa facilitation for the countries associated with the union easier so that their citizens can come and study freely in the union. those who study in europe will become leaders in their societies. it is also an investment in shaping civil society and european awareness. closer cooperation also has a positive impact on stronger integration, the promotion of pro-european ideas and the modernisation of those countries, most of which are still recovering from the trauma of communism. it is our duty to support their modernisation, both economically and politically. i'm polish, so i know how important this is. i would like to support the development of the eastern partnership idea. nothing builds like cooperation and harmony.
in writing. - the eastern partnership is a very important project in the context of recent events in ukraine, but one that has been unfortunately overlooked for years. we need to resuscitate them. the eu has forgotten the east, focusing on events in north africa, and today, with russia's annexation of crimea, we see the errors of our policy. i endorsed that report. i believe that the eu must change its policy and increase its influence in the east. the geopolitics and security of member states such as poland require this.
in writing. - a special mechanism within the european neighbourhood policy is the eastern partnership programme, set up at the initiative of poland and with the support of sweden, which is a tool for developing cooperation with former soviet republics that show european aspirations and are neighbours of the union or have close economic, political and social relations with it. the eastern partnership is the first such broad and[nbsp]comprehensive concept to bring these countries into the european union's external relations system. the initiative is addressed to the eastern european countries that emerged from the break-up of the former soviet union: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine.
in writing. - in recent years, the eastern partnership programme has fallen sharply. the union has directed its resources and efforts towards strengthening the southern dimension of its foreign policy. it has thus abandoned its support for the countries which are geostrategically most important to us, since they allow us to build energy independence, for example through the nabuco pipeline project. the report put to the vote is interesting and contains many important points. i drew particular attention to paragraph 7, in which the ep calls on the commission to draw up a green paper on the future of the eastern partnership after the vilnius summit. this is a very important record. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime.
in writing. - after the disclosure of the american surveillance program, we continue to learn about it from the media and the successive disclosure of secret documents. commissioner viviane reding asked the us attorney general specific questions about the principles of prism back in june, which she repeated after the dublin meeting. she hasn't gotten an answer yet. dublin also agreed to set up a special international group of experts to look into the matter. the group was formed, and they had even met. but that doesn't tell us much. we only know that representatives of the presidency, the european commission, the european external action service, the counter-terrorism coordinator, experts from ten member states and one member of the article 29 working party, i.e. one of the polish counterparts of the giodo, were invited to participate. neither the composition, the low level of transparency, nor the very diplomatic pace, augurs well for this venture.
in writing. - in a short time, we have come a long way in the process of creating a european area of justice. justice policy has indeed emerged as a focus area where much work is being done at european level (a comparison with the internal market in the 1990s is appropriate). however, there is still much to be done. our aim is to create a european area of justice full and solid. citizens and businesses will only reap the full benefits of our internal market if they can be sure that their rights are protected everywhere. it's about mutual trust in the justice system. we have to keep working to deepen that trust.
in writing. - one of the objectives of the community's audiovisual policy is to make european broadcasters more competitive with those outside the union, particularly the united states, and to facilitate the financing of films, programmes and other works produced in europe. issues related to the promotion of european ideas, such as media freedom and pluralism, protection of children from inappropriate content, unrestricted access to media for people with disabilities, are also of great importance. the european union also wants to control more of the advertising market, which uses entirely new channels to reach consumers.
in writing. - of the 500 million european citizens, only a small percentage seems to know and exercise their rights as union citizens. this notion was stressed in the spring 2013 eurobarometer, which revealed that 53% of europeans feel they do not know their rights as eu citizens. to enhance awareness and knowledge to the rights and responsibilities of eu citizenship, the commission added to its 2013 eu citizenship report 12 new actions in six key areas. the corresponding ep report builds on these areas, while adding several elements to the commission’s proposal: the report stresses that citizens must have access to all the necessary information to enable them to practise fully their economic, social, administrative, legal and cultural rights. it further calls on national, regional and local authorities to promote understanding of eu citizenship and explain the benefits to individuals. moreover, it encourages member states to give more space to political education on eu affairs in their school curricula. lastly, the report calls on the eu institutions to improve transparency and access to public documents. with that, the adopted report will help promote active eu citizenship and the effective application of citizens’ rights in everyday matters across the eu. therefore i voted to support this report.
in writing. - european citizenship is one of the added-value of eu integration it is inextricably linked to the practical benefits and rights enjoyed by its holders, which is why it is so important to remove barriers to the internal market and to support citizens as consumers and workers throughout europe. last year's european year of citizens and[nbsp]the interest in the european citizens' initiative made it clear that it plays a key role in bringing the eu institutions closer to citizens. citizenship-enhancing actions are particularly crucial now that public confidence in the european union has declined as a result of the financial crisis. i welcome the european commission's initiatives to raise citizens' awareness of their rights, in particular through the europe direct and your europe portals. i hope that efforts to raise awareness of solvit among businesses will be redoubled. i also support the idea of making the content of the public consultation available in all the official languages of the eu, so that there is no discrimination on the grounds of language and so that all interested parties can participate in the dialogue and be directly involved in the eu law-making process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr salvrakosa because i believe that it touches on many issues which are relevant to the daily lives of the citizens of the union. two issues are particularly important to me. first, the commission should speed up the work on the introduction of a uniform, universally recognised disability card throughout europe. such an identity would make it possible by recognising the privileges enjoyed by disabled persons in a member state for all persons with disabilities residing in that territory to reduce the obstacles to free movement. this would have a positive impact on the mobility, activation and social inclusion of disabled people. the commission has also been asked to submit a draft of the charter as soon as possible, in the context of the seminar on mobility for people with disabilities that i organised in parliament in 2013 and in the written declaration that i co-authored. i also agree with the rapporteur that we need to intensify education in european affairs, which allows for the training of active and engaged citizens. this is particularly important in the run-up to the forthcoming european elections, in which citizens will elect their direct representatives. recent surveys show that many people, especially young people, are still not fully aware that they can vote in the upcoming elections. i believe that knowledge of civil rights should be promoted both through school education and information campaigns aimed at all groups of citizens.
in writing. - the european public prosecutor's office as a law enforcement body dealing with fraud investigations does not seem to be needed in the european union at the moment. the creation of such a body would be another manifestation of the process of federalisation of the union, which i am opposed to. such a body would also be a manifestation of increased bureaucratization and an accumulation of unnecessary procedures. it would also be very costly to set up such an institution. the legal gaps between national regulations should be addressed by harmonising the divergent provisions. the creation of a new and expanded institution is not an effective tool for this. the establishment of a european union-wide prosecutor's office could also lead to a tightening of the prosecution procedures in individual member states, and[nbsp ]thereby to a reduction in the detectability of crimes. states can already cooperate effectively through their law enforcement agencies in the fight against fraud involving public funds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european public prosecutor's office is able to fulfil its mandate.
in writing. - this idea has been opposed from the outset by eu countries, especially the uk, which is also opposed to the reform of the european judicial cooperation unit (eurojust). after the reform of eurojust, he will be able to instruct the uk prosecution to issue a warrant for him. that would be a loss of sovereignty, which we cannot accept.
in writing. - the fight against organized crime must be accelerated. other reports indicate that the mafia and organized crime groups make $325 billion a year from the drug trade alone. it's time to end this. one important measure is the issue of enhanced cooperation between prosecutors from different member states. the european public prosecutor's office is not the right solution. the report put to the vote creates another eu bureaucratic 'moloch' and is completely unnecessary. instead, we should allocate resources to developing mutual cooperation and joint training. this does not require the creation of new union agencies. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the past year may prove to be a turning point for turkey's relations with the european union. the events that have taken place over the past twelve months show that ankara has found itself at a crossroads and will have to make a choice in which direction to go. on the one hand, integration negotiations have been resumed after years of suspension and significant progress has been made. on the other hand, we have seen a tightening of domestic politics in the country recently. the attempted censorship of the internet, the arrest and beatings of young activists fighting for respect for public space, the dismissal of police and prosecutors fighting corruption among ruling party activists - all of this should concern us. this is a signal that the turkish authorities are moving away from european values towards soft authoritarianism. in today's vote i supported the resolution on turkey's progress, because it correctly points out the problems that exist and makes recommendations on the action we should take on the european stage. if the european union really sees ankara as a future member, it should respond decisively to the unacceptable and stop prime minister erdogan from tightening domestic policies. otherwise, we will show that we are not serious about turkey's integration into the european union.
in writing. - we have traditionally noted a stalemate in relations with turkey, which has not made significant progress in meeting the political criteria for eu accession. i also regret that ankara has refused to cooperate with cyprus, which currently holds the presidency of the council of the eu, and has called on turkey to 'resolve bilateral disputes'.
in writing. - the arctic has become a new area of geopolitical competition, and that's why i decided to explain this vote. there are a few important issues to mention when it comes to the arctic. the most important of these are the raw materials and energy factors, the northern passage and the military factor in the far north. in 2008, the u.s. geological survey, a government research agency, published information that unexplored and unconfirmed deposits in the arctic region could contain as much as 46 trillion cubic feet of gas (almost 30 percent of the world's undiscovered gas) and 90 billion barrels of oil (about 13 percent of the world's undiscovered deposits and three times the confirmed reserves). the commission also found that the russian producers of the like product were not able to obtain the necessary raw material from the union industry. the second factor shaping arctic relations, albeit with a somewhat limited state composition, is the possibility of establishing new trade routes between the euro-atlantic area and the pacific area. the third and equally important issue is the military context. let his emphasis be on the development of russian military forces in the north.
in this discussion, it is worth highlighting that we are talking about the largest rescue operation in financial history: a total of eur 440 billion was provided to the five euro area countries. when the financial crisis hit europe in 2009, there were no legal or political instruments in place to deal with the phenomena on such a scale. the only institution prepared to respond was the international monetary fund, but it could not mobilize the massive resources needed to save the eurozone. there was no legal framework in the original law, therefore the intergovernmental method was the only one available in that situation. it may not have been the ideal method from the european parliament's point of view, but it was the only one available at the time. we must remember that the main objective of the troika was to save the eurozone member countries from bankruptcy and thus preserve the integrity of the eurozone. fear of what would happen if we failed to achieve that goal. the causes of the crisis were multi-dimensional, heterogeneous, exacerbated by structural inequalities, primarily in the structure of trade and public finances, in the economies of some eu countries, which had been accumulating over the years. three wasn't the cause of the crisis, it was the cure. from this perspective, it should also be noted that the first thing a medicine must do is to be effective, and whether it leaves a bitter aftertaste is a secondary matter. the troika's actions have saved countries from crisis - this is an indisputable fact, but attempts to politically nuance this fact are of secondary importance. with the country on the brink of bankruptcy, structural reforms must be drastic and painful. i remember such reforms in poland, in a completely different situation, and they were even more drastic. remember, the alternative to a recession is a depression, and in our case, it would be a depression on a scale unimaginable in history. the effects of the reforms proposed by the troika require patience and wise consistency. some countries are achieving their goals faster, others are not. all of them, however, show positive trends: a decline in the trade deficit, an increase in competitiveness, and a primary budget surplus. i think that the conclusion to be drawn from the troika's activities so far is that the troika, as an ad hoc instrument, a kind of rapid reaction group, has done its job.
in writing. i agree with the rapporteur, mr cercas, that the focus should now be on measures to create jobs and stimulate entrepreneurship. the huge unemployment, especially among young people, which has been going on for five years, is one of the biggest and most visible effects of the financial crisis. the focus should be on restoring lost jobs and creating new opportunities, including by supporting reindustrialisation. i believe that the best use of the esf, including the 'youth guarantee', should be made to this end, as young people are the group most affected by the continuing poor labour market situation. i would point out, however, that the structural funds alone are not enough to bring about a lasting improvement. member states need to pursue active employment and labour market policies and rebuild the confidence of entrepreneurs, especially smes, in markets.
i wanted to address two issues, because there are many issues that are related to the un human rights council. so first of all, maybe the arab spring countries: egypt is a country that we had and still have many problems with, but i welcome the reference in the egyptian constitution to the issue of minorities, including religious minorities (christian, jewish), when it comes to religious freedom. but we need to do more to make sure that these minorities are actually safe, because we continue to receive reports of violence. the institutions of the state, including human rights institutions, should also be strengthened, so that, inter alia, the national human rights council established can act as the egyptian ombudsman. that's a good example. we also have an example from the eastern partnership countries, where this dialogue between the ombudsmen of the european union member states (france, poland) and the ombudsmen of the eastern partnership countries has borne good fruit. today, we have the iranian nobel laureate shirin ebadi in the house. we had a chance to talk about the basic problems of this country. this basic problem is the execution of the death penalty, up to two executions a day (including public executions, including on minors). it seems that in this dialogue with iran, with regard to nuclear issues, among other things, this element should be very strongly emphasised. first, we should stop the execution of the death penalty, and most importantly, we should stop the public execution of the death penalty. it's a basic human right, the right to life. as for the question of ukraine, crimea has been de facto taken over, but at the same time human rights are being violated there, because the voices of the tatar minority living in crimea, among others, are reaching us. this was their original homeland from which they were deported. so not only the issue of the loudly voiced rights of russians, but also the issue of the tatar minority in crimea.
human rights are still being systematically violated in many countries of the world. in recent months, we have unfortunately witnessed shameful crimes against our own people in the european union's immediate neighbourhood. the brutality of the syrian authorities, led by bashar al-assad, deserves particular condemnation. religious discrimination in egypt, the central african republic, and mali is a cause for great concern. but it is impossible to ignore russia's actions in ukraine. the occupation of the territory of an independent state is a violation of a number of norms of international law. the aggressive and adventurous policy of the kremlin requires a strong response from the union and the un. i hope for concrete solutions leading to dialogue, a complete end to the crisis in crimea and normalization of relations between moscow and kiev. the integrity and security of ukraine is our priority in the east.
in the context of the 25th session of the un human rights council, i draw attention to the deteriorating situation in the central african republic. more support is needed for the un humanitarian relief force and the implementation of the resolution adopted by the extraordinary session of the human rights council. there is also an urgent need for humanitarian assistance for the 9 million syrians. i again call for the referral of the syrian case to the international criminal court for an official investigation. the systematic violation of human rights in the democratic people's republic of korea is to be condemned. more effective opposition to the use of torture and more support for victims are needed. the mandate of the un special rapporteur on torture should be renewed. the commission's report on the implementation of the millennium development goals (mdgs) is a valuable contribution to the debate on the future of the union. there are significant differences between countries, regions and population groups. for example, 73% of the population without access to improved drinking water sources live in rural areas.
during the 25th session, a curious situation arose when russian foreign minister sergei lavrov said that russia's intervention in crimea was dictated by the defense of human rights. this is not the first time that the kremlin has used the pretext of human rights to pursue its own imperial policy and justify it. we must be very careful not to allow various dictatorships (because it is not just russia) to use the noble idea of human rights to justify imperialist deeds, to violate human rights in their own country and to build in this false way a relationship between certain disadvantages in some countries and systematic violations of human rights and aggressive foreign policy.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention to one point: the famous father and friend of the peoples stalin forcibly deported all the tatars from ukraine to kazakhstan, to siberia, with the help of the kgb, more than 300 thousand people. at the time of the jovilzhye, after many years, less than 100,000 returned to ukraine, but they had no land, no property - nothing. what can be done constructively? i know this from my own experience and i think that if the john paul ii foundation helps students of islam, that is people of other religions, to study in european universities, the commission, the european union should help in the form of a scholarship in the education of future tatar elites, specialists and european leaders. i think it's a very specific proposal and we should seriously consider it.
in writing. in the european union, despite high unemployment, there are 2 million unfilled jobs in sectors such as health, information and communication technology, engineering and others. immigration, as one of the ways of filling labour market gaps, is an important factor in the eu's economic growth. the key issues include targeted immigration, internal security, border security and an appropriate integration strategy for migrants. the european union is committed to supporting the development of the union's energy sector, including through the development of the european energy charter. we also need to do more to combat human trafficking and illegal immigration, while guaranteeing the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers. in this context, it is desirable to propose simplifying the structure of the internal affairs funds, improving their functioning and introducing a flexible crisis response mechanism under both funds. a fair allocation of resources between the different areas is important. for example, in order to achieve the key objectives of the asylum, migration and integration fund, as called for by the european socialists and democrats, member states should use at least 20% of the allocated funds for asylum and at least 20% for integration. all entities that have an impact on the operation of the funds should be involved in the implementation and monitoring of the funds. the european asylum support office (easo) is a european union body, which is responsible for the implementation of the european asylum support office (easo).
on behalf of the ecr group. there are still many areas in cyberspace that need to be improved in terms of privacy protection. this is particularly important for the youngest, who are increasingly exposed to the internet and the risks it poses. ensuring a high level of security of information exchanges online is today an absolute necessity as well as a matter of fundamental importance for the proper functioning of the digital single market. a number of services offered on the internet require special treatment because of their specific nature. this is mainly the financial sector, including online banking, as well as healthcare information. the directive requires providers of these services to carry out a risk assessment and take action to enhance safety. this report also sets out ways to ensure effective information exchange at member state level and between specialised agencies. this is to develop a mechanism for early detection of hazards and coordinated action. this is very important in the face of potential cyber-attacks and terrorism. i hope that the proposed directive will significantly improve the security of the internet, while improving its functioning, and will contribute to the development of the online services market.
in writing. the idea of establishing institutions in asian countries to support european entrepreneurs entering the asian market is a very good one and one worth pursuing. the charge that they are ineffective seems to me to be misplaced because they are still too short-lived to be assessed. it is worth noting that the oldest of these in india has been in operation for just over five years, during the global economic crisis. the problem seems to be that only three of these centers have been successfully launched so far. in the interests of the union economy, they should be expected to open as soon as possible in order to support the expansion of european businesses. i agree that the experience of bilateral chambers of commerce is worthwhile in the work of these institutions to find the most effective methods of action. it is also worth continuously improving their operation so that they are adapted both to the conditions of the country in which they operate and to the needs of european businesses. it's hard to expect the same strategy to be followed in china, thailand, or the philippines. the union should also pay attention to burma and the emerging market there, which could be particularly attractive to european investors, as soon as possible. the absence of this country on the list of places where new business centers are to be created seems to me a big mistake.
the union budget is one of the key tools for economic growth and job creation. in some member states it is the main driver for investment in infrastructure and human capital. i believe it is our task to ensure that in 2015 european union funds continue to support member states' efforts to boost economic growth and employment, especially among young people, effectively and efficiently. the youth employment initiative 'erasmus plus' and support for businesses and researchers are long-standing priorities of the european parliament. it is therefore necessary to ensure adequate funding for these activities also in 2015. i must emphasize here the problem of the growing deficit in the eu budget. at the end of 2013, the outstanding payments amounted to well over eur 23 billion. it is necessary to mobilise all the mechanisms provided for in the multiannual budgetary framework 2014-2020. agreements must be respected and it is not only a question of the credibility of the european union, but also of its responsibility towards students, the unemployed, small and medium-sized enterprises, universities, researchers and local communities in the poorest regions of the union, which are beneficiaries of the eu budget.
two things that i think are most important: firstly, the insufficient payments, and secondly, the effectiveness of the budget as a tool to overcome the crisis. we have a growing problem of underpayment. we often determine payments based on political considerations, very rarely based on actual forecasts. i therefore believe that all the measures provided for in the regulation on the new multiannual financial framework should be used. i'm talking about the flexibility instrument and the contingency margin. i would point out that we will not avoid a significant deficit at the end of 2014. the outstanding payments at the end of 2013 amount to eur 23,4 billion. what's the biggest problem? it cannot meet the needs of research, erasmus, or even humanitarian aid. i would therefore like to say that it is in the interest of all citizens, including poland, to ensure that the budget is financed in a sustainable, independent and simplified manner, something which we simply do not have today. the budget is too dependent on the good or bad will of individual member states, including those that are eurosceptic.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. when analysing the future budget, attention is usually first drawn to 'fixed' expenditure, which cannot be circumvented in any way, but is due to previous commitments, and then to current expenditure, but the margin is very small. in this context, i would like to point out that 2015 will be, firstly, the last year of implementation of the n+2 principle in cohesion policy, so we can expect a large influx of claims for reimbursement to the member states, and secondly, it will be the second year of the new perspective, which involves the first payments resulting from new commitments. 2015 will therefore be the year of increased payments or at least payment commitments, and i would like to note that the forecasts very often presented by some member states are seem to be based on the assumption of inefficiency, i.e. we assume that it will not work. that's the wrong way to think. it's getting better with execution, so i suggest that we build our forecasts on the assumption of efficiency, not on the assumption of failure.
madam president, i was glad to have the opportunity to collaborate with mr[nbsp ]deva on development. now i will continue in polish. mam takie wrażenie, że unia ma kompleks na polu technologicznym, nawet odczuwa lęk przed chinami, że mogą nas wyprzedzić w badaniach naukowych. dlatego też w badaniach naukowych dominuje energia i technologia i świadczą o tym sprawozdania tej izby. numerem pierwszym naszej troski jest właśnie energia, ale za mało troski i funduszy poświęcamy na badania naukowe w obszarze społecznym. krótko mówiąc chodzi o jakość życia i zdrowia zarówno w unii jak i w krajach rozwijających się. chodzi o kluczowe słowa: sociological well-being. proponuję więcej pieniędzy na ten cel. po rozmowie z dyrektorem generalnym robertem-janem smitsem odniosłem wrażenie, że będzie on popierał takie projekty. zatem rok 2015 i kolejne lata powinny być temu poświęcone. w przeciwnym razie wrośnie liczba prób samobójczych i nieszczęśliwych ludzi.
in writing. - with the appropriations we have approved in today's vote, we are convinced that the fight against illegal immigration and the security of our borders can finally see a more concerted approach by the eu member states. this new financial instrument combines the three existing funds, namely the european refugee fund, the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals and the european return fund, and will help the eu to achieve two strategic objectives: support for a common european asylum system and immigration control that makes it easier, but allows us to pay close attention to the protection of the security of our citizens. today's political action is a further step forward in the management of this type of emergency, which particularly affects border states such as italy and regions such as sicily.
in writing. - the proposed agreement relates to one of the two funds in the area of home affairs under the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. one of the main objectives of the fund is to improve all aspects of the common european asylum system, as well as to promote legal migration to member states while preserving the integrity of the member states' immigration systems. it is also important to promote the effective integration of third-country nationals, to improve fair return strategies and to enhance solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities between member states.
in writing. - in the context of the new financial perspective for 2014-2020, the eu is working on the restructuring of six migration funds, including the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals and the european refugee fund. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the changes are designed to simplify and streamline the financing mechanism.
in writing. - the hong kong international convention for safe and environmentally sound recycling (hkc) was adopted on 15 may 2009 under the auspices of the international maritime organisation. the convention covers the design, construction, maintenance and preparation of ships in such a way as to facilitate their safe and environmentally sound recycling, without prejudice to safety and operational efficiency. it also covers the principles for the safe and environmentally sound operation of ship recycling facilities and establishes appropriate mechanisms for the enforcement of proper ship recycling. on 20 november 2013, the parliament and the council adopted a new regulation on ship recycling. it aims to ensure the environmentally friendly recycling of ships in the eu, in particular by excluding their dismantling in countries with environmentally harmful dismantling practices. global action is needed to achieve safer and more environmentally friendly ship recycling standards in the eu and it is therefore necessary to ensure the swift ratification of the hong kong convention.
in writing. - the convention was adopted at an international conference held in hong kong in may 2009. the international agreement, drawn up with the significant involvement of the imo, was intended to be a further step towards ensuring safe, environmentally friendly ship scrapping, especially in the light of the ineffectiveness of the existing rules in this area. however, the convention has not yet entered into force, as the number of states that must accept it (by ratification or accession) to enter into force has been set at a relatively high level.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis has affected many eu countries, but not all have been affected to the same extent. in particular, fiscal balance has been disturbed in greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus, and it is important that these countries have received the necessary assistance. in these countries, measures were taken to reduce the deficit, which was to encourage business investment and to eliminate the dualism of the labour market. however, the drastic reduction in social spending imposed on these countries as part of their economic adjustment programmes has in many cases contributed to a worsening of the social situation. many of the expectations associated with these actions have not been met, which requires a re-examination of the likelihood of the long-term projections being realised. jobs have also declined and conditions have worsened. the expected increase in employment has not come on time, as we are only now seeing a slight recovery, which has led to a drastic destabilisation of social security systems. the situation was also exacerbated by public and private sector spending cuts and the lack of an effective system to combat tax fraud. we must remember that the problem of widespread poverty and social exclusion is much more difficult to treat than to prevent. an active employment policy, the repair of the credit system and the establishment of crisis management mechanisms are necessary. social exclusion must be tackled decisively and the long-term unemployed must be given the opportunity to return to the labour market.
in writing. - the bailout of indebted eu countries was linked to the need for reforms. the commission, the ecb and the imf - the so-called troika - are all involved in enforcing the rules. in the light of serious doubts about its activities, the ep carried out an inquiry in which meps examined the situation in the countries covered by the programme and questioned those responsible for the decisions taken. the resolution adopted by econ will be put to a vote in plenary in march.
the economic crisis has caused enormous social costs. hundreds of thousands of people across europe have been deprived not only of jobs but also of the social guarantees that until recently formed the foundation of the european economic model. it is difficult to establish clearly how much of this was the consequence of the budgetary collapse in some member states and how much of it was the result of the tough corrective strategy adopted by the commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund. these disputes will certainly continue for the next dozen years. nevertheless, it should be remembered that the troika's actions were necessary to save the country and the european union from a long-term recession, and the growing crisis required quick decisions. but now that the union and the single currency have been saved, there is a need to rethink what we are doing. the reduction in public spending was very often automatic and did not take into account the long-term social and economic consequences. this mistake must be corrected as soon as possible. a return to growth is not possible without an improvement in the situation on labour markets and without a recovery in domestic demand in european countries. with this in mind, i voted in favour of the report today, as it points to the root of the problems and makes appropriate recommendations for the future.
in writing. - the report highlights the social impact of the troika's actions. the financial assistance plan for countries in crisis did not take into account social aspects such as employment prospects, poverty, access to social assistance, which in the broader perspective determine economic development. the poorest of the poor have been put at risk by the deep cuts in government spending. the reduction in debt has led to a deterioration in the situation of the poorest and an increase in the incomes of the richest. the consequence of this social stratification is that there is no prospect of a solution to the crisis. in the assisted countries, there is high unemployment and an increase in forms of part-time employment such as contract work and unpaid traineeships and internships. the amendments i supported also drew attention to the far-reaching powers of the troika. the eu should not interfere so deeply in the systems of the member states, i mean, for example, in the setting of minimum wages. the report by alejandro cercas and the amendments by the other socialists have been overwhelmingly approved by me.
in writing. - the asylum and migration fund will focus on people flows and integrated migration management. it will support actions related to all aspects of migration, including asylum, legal migration, integration and the expulsion of non-eu nationals staying illegally in the eu. the total budget of the fund is eur 3 869 million.
in writing. - the starting point for identifying priorities in the fight against serious crime is the european union's strategic documents, such as the stockholm programme and the internal security strategy, as well as the security threat assessments carried out by eu agencies, in particular europol (annual report: organised crime threat assessment octa, soon to be replaced by serious crime threat assessment socta).
in the face of worrying developments in the union's immediate neighbourhood, it is of the utmost importance to ensure a high level of security for member states, especially those whose border is also the eastern border of the community. the integration of border management should be an ancillary instrument. i therefore support the proposal to provide financial support to the countries directly involved in these activities. the contribution of the agency frontex, which monitors the situation at the borders and analyses potential risks, should also be appreciated. criticism of the institution, including the proposal to move its seat, is often unjustified. i hope that the visa policy will provide concrete solutions to extend visa-free travel to citizens of the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. - the objective we have set ourselves in working on this report is to ensure a high common level of network and information security. in order to enhance the effectiveness of the proposed measures, the directive should seek to safeguard investments already made in network and information security by avoiding duplication of institutional structures and obligations imposed on market operators. the development of trustworthy public-private relations and exchanges should therefore be supported, and obligations imposed on public administrations and market operators, in particular in the field of critical infrastructure and information society services.
in writing. - the proposal aims to encourage public administrations and economic operators to take appropriate technical and organisational measures to detect, effectively manage and mitigate risks to network and information security (nis). a union-wide cooperation mechanism to exchange information and coordinate prevention, detection and response in the field of network and information security (nis) is essential for all member states. member states should have the capability and strategy to ensure a high level of network and information security on their territory. the critical infrastructure warning networks (ciwin) should also be extended to market operators covered by this directive, thereby contributing to the protection of citizens' privacy.
mr. chairman, please! the directive reflects the free movement of goods in relation to radio and telecommunications equipment. it therefore complements the regulation in the [national] internal market, which is important in view of the significant and systematic increase in the number of mobile devices and wireless applications. the introduction of similar regulations should take into account the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises by ensuring the right balance between effective market surveillance and the avoidance of unnecessary administrative burdens. for this reason, provisions concerning changes in the definition of radio equipment, simplification of declarations of conformity or facilitation of communication between economic operators, market surveillance authorities and consumers merit attention. it also appears necessary to develop a universal charger for each category of radio equipment.
in writing. - the harmonisation of the r & td e directive covers the placing on the market, free movement and putting into service in the eu of radio and telecommunications terminal equipment. the number of mobile devices and wireless applications has increased significantly in recent years and it is therefore important to take action to protect health and safety by preventing harmful interference. only equipment which complies with the requirements of the directive may be placed on the market and member states may not introduce additional restrictions to control the same requirements at national level.
in writing. - this report is the result of an agreement on the harmonisation of available radio equipment and telecommunications terminals and the mutual recognition of their conformity. the proposal is related to the introduction of the new legislative framework (nlf). the report includes alignment of the existing directive with the standards established by the nlf, which strengthen and modernise the conditions for the placing of certain industrial products on the eu internal market. a compromise was reached on the obligation to have a compatible charger for mobile phones, smartphones, tablets, digital cameras, music players and similar devices. for the first time, eu legislation has been adopted requiring manufacturers to produce compatible chargers for different types of electronic equipment. the obligation to produce compatible chargers will bring significant benefits to consumers and significantly reduce e-waste
in writing. - only 28% of 5 ghz wlan radio equipment is fully compliant with european administrative requirements. i present the results of the fifth measurement campaign for wireless local area networks operating in the 5 ghz band. the market surveillance authorities in the member states of the european union carried out the fifth measurement campaign, which concerned the verification of wireless local area network (wlan) radio equipment used for data transmission in local wireless networks. 21 eu countries, including poland, took part. the commission has examined 64 devices, of which 45 were produced in the far east, 6 in the eu, 3 in the usa and 10 were of unknown origin. the audit, which was carried out between 16 november 2012 and 15 march 2013, covered all aspects other than the technical laboratory tests.
in writing. - at this stage, the administration expects that the 2015 budget, as in previous years, will continue to be worked on in a climate of budgetary austerity. it is therefore considered that the cor will no longer be able to claim that as a young and developing institution it needs additional resources. on the contrary, it is already known that, like the other european institutions, the cor will give up 5% of its staff between 2013 and 2017.
russian troops occupy key buildings in the crimean capital, while surrounding most of ukraine's defense forces. moscow has concentrated significant military forces along the entire eastern border of ukraine, which may strongly suggest a willingness to cross it. we have not experienced such a disturbing situation in the immediate vicinity of the community since the end of the cold war. i call on the european union to consider all possible steps to find a positive and peaceful solution to this conflict. i call on president putin to negotiate in the framework of a constructive international dialogue. i would like to draw the attention of the member states to the fact that the integrity of ukraine is a vital element of security and stability throughout europe. a common community position must be developed, including a halt to the supply of arms to the russian army by eu suppliers.
in writing. - the events in ukraine that we have been witnessing for many weeks now call for concrete actions to support ukraine in building democratic state structures and achieving full independence from its neighbours. the signing of the political part of the association agreement announced in the resolution is merely a prelude to further coordination of activities and the signing of the economic agreement. in the current geopolitical environment, we have a duty as an international community to take patronage of ukrainian activities. the first step towards achieving the desired goal of a secure neighbourhood and the broadening of the democratic map of our continent will be the elections scheduled for 25 may. this resolution calls on ukraine not to yield to pressure to postpone the elections. in the current uncertain stabilisation situation, it is necessary to monitor their progress in order to identify responsible representatives of the ukrainian people. every citizen of this country should have complete freedom in choosing his power. in supporting this resolution, i call on the european union, as well as each of its member states, to play an active role in preventing the escalation of the conflict just beyond our eastern border. i am voting in favour of this resolution because we cannot accept unconstitutional and, above all, violent solutions which do not contribute to ending the tragedy of the people there.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty is a very important document for the european parliament, because it recognises the role of the ep as a co-legislator. despite new powers in eu legislation and international agreements and significant progress in relations with the commission, there are still issues that need to be refined and problems that need to be addressed. the quality of communication and information exchange between the institutions appears particularly sensitive, and the system for dealing with legislative initiatives and parliamentary questions and the procedures relating to delegated and implementing acts need to be improved. the facilitation of internal coordination procedures and the determination of the number and scope of the checks should also ensure that the interests of the individual member states are taken into account. the introduction of a rotation system between full and part-time commissioners, which also aims to better reflect the demographic and[nbsp]geographical importance of the member states, may prove useful in this respect. the lisbon treaty also aims to strengthen the eu's democratic mandate. in this respect, it seems reasonable that the decision of the electorate should be clearly reflected in the election of the president of the commission. other actions to strengthen the commission's position and its democratic legitimacy, which will have implications for the effectiveness of its actions, should also be considered. we must ensure that the community's decision-making method is not hindered by changes in the division of powers between the eu institutions.
in writing. - the european union established a strategy for sustainable development in may 2001. in adopting this strategy, the gothenburg european council recognised the need to develop the eu's external dimension. the council also asked the commission to reconsider the union's commitment to sustainable development worldwide. this communication responds to this request and contributes to the eu position at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in 2002. the communication is based on the premise that globalisation is a powerful driver for global growth and[nbsp]for finding solutions to global problems such as health, education and the environment. however, left to their own devices, market forces create and reinforce inequalities, create social exclusion and can cause lasting environmental damage. globalization must therefore be accompanied by measures to avoid or minimise these effects. in the key areas of trade, development finance, environmental governance, the fight against poverty and crime, it is necessary to continue efforts to develop common rules which should be effectively implemented and monitored. global governance should also be improved, i.e. fostering more effective implementation of interdependence.
policy coherence for development is a recognised element of global policy. by integrating the different dimensions of development, the european union can play a leading role in crucial areas such as the defence of human rights and the continuous improvement of living standards in different regions of the world. i look forward to further progress in these areas, particularly in the areas of population growth, food security, combating illicit financial flows and tackling migration. i am glad that our parliament is also becoming more and more involved in the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. - the positive effects of development cooperation can easily be overridden by the negative effects of bad policies in other areas. first of all, european policies - including foreign and security policy, trade, agriculture and climate - have a huge impact on the situation of developing countries and should therefore be designed to support the development of the global south, or at least not to hinder efforts to reduce poverty in these countries. developed countries must pursue policy coherence for development (pcd) if they are serious about their development commitments and objectives and are concerned that development cooperation funds are not wasted.
in writing. - at the next summit, we must make our position on two issues clear. the first is condemnation of russia's invasion of crimea and attempts to destabilise ukraine. the second is a protest against attacks on christians and the increased persecution of christians around the world, increasingly also in europe. none of the resolutions on the ballot meet my expectations. that's why i decided not to support them.
the author. - the issue of human rights by the russian authorities with president putin at the head has been a serious concern for years. just mention the case of mikhail khodorkovsky or the recent law on foreign agents. the aggressive policy towards georgia and ukraine is complementary to the kremlin's image as a destabilizer of this region of the world and europe. this situation requires a coherent and[nbsp]coordinated approach in the relations of the community and the individual member states with moscow. the several years of prison sentences for participating in the demonstrations are strongly condemned. it is not in the canons of a democratic state of law. nor is it a coincidence that they were announced after the olympics. such events exemplify the deepening restrictions on freedom of speech and assembly in an increasingly authoritarian-ruled russia. i hope that the kremlin authorities will fulfil the international obligations arising from russia's membership of the council of europe and the osce and act in the spirit of universal human rights. i expect an end to the repression of citizens and a guarantee of full freedom of expression. the russian judiciary must immediately carry out its duties with impartiality and independence, guided by the interests of civil society.
on behalf of the ppe group. during the current session of the european parliament, we are once again warning russia. we have adopted a very strong and very firm resolution on ukraine, and more specifically on russian aggression in ukraine and russian behavior towards ukraine. the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee decided to cancel its trip to russia and talks with representatives of the duma, considering that there was no suitable political climate for talks. now we have another resolution regarding the demonstration in mud square. i think this is a clear signal not to the russian people, but to the russian authorities, and in particular to president putin, that he should turn back from violating basic rights and democracy.
on behalf of the ecr group. moscow is showing its true face, but we know that face in the european parliament. there have been debates about human rights violations in this country. fortunately, the european parliament is more aggressive and straightforward on this issue, unlike, say, the council of the union or the european commission, commissioner! we encourage you to be bold in this matter. but it should be said clearly that putin is afraid of the maidan in moscow, afraid of the revolution and hence the brutal repression of the demonstrations, which are not so numerous. i think we must speak very strongly on this issue, but not only here. it is time to impose sanctions on russia, and this is obviously a matter for the council and the commission, as i am writing to the commissioner's post.
a few years ago, i attended a conference on the history of human rights. i heard a surprising proposition. according to one scholar who has studied the global human rights legal system, one of the documents that best described and protected human rights was the constitution of the soviet union, although it was a theory. in practice, the protection of rights enshrined in the soviet constitution was a complete fiction. the constitution was just a piece of paper. the russian federation cannot and should not continue the disgraceful traditions of the soviet union. the russian constitution, the european convention on human rights and other human rights documents signed by russia cannot be treated by russia as pieces of paper. it's an affront to the dignity and prestige of the russian state. it is in the interests of russia and its citizens to respect the international commitments voluntarily undertaken by the russian authorities.
when we discuss another case of human rights violations in russia, it is impossible not to mention the recent events: the aggression in crimea and the issue of ukraine. i agree with my colleague richard czarnecki that the verdicts that were handed down in the case of alexander navalny ilyanuszin in particular are not accidental. the point is to effectively intimidate civil society, effectively intimidate those who want to peacefully fight for real democracy in russia. that is why we must protest so strongly today and demand that russia, as a member of the council of europe and the osce, respect human rights. we must demand that the convicted be granted amnesty, because the fight for human rights is today a fight for the future of russia. it is worth launching the european external action service and informing civil society in russia - it is a real society - that human rights are being violated.
the bog shows what putin can do and what he does with human rights. as a russian and a child, the kgb is trying to expand the so-called "lebensraum" for russians in the ukrainian crimea at the expense of the tatars. stalin deported all the tatars to siberia, few of them returned, it was illegal, took their land. and now putin, with the so-called referendum, is pushing them to the margins again, and protesting is not very profitable for them, because the bołotnaja square incident is a good warning. the interviews with the tatars that you can see on tv right now tell how tragic their situation is, how they are being manipulated and that they have nowhere to go and crimea used to belong to them. i'm glad that the left side of this or just this assembly is beginning to understand russian politics.
the author. - we are obliged to take a strong intervention against uganda and nigeria and to condemn these countries for the legislation adopted in december 2013. we cannot accept that in the 21st century countries which have extended cooperation with us, whether political, commercial or developmental, commit such flagrant violations of human rights as are taking place in nigeria or uganda. as an example, it is enough to give a sentence of 10 years of imprisonment to persons who only participate in meetings of homosexual, bisexual and transsexual people or publish their images in newspapers. in contrast, homosexual acts are punishable by death in 12 states in nigeria. what can we as a union do? we have effective sanctions under the cotonou agreement with the african and caribbean countries and i call on the european union to intervene decisively in this matter at the eu-africa summit on 2 and 3 april.
on 16 january, we adopted a resolution in parliament condemning the decision of uganda and nigeria to criminalize lgbt communities. the new regulations stipulate that same-sex marriages, witnesses to the ceremony and people involved in gay rights organizations will be punished. the actions of both countries are contrary to the universal declaration of human rights and the cotonou agreement, including article 9 (2). the european union, in its continuing aid to developing countries, should require them to respect universal human rights and fundamental freedoms. in this context, i call on the european commission to review the rules of cooperation with uganda and nigeria, including the cotonou agreement. in addition, all future agreements between the union and third countries should contain clauses explicitly referring to the obligation to respect the fundamental freedoms and liberties of the individual, including the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. i would remind you that 30 ... (the president withdrew the member's vote.)
thank you so much! we need to look together at the cotonou agreement and the issue of harsher criminal sanctions for lgbt groups. this is indeed a violation of human dignity and rights and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. so i think we should absolutely stop development aid and strengthen the support channel for ngos. this should be a clear signal to these countries that agreements and[nbsp]provisions cannot be violated. i believe that such pressure from the european union can be absolutely effective, and it all depends on whether we make development aid conditional on changing a very harmful and very strict law. so i'm calling on you to think about stopping government aid and keeping aid to ngos.
the author. - since the overthrow of president mohamed morsi in the summer of 2013, the sinai peninsula has seen an increase in the activity of armed groups and the threat of terrorism. last year, there were more than 250 attacks on egyptian security forces and energy infrastructure, killing more than 100 people. neglected for years by the central government in cairo, the problems of the bedouin inhabitants of sinai, the deteriorating living conditions and the growing poverty must have led to the riots we are witnessing today. the sinai is not only a transit point for the mass arms trade, but also for people. between 2009 and 2013, some 30,000 people were deprived of their liberty, mostly african migrants, including women and children who were forced into labour or prostitution. the current situation in the peninsula is a matter of grave concern to the international community, especially as the ongoing security threat in sinai could trigger a crisis in relations between egypt and israel. the sinai peninsula urgently needs a comprehensive economic assistance programme for the bedouin community and enhanced cooperation between neighbouring states in the region.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! the situation in the sinai peninsula is indeed worrying. the influx of migrants from africa is exacerbating the trend of criminal groups, which are most likely to affect the innocent, the uneducated, those who are unable to cope with the new conditions, especially women and children. this is the first aspect of this great disturbing phenomenon that has intensified. the second is, of course, the peninsula's geographical and geopolitical context. it's part of the impact on israel and egypt. the egyptian authorities are unable to deal with this huge problem. the situation is also very worrying from the perspective of the security of european citizens. we know that the polish and german foreign ministries strongly discourage travel to the region by european union citizens, so we must send a strong signal and force the egyptian authorities to do more.
in writing. every year, thousands of refugees and asylum seekers decide to flee eritrea and seek refuge in israel. most of them never get there. they are being abducted by terrorist groups based in the sinai desert. all, including women and children, are tortured, raped, killed, or suffer while waiting for the ransom to be paid. the situation in this region of the world constitutes a flagrant violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms enshrined in articles 3, 4 and 5 of the universal declaration of human rights, among others. as representatives of democratic countries where human life and dignity are of the highest value, we cannot remain indifferent to these events. in this resolution, parliament calls on the egyptian and sudanese authorities to continue to intensify their efforts to combat trafficking in human beings, to use all available means to restore security in sinai and to identify and prosecute those responsible for these inexcusable abuses. parliament also called on the authorities of these countries to respect their international obligations. i support this resolution and at the same time i would like to express my full approval of the efforts so far by egyptian and israeli human rights organisations to provide support and medical assistance to the victims of the incidents, as well as the efforts of the egyptian government in the form of the establishment of the national coordination committee to combat and prevent trafficking in human beings.
in writing. i welcomed the report by mrs willmott on facilitating the conduct of drug trials in the european union and the rules that will increase the transparency of such trials. simplification of procedures will make it easier to carry out research in europe and prevent it being transferred to third countries. this will not only increase the competitiveness and innovation of the european economy, but also ensure the highest ethical standards in the conduct of drug trials. the creation of a common european electronic platform where information on the studies carried out will be published will significantly accelerate the search for new medicines. researchers will not be forced to retest specific products that have been tested and found to be ineffective, as they will find information on the results of other researchers in the system. the new rules on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use should be widely supported not only by professionals, doctors and pharmacists, but also by the european community as a whole.
in writing. – regarding the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use, and repealing directive 2001/20/ec, i would agree that the current system is flawed. the european union has always been progressive in the field of medicine and it would appear that the 2001 directive has begun to hinder the medical field. as stated in the report: ‘between 2007-2011, the number of trials carried out in the eu dropped by 25[nbsp ]%, with many trials moving to emerging markets. not only does this have dire economic consequences, but it hinders the advance of medicine to the detriment of patientsʼ. the current directive is hindered by its legal framework in that it suffers from being implemented differently from one member state to the next. there must be consistency, which will be helpful for those working on rare diseases and will provide a better situation for those working across multiple borders. another important change will be the reduction in current bureaucracy. above all the health and safety of our citizens is very important. this new directive has the protections in place that the 2001 version did not.
mr. chairman, please! in order to fully exploit the potential for increased competitiveness and employment offered by the digital single market, the role of telecommunications in all sectors of the economy needs to be enhanced. after three itre regulations in six years, we have finally changed the retail roaming charges for voice, sms and data. the obligation for operators should enter into force in 2016. the main achievement of this regulation is to ensure that the internet remains open. in other words, users have the ability to access and distribute information or use any application of their choice. in addition, for the first time, the regulation includes a definition of net neutrality, which states that net neutrality on the open internet means that traffic should be treated equally. the agreed text also strikes a balance between open access to the internet, where transparency and non-discrimination are ensured, and thus allows the market to continue to develop new innovative products such as specialised services. the proposed regulation also guarantees that specialised services will not in any way harm the open internet, and at the same time the proposed solutions do not allow for the concealment or imposition of additional fees for specialised services. furthermore, internet service providers must not have a detrimental effect on the quality of the existing service.
in writing. there are de facto 28 electronic communications markets in the european union, which differ in terms of licensing conditions, business regulations and consumer protection. this prevents the emergence of a fully functioning digital market, in particular for the provision of cross-border services. given the increasing importance of electronic commerce, fragmentation prevents us from realising the potential of the single market. the commission's efforts to improve the situation in this area are therefore to be welcomed. however, i am not convinced that we should standardize all practices in the area of end-user rights. this is the case with this regulation, where articles 25 to 30 give the commission the power to adopt implementing provisions in this area. on the one hand, this will deprive national regulatory authorities of a number of competences, and on the other hand, it may reduce the effectiveness of the actions undertaken. however, i hope that the european commission will try to take the specificities of local electronic communications markets into account as much as possible when preparing the rules.
madam president! the rapporteur has done a great deal of work in evaluating the stockholm programme and i respect that, but unfortunately there are a number of proposals and comments in this report which are difficult to support. i think that in some points this report departs from the very content of the stockholm programme and, for example, the remarks on the electoral system for the european parliament, the single-member constituencies, which are made in this report, are statements which should not be made here. these are internal affairs of the member states, there are different traditions, different electoral systems, and there should be no interference at european level. another proposal of this type is the european public prosecutor. i'm totally against the idea of creating an institution like this. we should be improving existing institutions, not creating new ones, and the prosecution is already an institution of the superstate. we don't want that kind of superstate.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? may i ask that those colleagues who do not wish to participate in the debate, the very important debate, on european union aid to ukraine, please leave the room or take their seats? i think the subject is so important that we should focus on the european union's aid. madam president! my dear friends! my dear colleagues! but above all, ukrainians who in ukraine, from lviv to lugansk, fight for the integrity and sovereignty of their state! dear friends and brothers! i would like today's debate to be a very loud voice from the european parliament, which will come to you and give you strength in your fight for what is sacred to us in the european union, but for what we have already won some time ago - for freedom, for democracy, for fairness in the economy, for fairness in the state, for the integrity of the country. you on the maidan - those who died, those who fight - are a model for us, how today we can fight for the values that have always been the most important to us. we have spoken many times in this house about how to help your country. how can we help your great country, which today is a hope for all of us, a model for all of us of how to put european values into practice, in the struggle? so how can we help you win, how can we help you effectively stand up to those in the kremlin who want to impose their will, their power, on you? well, today is the day. today we're not just talking about how to help you, how to comfort you, but today we're talking about how to do it in a concrete way, how to help you. you have a huge task, you have adopted a great reform programme, very difficult reforms, very costly reforms, also socially costly, we know this very well. but we want you to know, you ukrainians, our friends, that the european union does not present its ideas without any cost, only so that you can imitate them, that we are also able to take part in this fight and in these costs. that's why i want you to remember that when we talk about eliminating tariffs, reducing tariffs on your products, that's our european contribution to your fight. we welcome you very much from this place, and i ask all those who will be taking part in this debate to support the project tomorrow unconditionally, without any amendments. that we support him and show the ukrainians that we are united in this house to support a free, sovereign, integral ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. it should be that the european parliament, after a decision which has already been taken by the council, after a decision which has already been taken by the commission, does not create any additional barriers. if the gentlemen on the left had read the preamble to the association agreement, they would have found that all the things they want as additional conditions are there and that they have already been signed by the ukrainian side. if you had looked further into the association agreement, you would have known that there was no need to impose any additional conditions. these additional conditions are only to delay the procedure today, and our objective is the opposite. our aim, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly this: to show this time that we are able to overtake putin, so that it does not turn out again that we are coming with our european values, in this case a very important issue the abolition of customs duties, to show that ukraine has a chance to be in the european common market in the future in full. today it is just a gesture, but how important it is for those who export, how important it is for those who will be able to save. and we have an opportunity today to show that to ukraine, we have an opportunity to get ahead of putin for once and respond in the right way. and you gentlemen have another idea. you have an idea to show that we will make extra conditions and that we will arrive late as usual. ukrainians, those from the maidan and those who watched the maidan on tv, are waiting for this train from europe to arrive on time for once in history, and we are definitely going to help them in this. have a good one!
madam president! last week, exactly six days ago, we had the opportunity, together with mr president kowal and a number of other colleagues, to be in kiev for the interparliamentary cooperation committee of our parliament and the works council. it was the day when prime minister yatsenyuk presented the reform package. the reforms necessary to reform the ukrainian economy, the package of reforms necessary to save this country from bankruptcy. we've seen the heated, hard political debate in parliament. we didn't understand the arguments of the opposition against the proposed changes, but we saw and understood the ukrainians protesting outside the parliament. these reforms will be difficult. these reforms, as in eastern european countries, including poland, are likely to bring socially controversial solutions for many ukrainians accustomed to a centrally controlled economy and guaranteed work. that's what the russians are counting on. not just military intervention, but social unrest that they can use to destabilize the situation in ukraine, to regain control of that country once again. that's why we have to hurry with our offer of tariff elimination, broad economic cooperation, financial support. we must give a hand to the ukrainian government because it is acting in the interests of the good of this country, the good of the ukrainian people, the good of the european community.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i am very grateful to those colleagues who, from the right to the left, from the greens to alde to the ecr - and i am not talking about my epp group - have supported the ukrainians who want to join our european community. thank you so much for this! this is extremely important, we are setting an example here of solidarity with the ukrainians who are risking the greatest sacrifice to join the european community. i also wanted to address my colleagues from the far left of the communist party, the gue, at the outset. it is true that for you putin's cold look is more important and more impressive than all those in ukraine who are fighting for the realization of european values in their country. but you're already in it, i'm afraid. i am addressing my fellow socialists, with whom we have taken important decisions on many occasions concerning the european union, european values and their spread outside europe, in the world. my dear friends! it is that today is this moment of trial, this moment in which those who are on the side of europe, are on the side of values, are on the side of ukraine. what commissioner de gucht said. your amendment leads to a trilogue, your amendment leads to the fact that these customs preferences will not be, and therefore there will be no signal that can go out from this house to the ukrainians, a signal of the content: yes, we are with you. so your amendments are really in the kremlin's interest, because you're right: labor rights, civil rights are threatened in ukraine, but it's not the ukrainian government that's threatened, it's not the ukrainian parliament that's threatened, it's mr. putin, it's the kremlin, it's the russian government that's threatened. to them direct your attention, to them direct your attention. oh, shame on you, gentlemen of the left!
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i am the rapporteur for five reports on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget for the financial year 2012 from the committee on budgetary control, i.e. the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman, the european data protection supervisor and the european council and the council. i am happy to cooperate with the institutions except the council. all institutions provided detailed information and no major problems were found with regard to expenditure. i would like to highlight the positive dimension of cooperation between the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. the administrative cooperation agreement has led to savings in administrative costs and more efficient management, and reduced translation work. i asked the institution to provide the exact amount of savings resulting from the cooperation. unfortunately, as every year, the council's not doing so well. the council's approach continues to show that it does not respect parliament's responsibilities as the budgetary control institution. the council continues to refuse to answer parliament's questions, to provide insufficient information and to fail to appear at meetings. the missing documents concern important issues such as the human resources management activity report, the anti-fraud policy or the costs of the europa building and the residence palace. i would like to ask you again in my report to provide this information. i would point out that, in the absence of the necessary information, the european parliament is not in a position to take a decision on discharge. i would like to stress that the efforts of the greek presidency and the european commission to reach an agreement between parliament and the council should be appreciated. during the discharge process, taking into account the recommendations of last year's report, the committee on budgetary control decided to forward the questions put to the council to the european commission. in addition to the standard questions on expenditure and the organisation of the institutions' work, the questions referred to the provisions conferring on parliament the function of budgetary control. in my report, i refer to the european commission's response to this matter, which stressed that all institutions should cooperate to ensure the smooth running of the discharge procedure. i have tabled an amendment proposing that a meeting of experts be held on a legal analysis focusing on parliament's budgetary control function and the council's responsibilities in the area of cooperation in the discharge. i also propose in the future an own-initiative report identifying possible amendments to the treaty. both initiatives are preparations for referral to the court of justice and for possible amendments to the rules on discharge to the other institutions as described in the treaty. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise once again that the purpose of conferring a budgetary control function on the european parliament is to oversee the proper use of taxpayers' money. all institutions shall be subject to such supervision and shall cooperate in the discharge.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. well, this debate is very important. this debate, as it is held every year, is a kind of evaluation of the quality, efficiency and, we might say, order and discipline of our union. if we were writing a state of the union, i think that would be a very important contribution to that report. the picture we have here is not monochromatic, but the bright colors definitely predominate. i think we should thank the court of auditors for its consistent work, and the rapporteurs for their work and conclusions. there is one important issue on which i would like to concentrate, namely cooperation with the council on discharge. the council has consistently refused to cooperate with any presidency, whether it be a big or small state, rich or poor. which begs the question. who really rules the council? or the presidency? the president of the council? or someone else entirely? because i see no reason why the council should refuse to cooperate. parliament is the representative of the people. we have the right to be asked that by our constituents. we have a duty to respond. and we can say, "the council is not cooperating". i would also like to make a kind of appeal to the council: we have just heard that the council has a positive opinion of the commission, and so on. the council is not only for evaluation, the council should also be evaluated. but the mistakes that commissioner šemeta was talking about... i am very pleased with the actions such as the suspension of programmes, the demand for reimbursement of funds, etc. this is a very good sign, but it will be at the level of the member states. and again, the council, you're not just on the sidelines. i would like to make one final point on mr piper's report. i would ask that we accept this report with the 16th amendment by derek vaughan, which mitigates the negative tone, that is to say, that it speaks badly of bulgaria or romania. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. ...that you can get the impression that this is a double standard, because only these countries are mentioned in some context, in this negative context. there was no tradition of reporting, we would address the states as appropriate. so i think we shouldn't promote any kind of double standards. the amendment which i (mr derek vaughan) have asked for support for is therefore a proposal which retains some of the assessment but without any wording which would have a negative impact on the commission's actions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. and in this important report, there's a new political idea, which is a political reservation about different policies. the political reservations are about regional and agricultural policy. this idea was introduced for the first time in the budgetary control procedure and, as we know, it generated a strong response from the european commission. the commission was afraid that parliament would postpone its discharge. in the end, these political reservations were expressed in a weaker form than in the draft report. now it is shortcomings in the commission's obligations towards the member states. in the future, it would be worth reconsidering the introduction of a similar structure of political objections to the budgetary control procedure, as they represent a much stronger emphasis on the role of the european parliament, its recommendations to the european commission. that's the direction we should go.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to let you go. i was surprised to hear you speak because (as i recall from our committee) you never had any objections during the presidencies of mr pöttering and mr buzek. and then people were appointed, and then there were different opinions about parliament. do you not think it is unfair that you are now raising this issue just because martin schulz is our candidate for president of the commission? is this a good forum for this kind of political warfare?
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to reiterate that i recommend that the four institutions i have dealt with, namely the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor, be discharged, with the exception of the council, on which i propose that this discharge be withdrawn and not granted. i believe that parliament cannot accept a situation in which its treaty-given functions are openly ignored by the council. parliament should maintain the position that the council cannot be treated differently from the other institutions. by refusing to grant discharge, by consulting the european commission on the matter and by proposing further steps to clarify the situation, we are sending a clear signal that we cannot accept the council not wanting to disclose its expenditure in a transparent way.
in writing. global warming is one of the greatest challenges facing developed countries and can only be tackled through concrete international action. aviation is responsible for about 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions, and these levels are rising rapidly. the international civil aviation organisation (icao) estimates that this level has practically doubled between 1990 and 2006. in addition, the lack of concrete action on this issue will cause it to increase to 1900 mt by 2040. the commission's proposal to include aviation in the eu ets, covering all flights that take off from or land in europe, was a fair, temporary solution to this problem. although this assumption was strongly criticised by third countries, the judgment of the european court of justice in the case brought by american airlines showed that this was fully in line with international law. however, this does not change the fact that it will be necessary to find a global agreement at icao level on this matter and to develop an international system of market measures in the coming years. in this context, the european commission should engage in talks with third countries promoting accession to the emissions trading scheme in the years leading up to the global agreement. in addition, other actions will also be important, in particular the establishment of a single european airspace, which would reduce delays and discrepancies in air traffic control.
member of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of my colleague, michel barnier, who cannot be here tonight as he has to attend the informal ecofin council meeting in athens, i would like to congratulate parliament on the swift progress that has been made in recent months on both proposals in this payment package, part of the single market act ii. your support for the commission’s proposals shows that you share the ambition of the commission to achieve a well-functioning payment market. this efficiency consists of finding the optimal balance between innovation, fair competition, secure payments and consumer protection. efficient and secure payments are important for social inclusion but also for the promotion of growth and jobs. let me now briefly turn to the two texts – first of all, the revised directive on payment services (psd2). this will integrate in the same legal framework traditional market players and certain new providers of online payment services. the latter, the so-called third-party payment service providers (tpps), offer consumers the possibility to pay for their online purchase by means of simple electronic credit transfers. this is a good example of innovative payment solutions which are good for consumers and companies. the inclusion of tpps in the scope of the existing directive will ensure that all payment providers are subject to adequate regulation and supervision and ensure competition on equal terms between different actors providing payment solutions. the commission has noted with interest your proposal to provide a mandate to the european banking authority for the development of a single interface for the communication between tpps and other payment service providers. this approach would address the security concerns that have been raised by certain banks. it would also ensure a safer level playing field between the different market players. the commission also welcomes the fact that the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) supports the extension of the scope of the directive in different areas, for example by extending the scope to so-called one-leg transactions, meaning that only one part of the transaction has to take place in the european union in order for the directive to apply. this will in particular benefit all those citizens who use money remittance services to send money to their home country outside the eu. i also share the view of econ that it may be useful to review the details of this extension after a certain period of time. with regard to interchange fees for card-based payments, i am happy to note that the econ report broadly supports the proposed regulation. the commission has been working on this proposal for a long time. whilst some operators have criticised it, the proposal was particularly welcomed by consumers and retailers. in addition, the proposal provides the necessary legal certainty which some market operators have been asking for. we hope that clear rules on interchange fees will also encourage new market entrants in the eu card market, which remains dominated by very few actors. finally, we believe that this proposal will encourage innovation around electronic card-payments. this is an important contribution to the digital agenda and europe 2020. the majority of the amendments proposed by econ will clarify and strengthen the impact of the initial proposal. one of the shadow rapporteurs, mr terho, proposes that the rules on interchange fees should apply only to cross-border transactions. this would not be effective. we are trying to create a true internal market where there is no difference between a national and a cross-border transaction. with regard to debit cards, the introduction of an additional absolute ceiling of 7 eurocents per transaction – above the initial cap of 0.2[nbsp ]% of the transaction amount for debit card transactions – goes further than our proposal. as the lower of the two amounts will apply, the interchange fee for transactions of more than eur[nbsp ]35 will be no higher than 7 eurocents. merchants and consumers will benefit from this approach, which will contribute to encouraging the development of large-scale electronic payments. the commission would therefore be open to revising its opinion. the econ report also proposes extending caps from consumer cards to commercial cards and to some cards issued by three-party schemes. the commission’s proposal focused on consumer cards only. we believe that commercial cards and three-party scheme cards are of much more limited use. thus, we are not convinced that the same type of legal caps should be extended to these cards as well. however, we are willing to consider this further. in any event, this is a matter that we will continue to look at during the legislative process. to conclude, the commission welcomes the progress made on these important files. we hope that similar progress will be made in the council in the near future, so that both legislators can work towards a speedy adoption of this package, to the benefit of consumers, merchants and the economy at large.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. high interchange fees are one of the obstacles to market development and may discourage the use of payment cards. moreover, by raising prices, they have a negative impact on consumers and businesses. some member states have taken steps to lower these ceilings, which demonstrates the need for regulation in this area. as rapporteur for the imco opinion, i support the objectives set. i welcome the introduction of a temporary exemption for newly created payment systems from the provisions of article 7. this will allow them to compete fairly with existing, well-developed payment card schemes. i also consider it extremely important to ensure market balance by introducing rules on domestic and crossborder transactions at the same time, with a reasonable deadline for their entry into force. this will give companies time to adapt to the new requirements.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i was going to start by congratulating and thanking you, but if the high representative will allow me, i will address a few words to my colleague who was speaking before me and is sitting behind me. my dear fellow! i wanted to say that we are celebrating 15 years of poland's accession to the north atlantic treaty, and i wanted to say that polish citizens are proud of the fact that we are in the north atlantic treaty, and polish citizens feel safe because of this fact. we are an active member of nato and this is happening with the support not only of a very large part of polish society, but also with the support of all polish political forces. there is no serious political party in poland that questions the need for us to function within nato and also within the european union, of course, because we are celebrating the 10th anniversary of membership at the moment. as for politics, one sentence on the politics of mrs catherine ashton. i wanted to say that i understand how difficult it is, with all the ambitions of the member states, to pursue a common european union policy, but you have succeeded and, as henry kissinger once said, he needs a phone call to europe, and for the last five years it has certainly been a phone call to you.
your highness! my 'your movement' party is campaigning for the european parliament under the slogan 'more europe, more european policy, more european security and defence policy!' your report shows how much has been done, but also how much more could have been done, how much more could have been done if the member states had agreed, how much more could have been done if there had been no resistance from the brussels bureaucracy. we remember the difficult birth pangs when the european external action service was born. one more thing: this institution needs, needs new staff. we still lack the experienced, the excellent diplomats from the new member countries, we still lack the representation. there were promises, there were stories that these people would find each other. those who have been in the foreign service are doing very well, but there are not enough of them, and it is a great commitment for the next term to make up for that shortfall.
during the debate it was stated that after ukraine we have a similar situation, a psychologically similar situation, as after the fall of the berlin wall. there's a lot of truth in that. today, when we talk about foreign and security policy, we ask ourselves what the dynamics of that policy should be, after what happened in ukraine, after this experience. how can we prevent europe from fragmenting? how do we deal with the defense, how do we deal with the territorial integrity of our neighbors? the union's test is the effective assistance to ukraine, both political and economic. the immediate signing of the free trade area agreement, including the implementation of this well-received package of financial assistance, but also the acceleration - and i stress this - of the association agreements with georgia and the signing of the association agreements with georgia and moldova. that's very reasonable. the question is whether we will be united in our diversity, because besides the annexation of crimea, the military threat, we also have the problem of energy security and economic relations. we have examples of different definitions of interests, of departure from the common position of the union as a whole. the question is, are we ready for an energy community, for example? i congratulate mr danjean on his report and agree that we need to define a strategy, set priorities and coordinate well.
mr president, mr minister, i have to go. a few weeks ago, radosław sikorski, the polish foreign minister, was in iran, and there was a rather amusing but also sad event. well, at the press conference, minister sikorski talked about cooperation with iran, economic cooperation, he talked of course about the nuclear program, but he also talked about human rights, he also talked about freedom of speech and censorship in iran. and then he tweeted about that, about human rights, about freedom of speech and censorship. and this tweet was censored by the iranian authorities, meaning that only part of what minister radosław sikorski wrote appeared in the tweeter space. and this, of course, is a small thing, but it's a small thing that there is still a lot of work to be done in iran, in terms of the internal situation, in terms of the treatment of minorities, in terms of human rights, in terms of the rights of journalists, and these are things that we have to pay attention to in iran. on the other hand, i agree with the idea of our report that iran is a sufficiently important country in that part of europe that we must try to bring iran gradually into international cooperation, as the talks with iran progress, of course, as the talks on nuclear energy progress.
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that the european union is trying to seize the opportunity that has arisen after the recent presidential elections in iran, when it became clear that the new president rouhani is interested in talking to the international community about the nuclear program. it is important that iran credibly abandon its nuclear weapons program. this is a condition of normal, good relations that the international community can establish with iran. but it's good that we've taken this path, that we're not naïve, but we're cautious, we're conditional on this path, because iran is a country that can contribute to solving many of the international problems in its region, and the problems that it very often caused. so, without being naive, let's go this way, let's take this opportunity!
in writing. - it is perhaps surprising that after so many years of the european social fund, neither the member states nor the european commission have developed mechanisms to evaluate the effectiveness of european funds spent on the activation of older people and activities related to active ageing. in an age of aging societies, of challenging labour markets, of technological advances, we cannot afford to ignore the potential that older people have. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i was the author of the opinion on the report by mr balcytis, and i would like to express my strong support for the conclusions and recommendations contained in the final document prepared by the committee on budgetary control, which i supported in the vote. and we talk about the need to constantly learn new skills, to keep up with technology and the increasingly computerized world. people my age need training and help to stay in the job market. more and more member states are introducing pension reforms aimed at extending working life. in this respect, we can achieve greater results with the european social fund, but to improve the efficiency of the use of funds, we must first create mechanisms to evaluate the instruments currently in use.
in writing. - the arrest and subsequent death in custody of sergei magnitsky cast real doubts on the independence and impartiality of the judicial institutions in russia. not only was sergei magnitsky imprisoned without a trial but, according to reports by two independent investigations, he was subjected to inhumane prison conditions, deliberate neglect and torture, which probably resulted in his death. being a member of several international organisations, russia has committed itself to protecting and promoting human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. unfortunately the specific case of sergei magnitsky, among other cases, highlights many shortcomings in respect for the rule of law in the country and its implementation. russia is an important strategic partner for the eu, that fact is indisputable. nevertheless, the eu has a responsibility to uphold and foster values of human rights and democracy. i therefore support the recommendations in the current report, asking for the establishment of a common european list of russian officials believed to have been involved in the death of sergei magnitsky. i support the proposal, following on from that, to ban these officials from entering the eu and bar them from benefiting from any financial assets they or their immediate family might hold within the eu.
in writing. - the new digital and online media platforms have increased the diversity, pluralism and accessibility of information, allowing it to reach out to people, including in countries where the freedom of the press is restricted. this trend can be employed for the promotion of democratic values, media freedom and human rights around the world. moreover, it can be used as a means to communicate eu policies, shape european perspectives and provide the audience with reliable information. in line with this understanding, the current report proposes to make use of european broadcasting media to achieve these objectives. particularly, the report advocates establishing a coherent and robust eu media broadcasting strategy in the context of the eu’s external relations that will: provide a platform for exchange of opinions and debates; support media independence; and help train future leading journalists in the eu and beyond. equally important, the report asks to define and organise the public service broadcasting remit to develop an independent and professional broadcasting media environment in third countries too. these recommendations are important for the advancement of professional and objective broadcasting media in the eu and across the world, therefore i voted to support the report.
in writing. - i have voted in support of the council’s position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the sound level of motor vehicles and of replacement silencing systems, and amending directive 2007/46/ec and repealing directive 70/157/eec (17695/1/2013 – c7-0060/2014 – 2011/0409(cod)). this regulation will help the environment by limiting air and noise pollution levels. it will be implemented on all vehicles in three phases with the first starting on 1 january 2017, which will, for example, result in a reduction to a 68db limit value for passenger cars. as was the concern of many of my colleagues and myself, we have insisted on and got approved protection for the blind and other vulnerable people through the installation of appropriate vehicle alerting systems in electric vehicles. also, the parliament and council have agreed that such systems should be mandatory; it has been agreed that this will apply to new vehicle types within three years following the date of application of the regulation and within five years for all electric and hybrid electric vehicles.
in writing. - the european union needs effective instruments and a solid legislative foundation to strengthen its ability to enforce its trade rights. the union is currently suffering from a lack of an adequate horizontal legal framework to provide the tools to defend compliance with wto and other international agreements. the adoption of the relevant rules will not only broaden the scope of the action, but also make it possible to enter new markets more safely. the eu has only resorted to retaliation on a few occasions in the past few years, but the problem is also the timing of the response. currently, in the absence of a suitable horizontal legal framework, decisions are adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, which takes between 15 and 31 months. the scope and the proposed remedies should be carefully considered, but speed should also be considered. the sooner the eu receives this instrument, the sooner it will be possible to start a more efficient trade policy. the union should also have at its disposal certain means to enable it to pursue activities related to the service sector. even now, there are trade disputes in which the eu could consider applying remedies in this sector. it should be borne in mind that the rail sector is one of the key and fast-growing sectors of the economy and its inclusion in the area of union competence in question would have a positive impact on the union's credibility by enabling it to enforce its rights efficiently.
in writing. - actions to promote and achieve development will be an area of particular interest to the european union in 2015. this does not, of course, mean that the development before and after 2015 is underestimated, as action to promote it is continuously present through many forms of union action. the various actors involved in development should alert the public to the fact that one in five europeans is suffering from poverty. the year 2015 should be an opportunity to renew a sense of solidarity between people, where it is not about where you live or what colour you are, but about the challenges facing families and communities. it is not possible to solve all the problems of disparities in development once and for all with a single decision or programme, but this objective must be constantly borne in mind when implementing different types of action. ngos and youth organisations play a significant role in improving people's living conditions and in strengthening development cooperation. the use of their motivation, creativity and real potential to make a positive difference should be given special consideration when deciding on the allocation of available resources.
in writing. - ensuring the safety of the food supply chain is a delicate and precise task. when it is proposed to replace the many legal bases relating to it with new, uniform financial rules which would be in line with the new multiannual financial framework and the lisbon treaty, particular care and precision are required. nevertheless, the objective of rationalising overly complex and diffuse rules will be an obvious facilitation and improvement. a uniform and simplified financial framework will be of great help in the planning and management of activities related to the food supply chain, the area of crop production, animal health and welfare, plants and plant reproductive material. after all, more effective programming and implementation often directly translates into food chain safety. this regulation should contribute to a better protection of the level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain. the extent to which this objective is achieved will also depend on the level of preparation of the national authorities in the field. however, the training programme to which they are subject should also be extended to private sector operators, in view of the benefits of disseminating that information and promoting uniform standards to ensure consumer protection. the introduction of possibilities to support union reference laboratories and projects aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of official controls could also be beneficial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2009/71/euratom establishing a community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations (com(2013)0715 – c7-0385/2013 – 2013/0340(nle)). i feel strongly that nuclear power is a vital and important tool for the production of energy and feel just as strong about using it safely and efficiently. thus, i share the opinion of the rapporteur in that ‘the prevention of incidents and accidents as well as an efficient response in case that an incident or accident do occur. accident preparedness and coordination in case of an accident should be at the very core of nuclear safetyʼ. following the accident at fukushima, the eu carried out stress tests on all nuclear power plants resulting in all of them being deemed safe. to continue this pattern, and more importantly improve even further upon safety standards, it is vital to combine technical improvements with wider safety issues such as governance, transparency and on-site preparedness and response. we should not however underestimate the value that nuclear power brings but by the same token we cannot forget that nuclear power can be dangerous; thus this directive provides for all safety concerns.
in writing. - the stockholm programme sets out the european union's priorities for 2010-14 and aims to meet future challenges and further strengthen the area of justice, freedom and security through concrete actions targeting the needs of citizens. the lisbon treaty and the legally binding eu charter of fundamental rights provide a solid constitutional basis for achieving these objectives. however, some of the areas covered by the programme require additional efforts, especially in terms of law enforcement. in addition, the commission should develop mechanisms to monitor the proper implementation of the justice, freedom and security (jfs) procedures. all binding union objectives must be based on an interinstitutional agreement, as provided for in article 17 of the treaty on european union. it will therefore be necessary to introduce greater transparency so that the european parliament is properly informed at all stages during the conclusion of international agreements. the stockholm programme calls for the development of an internal security strategy for the eu to enhance the protection of citizens and to combat organised crime and terrorism more effectively. in this context, it is necessary to strengthen border controls to counter illegal immigration and cross-border crime while ensuring access for persons in need of protection and vulnerable groups. in conclusion, the union should promote the highest level of protection of human rights and respect for fundamental civil liberties. the consistent implementation of the stockholm programme must reflect the needs of citizens for equal opportunities and gender equality.
in writing. - advanced international coordination is a key issue for the effectiveness of the actions expressed in the agreements on the area of freedom, security and justice. consistency between internal and external human rights policies will also be necessary in the context of fundamental rights. in order to achieve the desired effect, the effective functioning of monitoring mechanisms is necessary, which will ensure public oversight of the strategies implemented on an ongoing basis. the assistance of third countries is also important, but it is important to ensure that the information is obtained in a fully legal and humanitarian manner. it is unacceptable for the union institutions to turn a blind eye to the manifestations of a breach of the space of freedom of nationals of a given state, especially in the context of the implementation of union agreements with third countries. for this reason, the eu should not sign agreements on an area of freedom, security and justice with countries where there is little chance of compliance. the identification by the european commission of areas vulnerable to corruption in the member states will, on the other hand, make it possible to combat corruption more effectively and strengthen the foundations for the development of a society with high standards of transparency and integrity. corruption not only affects the economy by hindering its development and preventing healthy competitive behaviour, but also has a negative impact on human rights. this is of course true both for member states and for third countries.
in writing. - the proposed changes to the emissions allowances will facilitate eu air carriers' negotiations on a global emissions agreement planned for 2016. the agreement contains several key elements, such as the definition of the duration of the intra-european scope. the commission will be required to review and propose new rules to better align the aviation rules system after its expiry. the exemption for non-commercial operators emitting up to 1000 tonnes of co2 per year is noteworthy, and will significantly reduce the administrative burden.
in writing. - climate change and greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are two interrelated problems that need to be tackled on a global scale. europe has been at the forefront of attempts to solve or at least mitigate this problem for several years now through the icao process at global level and the adoption of the eu ets at european level. the goal is to drastically reduce global emissions by 2050 to keep global temperature change within 2 degrees. this requires the aviation sector to participate in efforts to limit climate change alongside other modes of transport.
in writing. - pollution caused by aviation does harm our environment. therefore i support the intelligent european transport policy, which entails choosing the most suitable mode of transport for the distance which has to be covered. however, i understand that from today to tomorrow it will not be possible to construct a european high speed network for rail which could act as a substitute for most inner-european airline movements, therefore i voted in favour for extending the ‘stop the clock’ until 2016. i do not want to harm citizens by bringing in higher travel costs without giving them another solution.
in writing. - most of us would probably agree that the reduction of interchange fees should therefore have a positive impact on the development of the payment services market. unfortunately, there are concerns that the reduction of these charges will benefit mainly certain groups of large groups, while the costs of the whole operation will be passed on by the banks to final consumers and the sme sector. the reduction in interchange fees may also lead to an increase in card-related fees by banks or the introduction of new cost items. it is therefore important that, at the implementation stage, the impact of the regulation on the increase in bank charges and other costs passed on to consumers and smes is monitored and that swift action is taken. in this context, it is also important to exclude from the scope of the regulation business cards which are used in relations with other entrepreneurs. the use of this product is very important for the business activities of small operators and the inclusion of these cards in the scope of the regulation may consequently lead to an increase in the cost of handling these cards, to a reduction in their availability or to a reduction in the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises. that's why i voted to reject the 19th amendment today.
in writing. - the level of transactions involving non-cash payments is one of the indicators of a country's economic development. paper transactions play a crucial role in the functioning of economies as they are fast, secure and innovative. the use of these payment systems for the purchase of goods and services online increases consumer choice and contributes to the smooth functioning of the economy. it is therefore desirable that the right conditions be created in the eu for the development of a card acceptance network, to try to intervene on interbank fees in order to avoid the cost of these being ultimately charged to them.
in writing. - i supported the report on charge cards because i thought it was a good report. it is important that issues such as the charging of card payments are at least minimally regulated at community level. this will benefit consumers, retailers and the idea of competition in general. it is unacceptable that consumers are charged with additional, excessive costs when they make a purchase, if they choose to pay by card. on the other hand, it is also unacceptable that the sellers should be charged with these costs. i'm pleased that we were able to vote to set the maximum rate of charge for card payments at a reasonable level.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. the legal provisions on fees for payment by card in the different member states are diverse and often unclear for consumers. the aim should be to simplify and harmonise the rules as much as possible. the interchange fee report for card-based payment transactions is exactly in this direction. the setting of maximum interchange fees at 0,3% of the transaction value for credit cards and 0,2% or 7 euro cents for debit cards is a limitation that will put pressure on the payment card issuers. in addition, the provision allowing retailers to choose which cards they accept at their points of sale will encourage issuers to lower their prices. this will certainly benefit consumers. harmonisation of rules also at the level of cross-border transactions will allow for the protection of payment card users. i consider this report to be very valuable and i support it. the reduction of interchange fees is a support for both individual consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. it will certainly help to boost the european economy and make life easier for millions of consumers. the report on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions is a step forward and sets the direction for further legislative action.
in writing. - a single market for all retail payments is to facilitate innovative payment services via cards, the internet and mobile devices. this is particularly relevant in the case of increasingly common foreign transactions in the union. i am pleased that this report has included a number of very important amendments. first, it was possible to prevent the charging scheme from being extended to charitable donations made via sms. member states were given the option of extending the period of entitlement to reimbursement of direct debits beyond the eight-week limit proposed by the commission.
in writing. - the creation of an integrated single market for electronic payments, carried out in the greatest possible security, is essential to support the economic growth of our union and, at the same time, to ensure that consumers, entrepreneurs and businesses can determine their purchasing behaviour in terms of transparency and in relation to the payment services they offer. for this reason, in order to promote and implement our policy choices in order to achieve an increasingly secure and less bureaucratic internal digital market in the european union, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the report on payment services in the internal market is an important report because it takes account of the technological progress that is still being made, but it is also important because it aims to better protect consumers. this protection will include both the appropriate information to consumers, inter alia, on the time of the transaction or on the possible exchange rate, and protection in the strict sense in the event of non-authorisation of a payment, the consumer has the right to a refund of such a transaction. i welcome the outcome of the vote, as it will allow us to continue working on this issue after the european elections in may, without having to start from scratch.
in writing. - a single market for electronic communications will enable the continent to be connected. today, roaming charges, which are often considered unjustified, remain the most pressing problem for citizens. the proposal to abolish them completely is contrary to public expectations. this will make it much easier for people to communicate and will also reduce the cost of doing business. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's digital economy.
in writing. - the european telecommunications market has long lagged behind other areas of european integration. we have managed to unify the market for goods and services, the movement of people and capital. we are creating a common european airspace and rail freight and passenger services. however, in the era of mass electronic communications and despite the significant unification of the telecommunications service providers sector in the eu, instead of a common european telecommunications market, we still have 28 separate markets. today we put an end to that state of affairs. we are complementing the traditional freedoms of the european single market with the freedom to use a telephone comfortably throughout the union without fear of any additional costs. for too long, eu citizens have had to count every penny spent on calls, sms and data when travelling abroad. as europeans travel and migrate more and more, it is unacceptable for telecommunications companies to maximise their profits without incurring any additional costs associated with europeans using their phones abroad. the european parliament thus demonstrates its ability to effectively protect the interests of its citizens. we have been working for a long time to abolish roaming charges and i am glad that this successful cooperation with the european commission has been brought to an end. in just over a year, we will be able to use mobile phones cheaply and without any obstacles throughout europe.
in writing. - we live in a schengen europe, where, despite the absence of actual borders between countries, there are still barriers to telecommunications. when we travel abroad, we have to pay extra to talk to our loved ones. the increased rates also apply to sms and mms and data transfers. another communication barrier we may encounter when using communication applications on the internet, as studies show that some isps block communication applications, such as skype. the internet was supposed to be a medium that was open to all, non-discriminatory and neutral. every user in the european union should have equal access to all the services and information that are on this global platform. i therefore strongly support the amendments introduced by the pilar del castillo vera report on the european single market for electronic communications. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the new rules will be a significant step towards making fast communications more accessible to consumers. the new rules will foster the innovation and competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. - the elimination of roaming is an obvious achievement of the telecommunications package, which will be felt by the citizens of the member states. that is why we have supported this demand from the beginning of the report's proceedings and in today's vote we have supported amendment 208. the package also covers other issues of importance to the telecommunications market. we decided to support it in the final vote, despite reservations about the effective fight against criminal content on the internet. at the request of the left, the guarantees for national law regarding the removal of criminal content from the internet were removed from article 23 by adopting amendment 236=243. deletion of point 3. this article is without prejudice to union or national provisions on the legality of information, content, applications and services transmitted is an error. in the area of internet traffic management, it was limited to court rulings, once again deleting the reference to national law in this area. this is an unnecessary interference with national law in the delicate area of preventing the dissemination of harmful and criminal content on the internet.
in writing. - the rapidly growing digital services market still faces procedural barriers. one of them is the lack of precise regulation of electronic identification, which results in a low level of mutual recognition in this area. meanwhile, a well-functioning electronic transaction authentication mechanism across the union is a key action for the proper functioning of the single market. the proposed solutions will contribute to increasing legal certainty in the area of trust services and to enhancing the level of security, which in my view will translate into an increase in the volume of electronic transactions.
in writing. - the electronic identification system for cattle is a functional and handy solution. the benefits of this approach include improving animal traceability and facilitating herd management. in order to allow the full potential of this technology to be exploited in all member states in the future, it is necessary to ensure its widespread use and the harmonisation of technical standards in advance. this will avoid inconsistencies in the implementation of the identification method and the lack of overlap between national systems. the electronic identification system of cattle in itself allows the registration of cattle to be accelerated and the related tasks to be automated. electronic identification allows for more reliable data and is therefore a more efficient system. it allows for increased traceability and therefore also advances in food safety awareness, which is an additional argument in favour of it from the consumer's point of view. despite the benefits of electronic identification technology for bovine animals, it is not appropriate to make it mandatory as soon as possible. it is necessary to take account of the very different situation of cattle farmers in the eu. individual member states may of course decide to introduce it on their territory, but in other cases this system should remain voluntary for the breeders for the time being.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the objective of this directive is to establish a common framework for measures on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure in the union in order to break the dependence on oil and accelerate the reduction of emissions in the transport system while maintaining minimum requirements for the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure taking into account common technical specifications. the eu's efforts in the field of standardisation are crucial given the broad cross-border dimension of this directive. the long-term objective will be to reduce emissions from the transport sector. more than 90% of the energy used in transport was derived from oil, with 84% of oil coming from exports. the proposed solution, through the construction of a minimum network of alternative fuel refuelling points, including the availability of lng refuelling points in maritime and inland ports; the expansion of the hydrogen refuelling points network; the densification of the cng refuelling points network (currently 3000), which is currently used by close to 1 million vehicles on the roads in europe, is an opportunity to create a breakthrough in the mutually blocking market conditions. i hope that the implementation of the directive will generate positive socio-economic effects in the form of: progressive investment processes; the mass production of vehicles with alternative drives and increased competition between car manufacturers, which will provide an opportunity to lower vehicle prices, which will undoubtedly benefit consumers; the development of the alternative drive market, which can stimulate demand for further development of research and innovation in the automotive industry.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jörg leichtfred, on a very good report. i also wanted to congratulate him on the success he had in this chamber when vice-president karas basically accepted that the demands which had been put forward here, namely more voluntary action by the states, more concern for health, more competence and the role of citizens living near airports, that not some uniform criterion should be imposed, but that the criterion of the type of aircraft, the frequency of flight, the noise generated should be the decisive factor. finally, vice-president karas has agreed to the general principle that we should not have too much of the union, but just enough to meet our needs, and that citizens should not tell us, especially now during the election campaign, that the union is imposing something on us. the union gives us a general framework and it is true, this requirement is fulfilled, its implementation is left in the hands of the citizens. i think this is a great achievement of this regulation and of the debate that has taken place here. it is good that we emphasize the health aspects, it is good that we emphasize the comfort of life of the citizens associated with the fact that we have air traffic, and at the same time this annoyance in terms of noise. however, it is also good that we do not directly touch small airports, because air traffic is still to be generated in many countries.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate all the rapporteurs, in particular mrs paulsen, with whom i had the honour of working as a shadow rapporteur. very good report! i am particularly grateful for the amendment to make registration of dogs, including stray dogs, compulsory. unfortunately, we have a dramatic problem with this in many european countries. we've been getting some very dramatic news lately about what's going on in romania. identification, sterilization, adoption is the only right course to take to address this problem in a humane way and in the interest of public health. secondly, in the light of mrs paulsen's report, i would like to draw the commission's attention to the situation with regard to the russian embargo on pork imports from poland and lithuania, because it is linked to the fight against african swine fever, but it is only apparently linked, because russia has applied a completely different... (i am sorry, mr president, i thought i had a minute and a half, that is what i was told; i would ask for an extension of another half minute.) this is a political situation, there is no reason to impose an embargo when african swine fever is in russia and coming from russia to the european union. i ask the european commission to take this matter up urgently and to break this embargo, which has no basis.
the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 15 april 2014 at 6.00 p.m. the vote on the resolution will take place on thursday, 17 april 2014, at 12.00 noon.
mr kelly, as you will remember, the rule is that a maximum of five speakers are allowed to take the floor so i gave the floor to five out of nine speakers. i am sorry, but you were not the first from the epp group who asked for the floor. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the effective fight against unemployment remains one of the most important and timely challenges facing both the european union as a single body creating the common market and the individual member states. it must be admitted that, despite the visible signs of economic recovery, we are not always able to combat unemployment to the extent that we can effectively counter the effects of the economic crisis that still affects us. it is important that member states put in place solutions to facilitate the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. they are, to a large extent, in all sectors of the economy, generating growth and creating jobs. it is important not only to remove the bureaucratic barriers that restrict the activities of existing smes, but also to make it easier for new companies to be set up. reducing the often unnecessary formal requirements in this area and minimising the time for future entrepreneurs to wait to obtain the necessary authorisations to operate should be one of the priorities that will help to stimulate the economies of the member states. i therefore draw particular attention to this issue, alongside the many important issues raised in the resolution, and i call on the commission to put particular emphasis in its contacts with the governments of the member states on the need to facilitate the activities of small and mediumsized enterprises, since this will have a measurable impact on the recovery of the european economy.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 150).
despite the political questions surrounding fidesz, let me congratulate you personally because i know that you were heading the campaign.
mr. chairman, please! we are attending the last plenary session of the european parliament of this term. his term of office began with the unfolding global economic crisis. the crisis has also affected european countries, although in different ways and to different degrees. the end of his term coincides with a serious political crisis affecting security in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union, with regard to ukraine and the actions of russia. in both crises, the european union has been and is very active, and that is good. but we cannot help but ask questions about our effectiveness and what lessons we can draw for the future. and while these crises are different, and they have different causes, we are ill-equipped to overcome them. it is not just a lack of procedures or principles of action, but a lack of something extremely important, a real, complete unity of the european union.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
the next item is the report by mr jean-luca dehaene and mr ivailo kalfin, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the negotiations on the 2014-2020 mff: conclusions and further action (2014/2005 (ini)) (a7-0254/2014).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 15 april 2014 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
madam president, i would like to thank all those involved who made it possible to put in place these two pieces of legislation with european unity at heart. i would also like to thank colleagues for staying clear of deepening further euro/non-euro divisions and keeping the internal market together. so-called opt-ins will be protected in the single resolution mechanism (srm) by having a say in the decision-making process where banks on their territory are concerned. the single resolution fund will also be able to borrow on capital markets, a measure which can to some extent compensate for the fact that non-euro member states do not have access to the european stability mechanism (esm). i am also pleased that the non-discrimination clause which was added to the text will ensure a fair treatment of those outside the system. the relatively rapid build-up of the single resolution fund is good news, as is the quicker merging of national compartments and the enhanced dose of democratic legitimacy we have incorporated into the system. a final comment on the bank recovery and resolution directive (brrd): i think another reason to be happy is that we have managed to balance the home-host relationship. i am reassured that the srm and brrd will enable europe to make a significant leap ahead on the financial stability front, which is – as we all know – equally important as a precondition for growth.
mr. chairman, please! we should adopt this regulation on consumer product safety as soon as possible, and that requires a quick and good compromise with the council, because we want the consumer to have a well-founded confidence in the european market. our continued good functioning, jobs and the further development of the european economy depend on this. i'm voting for the "made in" label because it will improve product safety, help fight counterfeiting. consumers will get more information, and they want it. i also think that, in the light of all this, we should work even further on the definition of made in that we have proposed here, and perhaps some product groups should be exempted from this obligation. and let's also remember that it's not necessarily the country that's responsible for the quality of the product, but often it's the distributor, the manufacturer or the importer. i also take this opportunity to thank commissioner mimic for his recent visit to krakow, where he had a very serious discussion with the businessmen, which they were very pleased with. many things have been clarified and their position taken into account.
in writing. the proposed consumer product safety regulation is so important that surveys show that as many as 27% of europeans consider a significant number of products on the market to be unsafe. we will certainly have to work further on the controversial article 7 of the made in mark in the legislative process. the idea of introducing this labelling is a good one, but the most important thing is to implement the law. our priority should be to provide consumers with clear and reliable information not only about the country of origin of a product, but also about whether the product is safe and tested. very often it is not so much the country of origin as the manufacturer. i'm concerned that the way to identify a country as "made in" is quite complicated. we therefore need to give consumers reliable and clear information about how we define country of origin. often a product is the result of a production process in several countries and the 'made in' label is then decided by the 'last significant economically justifiable working or processing' principle. the consumer must be aware of this. as production standards in eu countries are quite similar due to eu legislation, it is a good idea to allow the use of the 'made in eu' mark. sometimes information about a specific place of production can be relevant for consumer behaviour because of persistent stereotypes about certain member states.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that this report by mrs ferreira has been voted as a significant step towards protecting taxpayers, as have the reports by mr simon and mr hokmar. we cannot allow a situation to reoccur where taxpayers, citizens, are the ones who are paying the cost of a crisis caused by banks and speculators. the banks should bear these costs, as should their shareholders and creditors. we need a banking union with its mechanisms so that our citizens feel safe no matter what the situation is with their bank or with other banks. i congratulate all three rapporteurs.
madam president! the systematic improvement of product safety is a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the single market and fair competition. the issue of adequate consumer information is of particular importance here, especially with regard to the increasingly new products and services. in this context, the emphasis should be on the effective enforcement of rights, for example under the directive on misleading advertising. the rapidly growing market for postal and courier services in the union requires the acceleration of the implementation of more efficient processes leading to cost reduction and quality improvements in this sector. increasing competition in the internal energy market is in the interest of citizens and businesses. the rights arising from the energy package should therefore be reflected in clear and precise offers and contracts, which will significantly strengthen consumer protection.
in writing. - the amendments put forward emphasise the importance of public services and the importance of protecting consumer rights, taking into account the already existing telecommunications, energy and postal legislation. the commission also stresses in its report the importance of the member states' competences and their role in enforcement.
in writing. - better use of inland waterways will benefit all sectors of the european economy. it will benefit inland waterway operators through a more transparent legal framework, improved working conditions, a regulatory framework to stimulate innovation and increased access to the financial resources the sector has accumulated in the reserve fund. in contrast, industry and inland waterway users will benefit from the high quality of services in this sector. increasing the economic attractiveness of inland waterway transport and improving its environmental performance will bring better health conditions for europeans and environmental improvements.
in writing. - in the face of russia's extremely aggressive policy towards the eastern partnership countries, our political action is necessary, as well as economic support for these countries. the partnership and cooperation agreement with georgia will enable georgia to participate in selected community programmes and thus support reform, modernisation and transformation in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. i am convinced that it will also contribute to the expansion of links with europe, to the strengthening of people-to-people contacts and to the development of sectoral cooperation. it will also significantly strengthen political relations within the partnership itself.
in writing. - the european court of auditors delivered an opinion on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 of 13 march 1997 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the member states and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters. the objective of the draft regulation is to ensure the proper application of the union's customs and agricultural legislation by equipping in particular the commission, but also the customs authorities and other bodies in the member states, with more effective mechanisms to assist it in preventing, investigating and prosecuting acts which infringe customs and agricultural legislation.
in writing. - the adopted report on the amended proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and of rules on information society services was intended to harmonise the acts contained in the original directive. one of the most important tasks in the implementation of the single market is to prevent the adoption of national technical regulations and standards which could create additional barriers to trade. in this context, the main assumption of the original directive was that member states would agree to consult the european commission and other countries on new legislative proposals before their potential adoption. over time, the legislative review procedure was gradually extended to all draft technical regulations and standards on industrial, agricultural and fishery products, allowing the free movement of goods. information society services were also included in the procedure due to the need to create a monitoring mechanism for this dynamically developing area. however, member states have retained a large degree of possible freedom to prevent obstacles to technological development in this sector. the harmonisation of the acts contained in the directive will further advance the achievement of the existing procedure, which has contributed both to streamlining national legislation and to identifying the areas of law where harmonisation is necessary.
in writing. - each national standardisation body shall notify the commission and the other european and national standardisation bodies referred to in the annexes to this directive of its draft standards or of amendments to existing standards. the commission may also require the submission of national standardisation programmes, which will then be made available to other member states.
in writing. - the ata carnets department deals with issues related to the functioning of the international customs document, the ata carnet, and the tasks arising from the national chamber of commerce's function as a guaranteeing association in the ata system. the ata carnet department is responsible, among other things, for the correct issuance of ata carnets, the provision of all kinds of information on the operation of the system in poland and worldwide, the ongoing cooperation with the international chamber of commerce in paris, the polish customs administration, polish customs offices and chambers of commerce in 71 countries acting as national guaranteeing associations. the ata carnet is a special international customs document which enables and facilitates the temporary clearance of goods exported for acquisition and exhibition purposes, as well as professional equipment. the ata carnet eliminates the complex customs procedure associated with temporary release. the cardholder does not have to complete the sad, customs declarations or deposits at all borders crossed. this document was prepared by the customs cooperation council with the assistance of the international chambers of commerce office of the international chamber of commerce in paris.
in writing. - i thoroughly welcome the shift2rail initiative. the european parliament’s positive vote has shown that not only railway experts have understood that the rail sector needs support when it comes to research. i hope that this funding, which will be heavily co-financed by the railway sector, does not only go into the development of high-speed trains but also into conventional trains and infrastructure. in this context, i hope that the railway sector can use those funds not only for strengthening the export of the european railway industry but also making their products more attractive for customers inside the eu.
in writing. - under the 'shift2rail' initiative, the european commission will more than triple its spending on rail research and innovation to €450 million between 2014 and 2020, compared with €155 million in the previous period. the budget will be supplemented by a further eur 470 million from the railway sector. the main objectives of the 'shift2rail' set by the commission are: reducing the total life cycle costs of rail transport (i.e. the costs of construction, operation, maintenance and repair of infrastructure and rolling stock) by up to 50%; increasing the total processing capacity by up to 100%; generally increasing the reliability of the services; improving up to 50% depending on the rail market segment.
in writing. - the egf aims to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the pattern of world trade to find new employment as quickly as possible. the fund, set up by the european union in 2007, will have a budget of up to 500 million per year. the egf may finance actions under an active labour market policy focusing entirely on the provision of assistance to workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, for example through: job search assistance, career guidance, personalised training and retraining, including it skills and the certification of experience gained, assistance for supervised dismissals and promotion of entrepreneurship or self-employment, specific time-limited measures such as job-search allowances, relocation allowances or allowances for persons undertaking training courses and training, motivation measures, in particular for disadvantaged or older workers, to enable them to stay on the labour market or to re-enter the labour market. applications for funding shall be submitted by the member states. individuals or companies facing job losses and wishing to benefit from the support offered by the fund should contact the relevant national authorities.
in writing. - the deposit guarantee schemes framework is one of the three pillars of the banking union. the goal of this legislative proposal is to safeguard deposits under eur[nbsp ]100 000 in eu countries by a solid ex-ante funding for national funds, financed by banks and not by taxpayers. the text, which forms the compromise of the negotiations between the ep and the council, contains several important elements: (1) deposit guarantee schemes to guarantee deposits under eur[nbsp ]100[nbsp ]000 should reach 0.8[nbsp ]% of covered deposits in 10 years. they should be funded by 70[nbsp ]% of contributions in cash and banks’ contributions should be defined according to the risk profile of banks. (2) payment deadlines will be cut from 20 working days to 7, with a transitional period up to 2024. (3) contributions to the deposit guarantee scheme will be based on the level of the covered deposits and the level of risk of the member institution concerned. (4) depositors will receive clear information on the amount covered, the corresponding guarantee scheme, how to contact it, and all relevant information in the event of insolvency. these elements of the proposal are of high importance in protecting taxpayers and stabilising the eu’s financial system; for these reasons i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - europe's heavy dependence on energy supplies from third countries is not beneficial to the eu's long-term development plans. the investments in renewable energy and the increase in public awareness of this issue over the years are aimed not only at protecting the environment but also at reducing its dependence on it. greater diversification of energy sources and greater security of supply will have direct implications for economic growth, jobs, competitiveness and innovation. the decarbonisation of transport and the wider use of alternative fuels will require significant investment in the necessary infrastructure. the development of this sector requires eu support because of its compatibility with its environmental objectives, but also because of the difficulties faced by the development of the alternative fuels market. the main areas for support are technological problems, infrastructure gaps, still insufficient levels of social acceptance and the lack of pan-european technical standards. the degree of development of the alternative fuels sector in the eu varies from one member state to another. it is appropriate to place greater emphasis on the development of national strategies for the development of the necessary infrastructure and the formulation of long-term perspectives to enable more effective planning and action by administrative bodies and economic operators. the quality of alternative fuels and the continuous awareness of the advantages and benefits of their wider use should also be ensured alongside infrastructure development.
in writing. - innovative alternative fuels are a measure that will certainly help to increase the resource efficiency of the european economy, reduce its dependence on oil and prepare the transport sector for the challenges of the 21st century. 94% of european transport is dependent on liquid fuels. more than 80% of them are imported. the eu wants to diversify energy sources in transport not only for environmental reasons, but also because of the huge costs (around €1 billion a day) of buying imported oil.
in writing. - i am very content with the outcome of the vote, and especially that my initiative of harmonising the loaded length of specialist vehicle transporters found support in parliament. very soon, a truck transporting vehicles will be able to cross internal eu borders with two more cars loaded on board.
in writing. - the european parliament is currently examining a draft european commission proposal to amend the rules on the permissible parameters of vehicles in international traffic in the european union. amendments are planned to council directive 96/53/ec of 25 july 1996[nbsp ] laying down for certain road vehicles circulating within the community the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic. the changes are not only to be made to the parameters of the vehicles, but also to the rules for automatic weighing of heavy goods vehicles, the possibility of allowing 45-foot containers to be transported without permits for non-standard vehicles to pass through, and the possibility of using aerodynamic devices in heavy goods vehicles. these are a number of important changes which will have a significant impact on the ability of carriers to operate and compete in the european union's common transport market.
in writing. - after three months of negotiations, the european parliament and the council reached agreement on 20 march on a regulation on a single resolution mechanism, including a single resolution fund, to protect taxpayers from future bank failures by breaking the link between governments and banks. this new framework for resolution will apply to all banks in all participating member states and will be fully implemented as of 1 january 2016.
in writing. - under the current legal regime, which is set out in the ucits iv directive, all assets of a ucits fund must be placed in the custody of a depositary. the depositary shall be liable for losses incurred as a result of failure to perform his duties, although both the full limits of this liability and the detailed scope of the duties have been specified by the legal systems of the member states. this type of regulation leaves dangerously wide scope for divergent interpretations of the provisions of the directive by national law and leads to a situation where ucits investors face unequal levels of protection across different jurisdictions. the question of the depositary's liability arises where the custody of the assets of the ucits is entrusted to a sub-depositary and gives rise to undue difficulties of interpretation. the current system of sanctions also shows considerable divergences. moreover, the current remuneration policy contributes to short-term decision-making and encourages excessive risk-taking.
in writing. - we have decided by an overwhelming majority to ensure that all persons legally resident in the eu have access to basic payment services. now banks will not be able to refuse to open a basic payment account on the basis of your place of residence or nationality. importantly, even a person who does not have a permanent address in the eu but is legally resident here will be able to open such a basic bank account. it also welcomes the fact that the conditions and fees associated with these accounts must be transparent and easily comparable, and that consumers will have the right to simply transfer their account to another financial institution if that financial institution offers them a more favourable offer. i hope that the member states will formally adopt the rules resulting from this vote.
in writing. - payment accounts, whose functions will be almost the same as bank account capabilities, can be provided by private companies licensed by a national payment institution. so far, eight entities have received such licenses told us maciej krzysztoszek from the press office of the financial supervisory commission, which grants licenses. there are dozens of other companies waiting in line to receive applications, including mpay, sky cash and masspay. today, they operate, usually on the basis of an uncomfortable solution called a "virtual wallet". so they promise themselves a lot after the payroll. i hope that soon many customers will come to the conclusion that they do not need a bank account. they will be replaced by a payment account, to which their salary will be transferred, says piotr warsicki, president of mpay and head of the polish organization of non-banking payment institutions. this would allow customers to use the transaction system without the intermediation of a bank or a payment organisation such as visa or mastercard.
in writing. - investment products are complex and therefore can be difficult to compare; it can also be difficult to fully understand the risks involved. the consequences of taking unplanned risks and incurring losses as a result can be devastating for consumers, given that such investments often represent a large part of the consumer's life savings. given that the eu retail investment market is worth up to eur 10 trillion, buying the wrong products can quickly become a huge problem.
in writing. - the report adopted today concerns the second part of the legislative procedure amending the statute of the court of justice of the eu as regards the number of judges. in recent years, the number of new cases entering the courts has been steadily increasing and exceeding the number of cases decided. the only exception was in 2012, when the number of pending cases was 617 and the number of cases decided was 688. the data clearly show that the court is no longer able to cope with the workload of the accession of new member states and the increase in the number of admissible types of action. the need to increase the number of judges in the court is therefore an unquestionable issue. according to the court of justice, the current number of judges should be supplemented by a further 12, which seems to be the right solution. the union's contribution to the budget of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 5 million. each additional judge post, together with administrative costs, represents an expenditure of around eur 1 million per year. the final number of judges is not the most important thing. the issue in this context was the manner in which they were to be recruited, given that not all member states would be able to appoint more than one judge. in this context, i agree with the rapporteur that the best way to solve this problem is to select new judges on the basis of their professional qualifications, rather than their country of origin, where each member state will be able to propose its candidates.
in writing. - the court was set up to support the court of justice and to provide citizens with better legal protection. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it has been the judicial organ of the court of justice of the eu. it was formerly known as the court of first instance. the court of first instance is composed of at least one judge from each member state, currently 27. unlike the court of justice, the court does not have permanent advocates-general. the court of justice shall sit in chambers of five or three judges and, in certain cases, in a single judge. it may also sit as a grand chamber (thirteen judges) or as a full court, where the degree of legal complexity or the weight of the case so requires. in the vast majority (over 80%) of cases brought before the court, the court rules in a formation of three judges.
madam president! at present, only a small number of vehicles are equipped with ecall. however, it should be an efficient system of emergency calls in all member states, enabling rapid assistance to be provided at the scene of an accident. in the context of a pan-european service, this will allow the potential of the measures to save the lives and health of citizens to be used more efficiently. it is estimated that full use of the system will cut the response time of emergency services by almost half. broad information activities should also be considered in order to disseminate the system to the public. it would be necessary to present the functionalities and the possibilities of using this service in the individual member states.
in writing. - the decision to launch ecall is linked to the ecall in-vehicle regulation. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the ecall system is compatible with the national network. i'm glad to accept your offer. the ecall will undoubtedly contribute to reducing the consequences of road accidents. in 2012, some 20 000 people lost their lives on eu roads and a total of 1.2 million were injured. the cost of road accidents is estimated at around 130 billion euros per year. the ecall will reduce the response time of emergency services by up to 10 minutes, and reduce the time to reach victims by about 40% in rural areas and 50% in urban areas.
in writing. - we need to open up because this is a very important issue for competition and development. it is important to establish a policy on the networks and their opening. it is imperative to understand this principle, which is the starting point, that the network should be open. it's worth considering the regulations for each component. it would be worthwhile to take more account of the issue of more openness of the network, more services provided to individuals.
in writing. - inland waterway transport achieved a high market share in 2001 in many european countries: in the netherlands 42% (the second main mode of transport of goods after road transport), in belgium 12%, in germany 14%, in france in the area of waterways 15 20%, in austria in the area of waterways 18.5%. on average, in the 15 countries of the eu, river transport accounts for 7.1% of total goods transported (1998). in poland, inland waterway transport is of extremely marginal importance and is ignored or treated with extreme disregard in almost all transport infrastructure development strategies. only 0.6% of transport in tonnes (only 7.7 million tonnes in total) and 0.5% in tonne-kilometres (data from 2002) is carried by river. this market position is 80 to 30 times smaller than in the western european countries mentioned above. its persistent omission in government documents shows the lack of knowledge of transport economics among those responsible for shaping polish transport policy.
in writing. - the report on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries is a necessary complement to the reform of the cap for 2014-2020 and is also the eu's response to the challenges posed by globalisation and the global competitiveness of the european agri-food sector. together we have managed to reach a compromise on the basis of which increased resources will be allocated to information and promotion of agri-food products. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. of particular importance for those involved in information and promotion activities, up to 70% of the cost of programmes on the internal market and 80% on third country markets will be financed by eu funds, which will make it easier for european producers and processors to promote their products in europe and the world, while reducing administrative burdens. the solutions achieved will provide excellent support for european products on the eu market, where they face increasing competition from eu trading partners with whom free trade agreements are being concluded. in turn, promotion on third country markets will help to open and deepen further markets for healthy, attractive and safe products from european agriculture. for these reasons, i fully support the negotiated compromise.
in writing. - the modernised system for the promotion of agricultural products is to be open to a new type of beneficiary; in addition to producer organisations, it will be open to non-governmental organisations in the agri-food sector under certain conditions. the system is also to be simplified, and the implementation of multinational promotion programmes is to be facilitated. the origin of agricultural products and the brand may be mentioned to a certain extent.
in writing. - the european commission, member states and eu industry will invest over €22 billion over the next seven years in innovation in sectors that generate high-quality jobs. the majority of the funds will be directed to five public-private partnerships and will cover areas such as innovative medicines, aeronautics, bio-based industries, fuel cells and hydrogen technologies, and electronics. these research partnerships will boost the competitiveness of eu industry in sectors that already provide more than 4 million jobs. they will also provide solutions to major societal challenges, such as reducing carbon emissions or developing next-generation antibiotics, that the market has not been able to address quickly enough. the package also proposed to extend the initiative to use investment in research and innovation in air traffic management to support the single european sky.
in writing. - economic growth in europe is directly linked to the level of innovation in the solutions used, many of which are created within the sme sector. their research activities should be supported by co-financing. given the rapid nature of the changes taking place in the market, it is necessary to seek to reduce the waiting time for granting and to ensure the transparency and efficiency of the administrative bodies involved. greater harmonisation of research funding at european level and reduction of bureaucratic burdens will help to avoid unnecessary double audits and the need to produce additional reports. the eurostars joint programme, according to the mid-term evaluation, is able to meet its objectives of providing effective support to small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in research activities. the programme also seems to fit well with the real needs of the sme sector concerned, as the number of eligible applications exceeded the initial budget. however, further work is needed on issues of deeper integration of national programmes to reduce contracting times and to achieve greater transparency of procedures. the eurostars programme could also benefit from greater involvement of the member states in activities related to the evaluation of its effectiveness. the objectives of the horizon 2020 framework programme also provide significant opportunities for supporting innovation in the sme sector, enabling them to build a solid foundation for effective competition in the market.
in writing. - enterprise and industry policy aims to ensure a level playing field for competing and trading firms, an attractive europe for investors and workers, and economic growth based on knowledge and innovative industries. the eu is trying to anticipate structural change, to build an innovation climate that will help meet the challenges and, where change is needed, to mitigate, as far as possible, its potential impact on the situation of employers and workers.
in writing. - with the right financial resources and political commitment before the end of this decade, together we can improve the lives of millions of people. my foundation is fully committed to supporting efforts to develop life-saving solutions that will help humanity face one of its most difficult problems. "partnership with the commission and other donors is key to the success of our project", says gates. the gates foundation and the european commission also plan to fund a joint innovation prize to be awarded at the 2014 innovation congress. the prize is intended to reward innovations that respond to current global health challenges.
in writing. - the new institution is a european securities order on a bank account. it will be issued by the court with jurisdiction over civil matters (excluding bankruptcy, social security and arbitration). to obtain it, it will be necessary to justify the validity of the claim and the risk of the property being removed in subsequent enforcement. the preservation order will be issued in a closed session, will indicate the amount of the security and, most importantly, will be enforceable throughout the eu without separate proceedings. the bank that receives such an order will be required to block the account and inform you of the effectiveness of the security. interestingly, eu legislation is therefore intended to require member states to put in place mechanisms to facilitate the acquisition of information on bank accounts. and rightly so, because without this knowledge, the enznrb (that's my acronym) would be worth as much as a sentence in the days of the commonwealth.
in writing. - there's a limit to what can be written in the regulation. and these are small numbers, because there are only 2,500 companies that do csa reports, and they're the parent companies and the subsidiaries. and then there's the huge sums that are spent, and companies often have to hire people to do that reporting. voluntary reporting is fine, but originally it was assumed that 25,000 entities were involved, and what the balance is - we all see it, so we have to think about it. you have to consider what's being suggested. the priority is to strengthen the european economy. if there is a situation where smaller companies are forced to report to the csa, then you have to object to that, the question is why are companies forced to do the bureaucracy, because we are talking about 42000 potential entities. for large companies, it's not a problem to spend 30,000 euros on such reporting, but for others, it can be an insurmountable barrier and cause great difficulty.
in writing. - current procedures for intra-corporate transfers are lengthy and costly, and are different in each member state. we therefore believe that the proposals in the draft directive will introduce transparent transfer rules and reduce the time taken for them to be implemented. however, some of the project's provisions raise concerns.
in writing. - clean sky 2 is the most ambitious european aeronautics programme. its main task is to develop new technologies that significantly reduce the negative environmental impact of aircraft and transport, leading to reduced noise and fuel consumption. it constitutes an important contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the single european sky initiative concerning environmental protection.
in writing. - the bio-economy and the decarbonisation of all member states is an important issue for europe. by using natural resources, with the support of biotechnology, chemistry, genetics and other sciences such as economics, we can ensure the energy security of the european union's citizens in the future.
in writing. - the european union and the pharmaceutical sector will support companies involved in the research of new medicines. the european commission and the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations (efpia) will spend nearly eur 224 million over the next seven years on research into new and more effective antibiotics under the 'new drugs for bad bugs' programme. who can run for the money? hospitals that may conduct clinical trials of new phase 1, 2 and 3 drugs, medical universities, clinical trial providers commissioned by pharmaceutical companies and small and medium-sized enterprises that will conduct research in the framework of the consortia that will be established.
in writing. - fuel cells are one of the many alternative electricity technologies that have been developing rapidly in recent years. the fuel cell has one of the highest power-output ratios per unit volume of fuel. all this with zero emissions of toxic exhaust components and very high fuel efficiency. and given that modern fuel cells are just entering their developmental stages, the only real question today is not whether, but when, they will replace traditional energy production methods. a power plant that uses this cell can be built literally anywhere, and it will run just as well on hydrogen, biofuels, natural gas, alcohol, coal, and many other fuels. fuel cell systems are widely recognised as the most promising alternative propulsion concept of the future, mainly because of their environmental character. fuel cell systems are also being considered as future energy sources competitive with oil and coal.
in writing. - i'm very pleased with the progress made over the past year. the unique nature of the common transparency register is that it includes many representatives of the relevant interest groups and ensures equal opportunities for all types of entities. i am particularly pleased with the ongoing dialogue with all stakeholders and the engagement of the general public, which is a valuable support to our efforts to further expand the reach of the register and improve its functioning in the future.
in writing. - implementation of the actions proposed by the task force and adopted by the european council will contribute to enhancing fiscal discipline, broadening economic surveillance and deepening coordination, as well as allowing the establishment of a broad crisis management framework and stronger institutions. the discussions also focused on the preparation of a common eu position for the g20 summit in seoul, focusing on the implementation of measures to consolidate fiscal consolidation, reform financial regulation, social cohesion, job creation and the need for further structural reforms.
madam president! the free movement of workers is a consequence of the free movement of persons, which is one of the main foundations of the european union. the promotion and facilitation of the cross-border mobility of workers in the context of their retention of their entitlement to supplementary pensions should be ensured, at least to a minimum extent, by uniform arrangements throughout the community. workers who fear losing their entitlement to supplementary pensions in their new country of residence may refuse to change their place of work. these are, of course, rights which do not fall within the scope of the social protection guaranteed by the social security systems of the member states but which result, for example, from additional agreements concluded in the framework of an employment contract between an employer and an employee. the absence of such regulations may have the effect of restricting the free movement of workers. it is therefore essential to lay down minimum requirements governing the rules for the transfer of supplementary pension rights in order to facilitate cross-border mobility of workers. when we introduce mechanisms to facilitate the change of residence, whether for purely personal reasons or because of the greater possibility of finding work in the country where a person intends to settle, we must aim to ensure that the rights acquired previously are guaranteed in a certain and inviolable way. there are no standards which would give them the chance of being recognised on similar terms in different member states. it is therefore necessary to seek solutions that can be applied throughout the european union, so that the lack of such solutions does not constitute a reason for limiting the cross-border mobility of workers. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs rie oomen-ruijten, who has done an incredible job, and i hope that the solutions contained in this report will also improve the situation on the labour market.
for many years, the commission has been warning that few citizens are exercising their right to seek employment in the single market. recent figures show that only 3% of our citizens live in a country other than their country of origin, which is proof that the free movement of workers is not working as we would like it to. the reasons for this are many, one of them being undoubtedly the difficulties in maintaining entitlements to supplementary pensions. they are increasingly popular and, given the difficulties with pension systems in most member states, their importance will certainly increase. this act should therefore be supported. the compromise reached between parliament and the council is a step in the right direction: on the one hand, it allows the existing problems, especially those resulting from relatively short periods of work in another member state, to be solved, linked to the extremely popular wave of migration, and on the other hand it seeks to take account of the existing differences between member states in the functioning of supplementary pension and pension schemes. however, it is important that the measures introduced are properly disseminated to migrant workers. the practice shows that many of the solutions adopted at european level do not work simply because citizens are unaware of their existence. it will therefore be for the commission to ensure that the directive's requirements for informing workers are implemented at all levels, from the member states to the workers. i would like to thank very warmly the rapporteur, riia oomen-ruijten, for her commitment to the subject of pensions in the european parliament. thanks to her determination over many years, we have been able to complete a lot of work on this dossier and most importantly to introduce many valuable solutions. thank you so much for your job!
madam president, as a member of the european parliament, i have directed many of my efforts towards improving the situation of europe’s senior citizens. many of them live on a fixed income, often in the form of a state pension. however, the question of pension rights is not limited to the elderly. virtually all europeans will one day retire and start collecting social benefits. pension rights are an especially important topic in these times of precarious employment, economic difficulties and demographic changes. many europeans – including myself in the past – travel across the continent in search of gainful employment. increasing work mobility has always been among the tenets of european integration; yet, now that we are closer than ever to realising this goal, disparaging voices arise across europe. we should not heed these detractors, but we should go on working towards creating a unified, pan-european labour market. simplifying and enhancing the process of the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights is an important step towards this goal. i fully support this proposal and hope that it will help all europeans working abroad. i firmly believe that every person, no matter where he or she comes from, has the right to an adequate pension and a restful retirement.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? the freedom to provide services is one of the fundamental elements of european integration. it allows european companies to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market and thus create jobs and growth, which are particularly needed in the wake of the crisis. under this freedom in the european union, businesses from both western and central and eastern europe post around one million workers a year to provide services in another member state, with 70% of the posted workers coming from western europe. one of the challenges of posting is to ensure that the rights of posted workers are adequately protected, while allowing companies to benefit from the opportunities to provide services in the internal market. the implementing directive we are discussing today aims to improve the implementation of the 1996 directive which contains the basic conditions necessary to be met in the event of a posting. the economic situation and the upcoming european parliament elections made the work on the implementing directive difficult but intensive. i have often been confronted in the european parliament with ideas aimed at eliminating this form of economic activity, which unfortunately was often dictated by purely protectionist considerations. the abolition of posting would have a very negative impact not only on the economy but also on the labour market, on workers who would lose jobs that are so much needed today. i am very pleased that we have managed to reach an agreement with the council which, in the view of the overwhelming majority of member states (25 countries voted in favour of the agreement) and the large majority of the committee on employment and social affairs (30 members voted in favour, 11 against, 3 abstentions), will help to improve the protection of workers' rights and ensure that businesses can benefit from the internal market. contrary to the rhetoric of some quarters, the implementing directive contains a number of provisions that will improve the protection of workers' rights. by introducing a clear list of elements characterising national posting, labour inspectorates will be able to detect cases of abuse and breaches of the law, such as 'postbox companies' or false employment, more quickly and efficiently. states will be obliged to provide adequate protection for workers in the event that the posting is found to have been unlawful. they will be required to set up a single national website with all the information on employment conditions in the host country, giving workers the opportunity to obtain information on what rights they have. workers will also have access to mechanisms to enable them to exercise their rights efficiently and quickly, such as payment of arrears, including remuneration. states will continue to be able to decide on the choice of control measures to be applied to companies that post workers, which will allow for the efficient and effective control and elimination of dishonest employers. in the construction sector, workers will be subject to a solidarity mechanism which will ensure that they are paid, inter alia, wages. the member states will be able to apply a similar mechanism to other sectors or more restrictive arrangements depending on the needs of the local market. the cross-border enforcement of penalties and fines imposed on dishonest companies has also been improved. the main emphasis on the part of the entrepreneurs is on ensuring legal clarity, the lack of which is the main problem preventing companies from complying adequately with the provisions of the 1996 directive. the introduction of a list of elements characterising posting will help companies to understand what additional responsibilities labour inspections have to fulfil. the obligation for member states to inform the european commission of their control measures and to publish information on control instruments on a single national website will give businesses legal clarity and certainty that they can meet the requirements of labour inspections. the solutions contained in the directive will significantly improve the situation of workers, streamlining the posting process which provides jobs to around one million workers a year, representing over 18% of those working in a member state other than their country of origin.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the ambassador! you call that directive criminogenic. don't you think that your fear, your fear of the influx of people who want to work, also in your country, is a manifestation of nationalism and protectionism, and socialism. the richest country in the world, the most powerful country in the world, like the united states, is made up largely of immigrants. shouldn't you be concerned with making the french economy more open and more liberal, rather than frightening your citizens with the influx of people from poland and other countries who want to work, who don't want to take your jobs, who just want to work?
mr. chairman, please! the amendments to the posting of workers directive are very important. i would like to focus on facilitating the posting of workers as an instrument for effectively combating unemployment. unemployment reports highlight that we have unfilled jobs in europe, but they are very unevenly distributed geographically, i.e. in some regions of the european union there is still a shortage of workers, while in others unemployment is very high and it is difficult to create new jobs. the facilitation of the posting of workers is also intended to serve a better distribution of work. it is therefore important that the amendments to that directive introduce measures that, on the one hand, protect posted workers and, on the other hand, are proportionate and non-discriminatory, so as not to create administrative burdens and limit the job creation potential of enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. information on the requirements and rules relating to the posting of workers should be made available by each member state through its official national website. it should also be stressed that the control authorities of the member states have an important role to play, since they must ensure that minimum conditions of employment are respected in order to control potentially illegal employment. we need these changes which are in the directive on the posting of workers, and that is why i am calling for the rejection of the amendments and the adoption of the agreement which was also adopted by the employment committee on 18 march, and, referring to what mrs van der kammen said, perhaps these east european bricklayers are simply better than the dutch bricklayers.
poland is the country with the highest number of workers who are being posted, and that is one of the reasons why i am in favour of this directive and this report, which i ask to be adopted without amendments, because the adoption of these amendments will prolong the whole procedure, and the adoption of this document is necessary immediately. but i say this not only because i am polish, but also because i represent the european right. tomorrow will be the test of who is really a free market, a right-wing, not a nationalist or a xenophobe in this house, because only a xenophobe, only someone with xenophobic and nationalist views, is able to say that this free market document is against the foundations of europe. this document is exactly what it should be, which is a free market, allowing for the flow of people, the flow of services. that's why the poles voted to join the european union in 2003 to get these documents. tomorrow we will have a test of who has the right to say that they understand what the european union is and who should never be here.
mr. chairman, please! fighting the crisis does not have to mean accepting lower employment standards, just as mobility does not have to mean that those who move earn less and work in worse conditions. therefore, this directive is clearly moving in the right direction, but, as has been stressed, it is not sufficient. i want to thank all those who are criticizing the left today and us here in the s&d group, because it is thanks to the fact that the trade unions and our group have demanded these solutions related to control, to the minimum wage, to the other instruments that seal this market, that this directive today is better than the one that was originally designed by the state or ordered and expected by the state. we have tabled amendments which go even further, and as i listen to you today, you would probably be more pleased if they were adopted, because the point is to control workers even more closely and to report them earlier, at a time when they have not yet arrived in the country that is taking them to work.
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. the basis for posting is the provision of minimum conditions of employment in the country where they are most favourable to the worker. that was not the subject of that directive. in this directive we have worked on instruments to provide legal protection for these posted workers. you have spoken very often about social dumping. i have to tell you that equating social dumping with delegation is, in my opinion, only for self-interest, populist gain. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. ladies and gentlemen! amendments have been made to the negotiated compromise, amendments which do nothing to increase worker protection, but only introduce more bureaucracy in government administration and in businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses. as we often stress, we are fighting against excessive bureaucracy. in this case, it'll add to the red tape. and unfortunately, it will prevent us from accepting the compromise we've worked out. i would like to stress in this connection that the adoption of any amendment in tomorrow's vote will not allow the work to be closed at first reading and will have cut more than two years of work. i can assure you that the agreement we have reached offers a real opportunity to improve the situation of posted workers and businesses, which is particularly needed today, when we are still facing high unemployment in europe and when the whole world is focusing on the development of mobility. delegation is the safest form of delegation. i call on all colleagues to make a sensible decision and vote on the implementing directive and vote against any amendments. this will improve the protection of the rights of posted workers and provide legal clarity for european entrepreneurs. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this directive. it is your work - and that of my colleagues in the european parliament, the european commission and the council - that has produced such a good result.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission's initiative to formalise cooperation between public employment services by creating a network of these services is entirely justified and worthy of support. there are many advantages to this approach, one of which is certainly the creation of a comfortable platform for the exchange of experience and good practice. this is important because member states have very different public employment services models, which also have different tools and operate in different legal environments. this diversity is certainly one of the reasons why the community labour market cannot be fully established. nevertheless, it can be a great asset for the union, allowing the various models and forms of employment services activity to be tested by trial and error. this will enable us to benefit from the experience of others, to learn from their mistakes and to replicate proven solutions. this is currently hampered mainly by the voluntary nature of participation in existing cooperation platforms. there is therefore no area of exchange of experience involving all those responsible for employment policy. the commission and council decision will help to overcome this shortcoming and to strengthen the cooperation between these services, and will also make it possible to coordinate national employment policies better in the context of the european semester. all this can translate in the long term into greater cohesion in the area of labour markets between member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and for the fact that we have managed to complete a very important segment of the cultural heritage protection area in europe during this parliamentary term. the commission, including the culture committee, has worked very hard on this. my colleague marek migalski is also here, he was also involved in this case with the committee on culture. it is important that cultural heritage is protected in the area of free movement of goods in the european union. and this is also the case with the directive that we are amending. if something is not working, we try to diagnose it well and improve the system so that it is as effective as possible, so that it can best protect europe's cultural heritage. it also happens that on the one hand we have had a dismal statistic, only a few dozen cases of claims based on the 1993 directive in relation to a very large number of theft offences. i would remind you that between 2007 and 2010, more than 8 000 crimes related to the theft of cultural property were recorded, mainly in four countries: france, germany, poland and italy. the scale is enormous, and it's mostly done by professional groups, who often steal and then trade cultural heritage for a living. it is important, ladies and gentlemen, to be effective, and therefore the issues that change raises are extremely important. first of all, the scope of the extension of the directive based on cultural goods classified as national cultural goods. this definition will be an expansionary definition. this will be a great facilitation in terms of the range of goods that can be covered by this directive. first of all, the administrative authorities and the investigating authorities will be able to exchange information even better in connection with the single market; we will be dealing with a new it tool that will make it easier to exchange information. we will remove what was an obstacle in the directive, namely the issues of the extension of the deadline for claiming a refund, or the extension of the deadline for the issues of proving due diligence, for the issue of compensation for acquirers of cultural goods. there is a question of compensation for the owners of cultural objects that will be subject to loss. these issues of proving due diligence in purchasing are extremely important. so we have an important instrument that we have to put in place effectively. this is in the interest of all member states based on the scale and magnitude of the procedure that exists in the european union. and i want to say that we've been dealing with some very important developments in the last few years. in poland, i just want to say at the end, there was a theft of the "arbeit macht frei" sign in auschwitz, and i hope that we will be able to track such cases more easily, to provide protection more easily in the future. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on this important report.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i agree with everything you said. do you not think that the weakness of this report is precisely what you are talking about - the lack of this reference to the plundering of goods before 1993, especially during the second world war, because entire nations were then plundered of their cultural goods? and do you not think that the european parliament should work on another report, covering not only the period after 1993 but also the period before 1993, with particular reference to the second world war?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'll start by saying i agree with you completely. what is missing from this good report, which my political group will support, is that it draws attention to the fact that what we were dealing with 60, 70 years ago is even more shocking than the looting we have been talking about lately. and it was also in the words of the council representative that we remember that the seizure of property did not start in 1993. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. that is why this report is so important for countries like poland, because it allows us to recover what is part of our national heritage. the robberies are more or less spectacular, as peter boris said. the most shocking thing for us was the theft of the sign from the german nazi death camp auschwitz-birkenau, the famous, world-famous slogan "arbeit macht frei". but there are many thousands of different kinds of theft, and the report is intended to facilitate -- i understand the essence of the report -- the return of these goods, their recovery, because this act of theft is not only an attack on property issues, but it is an attack on cultural issues. a nation that is stripped of its national goods begins to have problems, it does not cease to be a nation, but it begins to have problems in cultivating what made it. from this point of view, this report is most appropriate and necessary.
madam president! thank you, commissioner! ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good initiative, but we must realize that for this initiative to work, it must be preceded by a lot of education. and it's an education that says that plastic is a blessing, but it's also a curse. if we use it in excess, if we use plastic in every product where it's not even needed, we're polluting our environment. biodegradable packaging is good, but it's not going to replace reusable packaging. and the first thing we have to look at is reusable bags, not necessarily plastic bags. where plastic is needed, these bags will not be replaced by other bags, but it must be admitted that single-use bags in particular are waste, which unfortunately is not recycled as much as other plastics. so we have to think about how to reduce these plastics. i say that we must be very careful about this, because we cannot introduce regulations overnight. but we should be working towards that by setting ourselves certain values to achieve that, and giving ourselves some time to avoid a situation where one country imports and another does not. we have examples of the price of a handbag that does have an educational purpose. because someone who has to pay for a purse, even the thinnest one, is wondering whether to spend that money or whether it's better to use a reusable purse. and i think we should also pay attention to the fact that plastic bags are primarily health-related, because almost no one pays attention to that, and we have bags that cause all kinds of diseases: cancer, diseases related to hormonal changes. and we should also make sure that these bags are not only biodegradable, but also healthy.
in writing. plastic bags are everywhere. we use them all the time, and we don't think about the environmental consequences. and the consequences are far-reaching. statistically, each of us uses 200 bags a year. most are used only once and then thrown away. the result is mountains of garbage that decompose over hundreds of years and that threaten our fauna and flora. not only do used plastic bags beautify the landscape, but they are also harmful to animals. fish, marine mammals and birds are exposed to the harmful effects of substances contained in plastic bags. scientists have found evidence that these animals have plastic bag components in their bodies. the objectives set out in the report, while ambitious, are essential to bring about changes in consumer awareness and behaviour. for the sake of future generations, we must reduce the use of plastic bags. we have a responsibility to care for our environment, and the change in thinking about the impact of plastic bags that this bill is about will have long-term benefits.
in writing. – the issue of protecting our borders in the eu also extends to our sea borders and can be difficult to protect and regulate. the southern eu members states were suddenly confronted with a large number of individuals, coming from the mediterranean region in an attempt to flee conflict, persecution, or just to improve their economic opportunities, using the maritime route to cross international borders clandestinely. the number of persons crossing europeʼs southern sea borders using unseaworthy boats amounted to around 10[nbsp ]000 people in 2010, increased to over 70[nbsp ]000 people in 2011, to drop again to around 20[nbsp ]000 people in 2012, where most of these crossings were organised by smugglers. we must stand together with our southern member states and see to it that they receive the resources necessary to successfully protect the sea coast. while we do have the legal right to protect our coastline, security and defense issues still remain. these impending problems cannot be ignored and a broadening of the schengen area will only continue to make protection that more difficult.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in poland, your statement that nato troops should not be deployed on the eastern border of the alliance, that this is inconsistent with some agreements with russia, has had a big impact. don't you think that in the current situation, that would be one way to deter russia from further aggression? what is your opinion on this today?
mr. chairman, please! to quote chairman daul - "this is an accident that should not have happened" - this is about sarajevo 100 years ago. that's how someone might describe this moment someday. we are at the point where the war is starting in eastern ukraine and that is why we must react now. our reactions so far are worth it that today we received another letter from the russian ambassador telling us to keep our resolutions. our reaction has been delayed, we are in danger of the presidential elections in ukraine being torpedoed. our reactions, despite the efforts of people like stefan fülefülefüle, are like those of a fat, smug bison. europe is such a fat bison today that it's hard to get it to act. and that's why i decided to quote a very sharp quote from one of the best polish contemporary writers, so please, ladies and gentlemen, we as politicians at the last session, here in strasbourg, are not to write another general resolution and make compromises, but we are to bite this bison in the ass to get it to work, because when we come back here after the holidays, elected or not, it may be too late.
mr. chairman, please! this is a watershed moment, a watershed moment for the eastern partnership, which russia is trying to block, and a watershed moment for european security. the european union needs to act decisively. russia is invading ukraine in stages, using a slam dunk. we have to stop her! we need immediate eu level 3 sanctions. sanctions like we've been using against iran, economic and financial blockade. ukraine has the right to self-defence based on article 51 of the united nations charter, including the use of military force. the union should immediately send a european monitoring mission to eastern ukraine and the russian border, as it did to georgia. it's not just ukraine that's at stake, it's european security.
mr. chairman, please! the drama is that we are in the last session in strasbourg, we have elections in a month and we do not know what the new parliament will be like. russia is pursuing a policy to bring ukraine to a state of bankruptcy. he wants to make chaos a reality, he wants violence to be in the streets, he wants terrorist acts to be a reality in the cities and towns of this country. the worst thing is that most ukrainians want a unilateral state, they want one ukraine, and this state cannot defend itself, it has no army, it has no what normally always stands behind the law - a system that can enforce that law. there are those among the winners who would like to replace the old system of corruption with a new system of their own. the state is acting badly and this is the main concern, because the future of what is happening in ukraine is not happening in brussels, it is not happening only in moscow, it is happening primarily in kiev and in this matter they deserve our support. as i said, the future of ukraine is at stake, but so is the future of the european union. the old saying goes, what doesn't kill you makes you stronger, either we come out of this confrontation with the russian federation stronger, more integrated and bring more politics into our daily lives, or we will be divided, as putin would like, who writes 18 letters on energy policy, ignoring the fact that there is one address in brussels where the same letter could be sent. it's good he's getting an answer from one place.
mr. chairman, please! the annexation of crimea constitutes a violation of international law and numerous treaties to which russia is a party. after the occupation of abkhazia and south ossetia, this is another example of the kremlin's policy of expropriation, clearly aimed at restoring the soviet empire. the situation on the ukrainian-russian border remains tense, and incidents in donetsk, lugansk and kharkiv are causing concern. president putin is relentlessly interfering in ukraine's internal affairs. we cannot accept a policy that is carried out under the barrel of a rifle. moscow's actions require a strong opposition and a coherent and coordinated approach by member states and the international community. stopping the increasingly likely russian invasion of ukraine is also a key action for the security of the union's states. i am counting on european diplomacy to be active. the north atlantic alliance is also a great deal of cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking about another 13 resolutions on ukraine in the european parliament, but this resolution on ukraine is also a testimony about us, the members of the european union. we just said, "no more war", commemorating the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the first world war, and in ukraine we see in the news that tanks are driving in the streets of kramatorsk with the russian flag. it is an open conflict, a kind of creeping war, leading to the de facto dismemberment of ukraine. commissioner füle said that the notion of a free europe was being called into question and that was unacceptable, and we all agree with him. because ukraine has the right to defend its homeland, but it also has the right to defend its independence. we, on the other hand, are building a united front of all the members of the european union. our decisions in solidarity, for example, to not export weapons, even if they are ordered, to not try to circumvent the embargo imposed by russia on exports to russia, even if it is food products, are decisions that show whether we are effective or not. it's not just the restrictions that are imposed, it's the decisions that also determine what our future will be. let us realize that this is supposed to lead, among other things, to the cessation of the preparation of the presidential elections in ukraine. but the crisis in ukraine is a test for the union, whether we come out stronger or divided, weaker. it's good that natural gas is flowing from germany, through poland to ukraine, but this is one of the first steps to show that we are able to make such decisions.
blue-card question. – francisco millán mon and other speakers: in the case of a scenario whereby mr putin aggravates the situation in ukrainian territory and we have people escaping from the country, is the european union prepared to deal with it? because we in my region are the direct neighbours. i would like to know. nobody speaks about it, neither the commission nor the meps. we do not want a worse scenario, but if it were to happen, are we prepared for it or not?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. when russia invaded georgia in 2008 and de facto annexed two georgian regions, the european union reacted by stopping the war. but very quickly we forgot about that and we went to the agenda of what is happening in these regions occupied by russia. russia is using all available methods to influence the situation in europe: it blocks the export of georgian water or wine, wine from moldova, it now blocks the export of polish or lithuanian meat, apples, etc. if you go to the russian foreign ministry's website, you can very easily find a document that has been there for many years and still exists there, that russia guarantees itself the right to use energy resources as a tool in international politics. we should stop being naive, these are russia's targets. the goal is to rebuild an empire and maintain influence in this part of europe. but today russia is going further: it is annexing crimea, it is influencing the situation in eastern ukraine, and we should respond clearly and firmly: with such a russia, as the european union, as the democratic world, we will not cooperate. in every possible field.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we're focused on ukraine today, and rightly so. there are increasingly disturbing reports, including the appearance of tanks with russian flags in some cities in the east. i hope they're not regular russian troops, but even if they are so-called rebels, the situation is extremely dangerous and requires an immediate international response. well, then, it's a good thing we have this debate. it's also good that we're passing the resolution. and it is very good that in the text of the resolution we will refer not only to ukraine but also to the other eastern partnership countries, because president putin treats this whole area as his exclusive sphere of influence. russian troops in transnistria, the referendum in gagauzia, the systematic shifting of borders in abkhazia and south ossetia at the expense of georgia, and economic blackmail against armenia - these are examples of the kremlin's carefully planned and consistently implemented strategy. as vice-president of the european parliament responsible for relations with the parliaments of the eastern partnership countries, i want to state that these nations want to live normally, to decide for themselves about their political alliances and economic relations, and they are counting very much on our support and on our real help. we can't let them down! let this debate be a message for the next parliament. we can't let them down and leave them alone!
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about the far-flung ukraine from the comfort of strasbourg. unfortunately, this comfortable perspective distorts the real picture of the situation. the union considers the aggression against ukraine to be an important issue, but not a direct threat to europe. unfortunately, this comfortable position is wrong. russia's ultimate goal is not eastern ukraine or even all of ukraine, it is the disintegration of the european union. president putin's letter to individual leaders of the union on gas supplies shows how he uses aggression against ukraine to divide the union. in the east, not only ukraine is under attack, but the rest of europe is under attack. the sooner we realize this and properly confront russia, the less damage we'll suffer. long live the solidarity of the freedom fighters! long live the solidarity of the european union with ukraine!
mr. chairman, please! putin's violation of international law, the violation of ukraine's integrity, the violation of ukrainian borders, deserves a strong reaction from the international community. this is an obvious offense that should be met with a very strong response. unfortunately, there's no such reaction, except in words and appearances. the reason for this situation is the very high dependence of the economies of the individual countries of the european union on russian gas, depending on the energy resources imported from russia. it's a process that unfortunately is progressing. instead of imposing real sanctions on putin for his act of aggression, the eu actually gave him another gift at the last summit in brussels, because by tightening the rules of climate policy, it inevitably makes european economies even more dependent on russian gas. it's obvious to everyone. billions of euros will flow to russia and will be used by putin to pursue an imperial policy of aggression against other neighboring countries. what putin is doing today is a harbinger of things to come. let's rethink our energy policy! today, gas is a weapon. these weapons are being used strategically and consistently by putin's russia. we must see this, we must learn from it, we must stop making the european union's economy dependent on russian gas. that's why the western world won the cold war against the soviet empire, because then the west, then the eec, was not dependent on russian gas. we could not only afford to make bold gestures and words, but also to act. today there is a fear that putin will close the gas drip for the european economy and that this will end in disaster for the economy of germany and other countries of the european union. we must have the courage to look strategically at the situation as it is in ukraine at the moment. let's decide on some action!
colleagues, seeing as this is the last voting session i will chair, please allow me to do it in my mother tongue. (applause) written statements (rule 149)
we'll start with the communiqué. after consulting the political groups, i propose that the agenda for this evening be changed under rule 140. tonight's vote is scheduled to run from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. the explanation of the vote is scheduled for tomorrow. however, since the afternoon vote will actually only last about 15 minutes, i propose that the explanations of vote be held immediately after the vote, between the end of the vote and 7 p.m., when we will move on to the debates scheduled for that hour. are there any comments on this?
dear lord, this is our job and we must do it. (parliament adopted the proposal)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
the rapporteur. - i wanted to thank all the members who voted for this directive for your responsibility. from today, we can develop the safest mobility, which is the posting of workers, while improving the safety and working conditions of posted workers. thank you so much for this!
mr. goebbels, i have to go. i understand and respect your argument, but the only person who has the authority to make such a request is the rapporteur, mrs auken.
there is therefore no request for referral back to committee.
we have a motion to refer the report back to committee for reconsideration. (request for referral back to committee accepted)
the procedure is like that. after such a motion i must ask if anyone wants to take the floor in favour of the proposal.
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. as rapporteur of this report, i wanted to say no. is that possible at this point? thank you very much. thank you. this report is one of the most important and certainly the most difficult reports that has been produced in the international trade commission. it concerns a very important issue, new to the european union's competence, namely investment policy. the work on it was difficult because the european parliament and the council started the negotiations from very different points of view. we have managed to reach a compromise, the commission has been involved in this matter to the end and i am convinced that the ttip consultations are independent of this document. so i move that this motion be denied.
rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank very much all colleagues, all shadow rapporteurs and the representatives of the council and the commission for very successful work. thank you very much for this result.
mr cohn-bendit, that is the division of duties and responsibilities and the bureau of the european parliament is responsible for taking personnel decisions. we also discussed the issue at the request of ms durant and we finally decided, by a large majority, that the bureau should take those decisions during this parliamentary term. i think we can now move to the final vote because the decision two weeks ago was to postpone just the final vote and it is up to you, dear colleagues, members of the european parliament, whether to adopt or to reject the whole dossier.
let me tell you something. i am not running for the next parliamentary term but i would like to tell you that this has been the best time of my life, 10 years here in the european parliament, and that was a lovely time because of you. thank you very much. (applause) to be precise, i mean in my public life because i have spent 14 years with my wife and that has been the best time in my life. that concludes the vote. przechodzimy do sesji wyjaśnień dotyczących głosowań. chciałbym państwa poinformować, że otrzymałem wiele wniosków w sprawie wyjaśnień dotyczących głosowań. możemy zatem kontynuować to posiedzenie maksymalnie do godz. 14.00. pozostałe wyjaśnienia dotyczące głosowania zostaną przedstawione dziś wieczorem, po głosowaniu o godz. 18.00.
in writing. - the control system applied to products from the eu makes them among the safest in the world. however, the situation on the global market is dynamic and therefore continuous monitoring of the state of the agri-food chains is necessary to prevent and eliminate risks. in order to ensure the efficient functioning of the control system, it is necessary to prevent overlapping situations and to ensure the consistency of the rules applied by simplifying the general legal framework. risk analysis should be an essential element of the approach to the controls carried out and the overall approach to the harmonisation of procedures should take into account the objectives expressed in the communication with regard to smart regulation in the european union. the criteria for exempting micro-enterprises from compulsory or partial payment should be carefully selected. the introduction of such a provision may result in a reduction in the number of checks or an increase in the costs associated with them for undertakings with an annual turnover or balance sheet exceeding eur 2 million. consideration should also be given to the inclusion of the cost of training of staff performing checks in fees or charges, which should probably remain within the remit of the competent authority in order to guarantee the quality of the services provided. official controls play a very important role in ensuring the health protection and confidence of consumers who are consumers of products in the agri-food chain. many of the legal acts adopted so far have helped to establish the sector's position in the world, and subsequent decisions should continue to strengthen it.
in writing. - the draft on controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the application of food and feed law and rules on animal health and welfare, plant health, plant reproductive material and plant protection products has raised many objections among food processors and traders. it provides for a mandatory fee for all official controls. at present, companies in poland have to bear the costs of controls initiated by the veterinary inspectorate, which uses the assistance of veterinarians employed outside its bodies. under the new rules, companies will receive an invoice for each inspection carried out by an official inspector.
in writing. - promote better animal welfare standards and fair competition, which means that the same standards should be required of eu producers as of those who export animal products to the european market. another important issue is support for the vaccination programme as a means of reducing the risk of disease. another problem is the compensation system, which should take into account indirect losses related to the market crisis. control at the external borders should be an effective means of preventing the illegal introduction into the union of animals of unknown origin. the last issue raised by the rapporteur is the duration of the strategy and its financing. these ambitious objectives are not sufficiently supported by financial means and should be financed from the union budget.
in writing. - the development of international trade is very important for the union, but it can also be responsible for the creation of outbreaks of dangerous pests. the increase in imports has contributed to this risk and has made the existing council directive 2000/29/ec no longer a sufficient instrument. the definition of appropriate priorities is particularly important here, as it will determine future behavioural strategies, which in turn will be reflected in the process of their implementation. the most desirable situation is that the new rules can enter into force simultaneously throughout the eu, but for practical reasons it is necessary to look realistically at the possibilities of national supervisory authorities and professional operators. the loss of control over the spread of plant pests could pose a serious problem for the competitiveness of agriculture, horticulture and forestry in the future. biodiversity may also be threatened. for this reason, the transport of high-risk goods from third countries should be subject to appropriate restrictions. in order to ensure that measures against the harmful economic, environmental and social impact of plant pests can have the desired effect, it also appears necessary to carry out campaigns to inform citizens about the risks associated with the import of plants from third countries. we should also be aware of online trade, where plants on offer often do not meet eu phytosanitary import requirements. therefore, online sellers should also be subject to registration.
in writing. - promote better animal welfare standards and fair competition, which means that the same standards should be required of eu producers as of those who export animal products to the european market. another important issue is support for the vaccination programme as a means of reducing the risk of disease. another problem is the compensation system, which should take into account indirect losses related to the market crisis. control at the external borders should be an effective means of preventing the illegal introduction into the union of animals of unknown origin. the final issue raised by the rapporteur is the duration of the strategy and its financing. these ambitious objectives are not sufficiently supported by financial means and should be financed from the union budget.
in writing. - i am pleased that we have been able to vote on a report which will strengthen the rules on the safety of non-food products sold on the internal market of the european union. this report is important from the point of view of protecting eu consumers, as the supply chain of goods will be increasingly transparent from now on. the 'made in' labels also aim to facilitate monitoring. the system has been voluntary until now, but will now be mandatory, although it will not cover certain non-food commodity groups such as medicines. i hope that the next parliament will be able to negotiate effectively with the member states on these new rules.
in writing. - the single market brings together consumers who are ready to buy products and the businesses that supply them. for this market to function well, creating favourable conditions for both parties, consumers need to have confidence in the products they buy and businesses need to operate on a level playing field. however, consumer confidence is limited, as many products are considered unsafe. the number of product warnings reported in rapex is increasing, not only because of the improved market surveillance but also because of the real increase in the number of dangerous products available on the market. this situation, and its worsening, is very damaging to the single market, as it significantly inhibits its development. consumers must regain confidence in products on the market, which must be subject to an effective and rigorously enforced safety control system. the responsibility for the product lies with the manufacturer, so it is worthwhile to ensure that safety requirements are taken into account at the design stage. it is also important that it can be identified in order to increase transparency in the supply chain. consumers also buy many products, which often originate from third countries and are therefore not subject to eu rules, online. the growing online sales require extensive information and education to protect citizens and to create a safe and responsible e-commerce environment.
in writing. - the european commission has today proposed new rules to improve the safety of consumer products in circulation on the single market and to strengthen market surveillance for non-food products, including those imported from third countries. these provisions will contribute both to a higher level of consumer protection and to a level playing field for businesses. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation. once adopted by the european parliament and the council, the new rules will be enforced by the national market surveillance authorities in the member states, which will benefit from enhanced cooperation and improved control tools.
in writing. - directive 87/357/eec on food-like products and directive 2001/95/ec on general product safety will be replaced by a regulation on the safety of consumer products. the market surveillance rules, which are currently scattered across several legal acts, will be combined in a single legal instrument (regulation) applicable to all non-food products. the two legislative proposals are intended to complement each other in a multiannual market surveillance plan, which sets out 20 specific actions to be taken between now and 2015 to strengthen market surveillance under the current regulatory framework and until the new rules come into force.
in writing. - the emir regulation, together with the delegated regulations and implementing acts, is directly applicable in all member states without the need to implement it into national law. it imposes a number of obligations on financial and non-financial (in the meaning of emir) entities that include derivative transactions, in particular:
in writing. - the following issues need to be clarified: who and under what conditions need not be covered by the obligation to apply the directive to what extent (under what conditions) companies not dealing in financial products and futures are to be excluded. we focus on companies that don't buy raw materials for speculation, but for exploitation and processing. it's about the stability of supply and the price of goods. such companies may be exempted from the obligation to apply the mifit directive.
in writing. - currently, in the member states of the european union, data on foreign trade are derived from two statistical systems that operate in parallel: 1. the extrastat system, which covers the volume of trade carried out by the eu member states with so-called third countries, i.e. non-eu member states; 2. the intrastat system, i.e. the statistical system covering trade between eu member states, based on data from the intrastat declarations. intrastat is a system for collecting data on trade between member states directly from suppliers and recipients of goods.
in writing. - central securities depositories and securities settlement systems are of interest to the european system of central banks (escb) and thus to the national bank of poland (nbp) as their smooth operation has a significant impact on: 1.the stability of the financial system 2.monetary policy operations 3.the payment system
in writing. - the final version of the new european maritime and fisheries fund was adopted on 28 january 2014. the increased funding for scientific research and monitoring and control of fisheries is seen by environmental organisations as the greatest achievement of the eu's common fisheries policy fund. the provisions allowing the replacement of engines on fishing vessels are a cause for concern. while fisheries monitoring in the baltic is relatively smooth, controls in other european seas should be improved. according to ecologists, the main challenge in the baltic will be to study the state of the cod population, the main herring fish caught by polish fishermen.
in writing. - the safety of pressure equipment is an important element of the european union's policy. by introducing specific directives, the european parliament has forced manufacturers to apply certain standards and procedures, both to protect people and, among other things, to ensure free movement within the eu market. the directives introduced concern the design and manufacture of pressure vessels, pipelines, etc. with a maximum allowable pressure exceeding 0,5 bar, and pressure transport equipment. at the same time, the harmonised standards with the directives specify the specific requirements for the welding technology to be used and the authorisation of the welding personnel.
in writing. - the european union continues to develop judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters, based on the mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in crossborder cases. the union's main objectives in this area of judicial cooperation include legal certainty and easy and effective access to the judiciary, including the simple determination of the court having jurisdiction. the legal basis for this is the council regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (brussels i regulation). the report adopted today on the recast of the brussels i regulation, which is due to enter into force on 10 january 2015, forms the basis for the agreement on a unified patent court and aims to establish the international jurisdiction of that body in cross-border cases and to regulate its legal status. i agree with the rapporteur that in the specific legal framework for the common court, attention should be paid to the rules which apply to third countries not covered by the provisions of brussels i. in this context, the amendments which will concern both the benelux court of justice and the unified patent court must ensure that both these bodies are treated on an equal footing with the courts of the member states with regard to the brussels i regulation. in addition, new rules on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments should be laid down.
in writing. - the european maritime safety agency provides the eu and its member states with technical assistance and support in developing and implementing legislation on maritime safety, pollution from ships and protection at sea. its remit also includes oil spill prevention and response, vessel monitoring and the operation of the long range identification and tracking (lrit) system.
in writing. - small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and micro-enterprises are the backbone of the european economy. in the last decade, smes have created almost 85% of new jobs, which shows where we should look for ways to improve the labour market. these companies continue to face many barriers and constraints, the most important of which is access to loans and credit. it is therefore good that the new multiannual financial framework has given greater weight to financial instruments. however, we still pay too little attention to another problem that particularly affects micro-enterprises, namely the lack of a skilled workforce. member states have reformed their education systems to promote higher education, often at the expense of vocational training. this has resulted in a situation in which almost all member states are short of skilled craftsmen and workers. they are the main market for micro-enterprises. even in the german market, which is seen as a model for vocational training, there are signs of a lack of people willing to undertake a vocational training placement. this is an increasingly important barrier to the development of small and micro enterprises. i therefore wholeheartedly support the report by mrs anthea mcintyre today, which calls for a favourable environment for entrepreneurship.
in writing. - unemployment is a major problem in the eu. although some member states maintain the rate at a safe level, there are cases where it exceeds 20%. creating an environment conducive to job creation is both a challenge and an urgent necessity. small and medium-sized enterprises have a great potential to create new jobs and currently employ some 90 million people, and their condition should therefore be monitored continuously. the needs of the sme sector should therefore be taken into account when decisions directly affecting the conditions under which they operate are taken. with the decline in the number of people who prefer to be self-employed, it is necessary to promote entrepreneurship at the university level. entrepreneurs should also be encouraged to return to the market, even if their previous venture has failed to survive. initiatives offering support to young entrepreneurs are particularly important for shaping societal attitudes towards entrepreneurship. the trend in the market towards higher skilled jobs is also noteworthy. smes can continue to be a very important driver of development and innovation if they can operate within the right regulatory environment. the potential for job creation and effective competition on the world market also depends on requirements and burdens, which should be alleviated or eliminated wherever possible.
in writing. - open educational resources (oer) are educational publications that are legally and technically free to access. they are available under a creative commons license, which means that they can be shared or copied, with the original author indicated. the open educational resources model allows us to take full advantage of the opportunities that the internet and digital technologies now offer teachers. because today, every teacher can co-author textbooks and transform and improve them for their own needs and for the needs of others. such modifications are much more difficult for books or material covered by closed licences.
in writing. - the european union (eu), as one of the most important markets for wild animals and plants and their parts and derivatives, has a particular responsibility to ensure that trade in wild animals and plants and their derivatives is sustainable and does not lead to the risk of extinction of these species. for many years, legislation governing this trade was based on the protection of species, and since 1984 the european union (then the european economic community) has been implementing the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora through the european community (ec) regulations on trade in wild fauna and flora.
in writing. - the regulation currently in force in this case contains a number of loopholes, which have resulted in numerous cases of fraud, resulting for example from false declaration of the origin of the goods. the losses of the member states, calculated on the basis of fraud detections alone, exceed eur 100 million per year. it is therefore necessary to take action to simplify and accelerate the mechanisms to combat this practice. in this respect, it seems justified to increase the commission's powers to enforce the correctness of import and export declarations. with the agreement of the member states concerned, the competent authorities will be able to ask economic operators directly to make the relevant documentation available.
in writing. - it should be a directive. technological progress and effective infrastructure must be used to mitigate the negative impact of certain factors on human health. delegated acts should only be used for technical updates.
in writing. - the european capitals of culture initiative was launched in 1985, to highlight the richness of europeʼs cultures and promote greater mutual understanding between eu citizens. since then, more than 40 cities have been awarded the designation, including my hometown, wroclaw, which will hold the title in 2016. since the rules that govern the selection procedure of the capital of culture expire in 2019, setting a new framework for the selection procedure for the years 2020 to 2033 is important. this is the goal of the current text, which constitutes the compromise between the eu institutions. the agreement entitles the member states which host the capital to designate a city, based on recommendations by the panel of experts. in the case of a candidate or potential candidate country, the commission nominates one city. the cities are then confirmed when officially published in the official journal of the european union. i voted in favour of this compromise agreement as it recognises the important role of the member state hosting the capital. it also provides for the european character of the initiative to be safeguarded, while promoting sustainable infrastructural investments and access to additional sources of eu funding.
in writing. - this initiative is a clear example of the european union's commitment to cultural diversity, but it also shows how culture can unite people across borders. it also proves that the european union is not just a market, but reminds us that culture is at the heart of our common european project.
in writing. - the freedom to provide services is one of the pillars of the eu's internal market. however, cross-border labour mobility taking place within the framework of the european social fund requires the appropriate coordination of cooperation between member states in order to ensure respect for workers' rights. however, the rules designed to regulate and protect the interests of this particular type of worker are often not respected because of limited access to information, its vagueness and incompleteness. this is partly due to the existence of different labour market models. provisions on uniform measures should therefore be laid down at european level, as the posting of workers is a cross-border phenomenon. more rigorous prevention and action against discrimination against workers on grounds of nationality is also necessary in order to ensure that the principles of directive 96/71/ec are respected. while there is clearly a need to combat circumvention, it may also be necessary to establish a register of operators found to be in breach of the provisions of that directive. due to the cross-border nature of the posting of workers, cooperation between the authorities of the state of establishment and the host state is essential. the increased use of imi can contribute to improving the quality of administrative cooperation between member states, but mainly for countries that do not have more effective methods of cooperation. information should be provided without delay and any ambiguities and situations of lack of access to data should be declared without undue delay. the experience gained in the member states and the procedures already developed will be important.
in writing. - the employer, when posting a worker abroad, should guarantee him at least the minimum conditions of employment in force in the host country. however, such provision of services should be of a temporary and incidental nature. this directive requires all ec member states, as well as eea member states, to guarantee minimum conditions of employment to workers posted to their territories. these conditions are laid down in laws, regulations or administrative provisions, collective agreements or arbitration awards recognised as generally applicable.
in writing. - the current threats to the environment are not just those linked to climate change. the high level of human consumption results in the production of a huge amount of waste. their accumulation in the environment threatens, among other things, the introduction of harmful substances into the food chain. the presence of excess garbage in our environment has a noticeable impact on our quality of life. for these reasons, i support the european commission's initiative to reduce the use of the over-popular lightweight plastic shopping bags. these almost non-biodegradable products can be successfully replaced by their biodegradable counterparts or by reusable bags. i would like to see governments reach their citizens with information and advice, because it is our awareness and our individual choices that determine how much waste ends up in landfills. i support ambitious goals to reduce plastic bags and replace them with recycled products or biodegradable bags. i believe that in addition to reducing pollution, these solutions also support local innovation. the incentive to use reusable bags in the form of charges for single-use bags has already proven to be a good practice and should be promoted. at the same time, however, i am inclined to make an exception for disposable bags used for packing take-out meals. as a supporter of an ambitious and fair policy to protect the environment in which we live, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - it is recalled that anti-dumping measures are already in place on imports of psf originating in taiwan. however, the subsidies found in this proceeding are not export subsidies and are therefore considered to be subsidies which have not affected the prices of the exported products and the related dumping margin. therefore, the following countervailing duty rates can be imposed on the cooperating exporting producers in taiwan.
in writing. - a political party at european level is an organisation pursuing a political programme, composed of national parties and of non-attached members, represented in several member states. political parties at european level are an important factor in integration within the union, as laid down in the treaties. they help to shape european consciousness and to express the political will of the citizens of the union.
in writing. - the provisions granting political parties a subsidy, i.e. a grant of budgetary aid to achieve their statutory objectives, were introduced into the political parties act 1997 in the amendment of 12 april 2001. according to the provisions of the act (article 28), the right to receive subsidies from the state budget for the term of office of the sejm is granted to political parties that have obtained at least 3% of the valid votes cast nationwide and to electoral coalitions that have had at least 6% support. in the latter case, the proportions in which the parties forming part of the coalition share the subsidy obtained must be laid down in the coalition agreement. the amount of the subsidy is calculated according to the formula set out in the act. for each vote cast for a party or coalition list, a certain amount is allocated, which decreases in proportion to the total number of votes divided by the respective percentage ranges. the annual grant shall be paid to the parties in four instalments. parties should pool these funds in a separate sub-account. in addition, the law imposes an obligation to allocate between 5 and 15% of the grant amount to the expert fund a separate sub-account, from which the expertise and the publishing and educational activities of the party are to be financed.
in writing. - although the problem of alien invasive species in the environment is not new, there is still a lack of comprehensive ways to solve it. one of the obstacles is the lack of consistent legislation covering all groups of organisms in the ecosystems concerned. the current legal framework, often fragmented, imprecise and contradictory, makes it difficult to combat alien species. according to dr. solarz, our legislation, while imperfect, is already beginning to see the problem. we expect to see a number of important regulations on these issues in the coming years, but it is a separate issue to implement them, adds an expert who deals with alien species on a daily basis. perhaps it would be worthwhile to develop a separate legal act to regulate the issue of alien species in a comprehensive manner, following the example of other countries.
in writing. - i believe that work on this directive should continue in the next term of office of the european parliament. while the first reading succeeded in establishing the legal basis and removing the so-called minimum legal penalty thresholds, which would have introduced unnecessary legal complications, the definition of the eu's financial interests requires further work. it is in our common interest that it be broad, although it is necessary to define certain limits and the scope of the criminal law. it is not possible to include in the legal definition all the elements affecting the eu budget, but it is important to maintain the right proportions. i am therefore in favour of excluding vat from the scope of the directive, since that tax is essentially state revenue. although there is an indirect link between vat revenue and the union budget, this does not justify extending the definition of the eu's financial interests to all vat operations in the member states. this is all the more so as the so-called own resource is calculated on the basis of statistical data and a complex ec methodology, rather than on the basis of actual vat receipts. the directive will be closely linked to the scope of the future european public prosecutor's office. i am therefore all the more convinced that it is reasonable to keep vat within the competence of the member states, since the newly created institution may not be equipped to deal with it effectively.
in writing. - the discharge report of the european parliament in the financial year 2012 shows that parliament successfully implemented its budget, at the same time carried out reforms that resulted in smart savings in many areas. one example is the interpretation and translation services; here reforms allowed for eur[nbsp ]20.9m in savings. another is the restructuring of the ep security service which accounted for eur[nbsp ]11m in savings over the period 2013-2016. though i welcome these improvements, i still believe that more efficient gains can be made by cutting down the multiple seats of the parliament. currently between eur[nbsp ]156m to eur[nbsp ]204m are spent each year on the parliament's geographic dispersion. ending the multiple seat arrangement is our way to ensuring greater efficiency and accountability of our institutions to our citizens and taxpayers. in this context i welcome the court of auditor's analysis of the potential savings for the union budget if the parliament had only one working place. this study is an important step forward. on the background of the financial difficulties and rise of eurosceptic movements across the eu, we must ensure sound financial management for our institution. the discharge report is important policy to achieving that, therefore i voted to support it.
ms šuica, i do understand that you arrived later and even more that you have a lot of important things to share with us. that is why we appreciate hearing your speeches. in fact we have explanations of votes for one more report but we will move them to the evening sitting, so both you and mr plenković will have the chance to take the floor after the voting at 18.00. (the sitting was suspended at 14.00 and resumed at 15.05)
mr. chairman, please! it's a special day for me. this is my last speech here in the plenary. i am very happy and honoured to have worked with such wonderful people, the budgetary officers of the european parliament, who are here today, and i thank you again for all that i have learned from you. at the same time, it is a little sad that we are talking again in the same spirit as at the beginning of the mandate. there is not enough progress on own resources. we have a long way to go, but these reforms are necessary. why would you do that? in recent years, the european union has been enlarged by 12 new member states. the european union has acquired new competences, new responsibilities and new expectations of the european union. she's got new assignments, new areas of operation. at the same time, the system of financing the eu budget has remained virtually unchanged since the 1970s. customs revenue, once an important source of financing for the communities, now represents a small part of the revenue of the union budget. this is partly the result of the progressive liberalisation of international trade, which, ironically, is being promoted by the european union. for me, this is further proof that the union is a victim of its own success. currently, the majority of the funding is provided by membership fees. this, in my view, makes the union heavily dependent on the particular and short-term interests of the member states. the wider benefits of eu integration, such as the creation of an area of democracy, an area of civil liberties, peaceful conflict resolution, a common market, are in this debate, and i very much regret that they are being pushed to the back burner. i was saddened to learn that the council not only did not accept the european commission's proposal to introduce new types of own resources, but also further extended the system of membership rebates. the current system for financing eu expenditure is opaque and lacks independence from the political, often short-term, interests of the member states. it is often said that the last 40 years have seen enormous economic and social changes in europe and around the world. to ensure the smooth functioning of the union, we are obliged to reform the own resources system. new types of own resources need to be introduced, but above all the system needs to be simplified to make it fairer and more understandable to citizens. i am also convinced that a bold, open and honest debate is needed on the benefits of the european union for all member states.
in writing. – parliament’s push for reform on the system of the eu’s own resources has been constant throughout the negotiations on the eu’s multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-20. in these negotiations, parliament backed the commission proposals, which suggested the abolition of the current vat resource and introduction of two new genuine own resources, replacing the current correction mechanisms with a new system of temporary corrections and a reduction to 10% in the share of traditional own resources that ms retain as collection costs. unfortunately, the council’s position only backed a reduction to 20% of ms collection costs on traditional own resources. it upheld the temporary correction mechanisms and decided that the introduction of a new vat resource to replace the existing one still requires further work. parliament expressed, on more than one occasion, disappointment with the council for not making more progress on the reform. the current system puts too much burden on ms national treasuries. it further causes a debate between ‘net receivers’ and ‘net beneficiaries’, which disregards the added value of the eu budget. the longer the council delays a reform, the longer it prevents a genuine, clear, simple and fair system of revenue collection.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the solidarity fund enables the response to major disasters, both within the union and in the candidate countries. it has proved to be a tremendous help to countries affected by floods, hurricanes, forest fires, and droughts. poland also used it, for example, during the massive floods that affected almost the entire country four years ago. however, it seems necessary to establish precise rules for financing, since the fund has not always been used in accordance with the expectations of the beneficiaries. the commission has already carried out a study on the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection. the people are the ones who suffer most. the introduction of a 10% advance payment is therefore a very good solution, which will allow certain operations to be launched immediately. the extension of the period for the disbursement of funds and the deadline for the submission of applications may also be helpful. i welcome the possibility of partial financing for the reconstruction or improvement of damaged infrastructure in order to strengthen its resilience in the event of a possible next disaster. in some cases, this would help to rebuild almost all the destroyed buildings. it is also worth considering extending aid for regional disasters.
in writing. - the european parliament has 20 standing committees and a number of special committees (as required). in addition, committees of inquiry may also be set up in certain situations. each standing committee is responsible for a different area of european union activity. they meet once or twice a month, usually between plenary sessions in strasbourg. these meetings shall be open to the public and shall normally take place in brussels. in the event of an infringement or misapplication of community law, parliament may set up committees of inquiry.
in writing. - national parliaments have been present in the process of european integration from the outset, primarily indirectly, as part of the internal constitutional order of the member states, which, through their governments, have built the communities and then the union by means of public international law. national parliaments ratified the founding treaties, the accession treaties and later the third pillar conventions, transposed secondary european law into national legal systems and monitored their governments' actions on the european scene.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i am very pleased that we have been able to adopt today the long-awaited reform of the solidarity fund and thus, thanks to the changes introduced, to streamline and implement the granting of assistance and to accelerate the disbursement of funds. the possibility of granting advances and extending the deadline for spending additional money is particularly noteworthy, which will certainly make it easier for local governments to implement investments after natural disasters. i know from experience how important this is in helping to repair the damage after natural disasters. my region, podkarpatie one of the poorest in the european union, struggling with infrastructure, economic, social problems in 2010[nbsp ]was severely affected by two floods. in addition, as recently as a few weeks ago, funds were unlocked for podkarpacie, which had been suspended by the european commission as a result of a corruption scandal. thanks to the efforts of the new authorities of the podkarpackie voivodeship and the determination of its inhabitants, these funds will remain in the podkarpackie. i am confident that they will be used as expected and will accelerate the development of my region the podkarpaty region.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the amendment to the european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2001/110/ec because i agree with the view that pollen is a natural component of honey, not a constituent. given the process of production of honey, pollen is naturally present in honey, since it is introduced into the hive only by the bees and is present in the honeycomb completely independent of human activity. if we were to accept that pollen from genetically modified plants is a component of honey, this would lead to a significant increase in the price of this product and to the cessation of production by small-scale beekeepers. the costs of the tests that would have to be carried out to collect the information necessary for the labelling of honey would reduce the profitability of such production and, in addition, would mislead the consumer into believing that such pollen is added to honey at the production stage and that honey is no longer a fully natural product.
in writing. honey is a 100% natural product. pollen is not a component of honey, but a natural component of honey. the bees that collect the nectar carry the pollen, and that's where it's in the honey. recognising pollen as an ingredient of honey would mislead consumers who might think that pollen is added to honey. that's obviously not true. this regulation and the definition of pollen are of great importance for the beekeeping industry. if honey were to be labelled as containing genetically modified pollen, it would lose its reputation as a natural product and, consequently, its positive reputation among consumers. recognition of pollen as an ingredient would increase the cost of labelling studies. the costs would be most burdensome for small producers, as they could undermine the profitability of production. on the other hand, the increase in production costs will lead to an increase in retail prices for honey. the recognition of pollen as a natural component does not mean that labelling will not indicate that the pollen is genetically modified, if this is the case. if the amount of genetically modified pollen exceeds the threshold of 0,9% in the product, then the relevant annotation will appear on the label. i support the report by mrs girling, because we are acting to protect the market for honey producers. i would like to emphasise that the recognition of pollen as a component of honey will not have any harmful consequences for public health.
mr. chairman, please! parliament has a special role and powers in respecting and defending human rights, such as the right to life, non-discrimination, equality, including equality for women, and the rights of children, who are particularly vulnerable to all forms of violence. but one of the most important rights is the right to religion, belief, to cultivate traditions and this cultural diversity. we have written about these rights in our documents, annual reports on human rights, european parliament resolutions and eu guidelines on human rights. is that enough? it turns out that it's not, and it's often in countries that we have relations with, that also have privileged relations with the european union, for example, under various kinds of cooperation agreements, association agreements, and also in countries that receive development aid, or humanitarian aid, or have other cooperation programs. at the same time, according to various organizations that monitor the rights of christians and their persecution on a global scale, such as open doors. north korea continues to lead the world in persecution of christians, with 12 protestants and 800 catholics officially registered, and 100,000 christians underground and considered enemies of the state. there has been an increase in persecution in the sahel countries, particularly in somalia. although the mogadishu government is more moderate, it is noted that in many places there is an underground christian church. pakistan has moved up to 8th place in this ranking of the worst countries for persecution, following the recent attacks. most recently, last fall, nearly 90 christians were killed in a bombing in peshawar. the countries that are at risk of persecution are the central african republic, and we've also talked in this room about what happened there, where the seleka coalition is conducting brutal violence against christians. the same is true of syria. there, nearly 9.5 million people have been displaced by internal conflict. but i'll mention, for example, the 2,500-strong aramaic-speaking minority of christ's day in the vicinity of maluli. this population is doomed to near extinction. worldwide, we have about 180 million christian communities that are subject to this kind of persecution, but also other religious minorities, and the list is growing. recently, there are signs that crimean tatars are also joining this group. the most dramatic situations are when people are killed because they are of a different religion, when their property is destroyed, when the legacy of entire generations is also destroyed, the material legacy, but also the cultural one.
mr. chairman, please! the multilateral free trade system reflects the need for open, market-based trade. the citizens are benefiting. vietnam is now a booming economy, one of the pillars of asean. it's growing at eight percent of gdp. that's why i'm hoping to close trade negotiations before the end of the year, which will translate into expanding our cooperation with this partner. the agreement should emphasise the promotion of free and fair competition. on the administrative front, it is necessary to eliminate customs tariffs and non-tariff barriers restricting the free movement of goods. it should be noted that the country has engaged in what is considered to be human rights violations. the deepening of cooperation with brussels must therefore translate into a significant improvement in this area.
in writing. - i would like to welcome the work on the regulation on new psychoactive substances and the directive establishing minimum rules on the criminal and penalties characteristics of illicit drug trafficking with regard to the definition of drugs. the two reports were closely linked, as the directive also introduced minimum provisions for the regulation. those acts share a procedure whereby new psychoactive substances will be subject to control at union level by means of a low, moderate and high risk classification. i believe that the position adopted by the european parliament is extremely important because of the divergence of national legislation in the eu member states and the need to ensure strict control of new psychoactive substances, including the criminalisation of acts related to their distribution, in order to ensure effective protection of our young people and the general public.
in writing. - new psychoactive substances which have been found to have a serious impact on public health must be subject to control. the so-called market creativity, i.e. the creation of new substances and their mixtures, is a continuous process. current european legislation does not regulate the control of these substances, so legislation is needed to cover substances that are on the market now and will be in the future. the production and distribution of psychoactive substances which are harmful to health must be prohibited and any infringement of this prohibition should be punished. this is the direction taken by the provisions set out in the report by mrs jimenez-becerril barrio. the minimum provisions establishing criminal penalties and sanctions in the field of illicit drug trafficking apply to persons and groups involved in the production and distribution of psychoactive substances that pose a threat to health. i support the report by mrs jimenez-becerril barrio and believe that any action to control and punish illegal activities involving psychoactive substances is essential. i believe that a precise directive setting out the characteristics of offences and penalties in the area of illicit trafficking in psychoactive substances is very much needed, and i therefore agree with the rapporteur. this is also my view in my opinion for the envi committee, which highlights the danger to public health of the uncontrolled entry of new psychoactive substances into the market.
in writing. - i voted in favor of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council framework decision 2004/757/jha of 25 october 2004 laying down minimum provisions on the constituent elements of criminal acts and penalties in the field of illicit drug trafficking, as regards the definition of drug (com(2013)0618 – c7-0271/2013 – 2013/0304(cod)). in doing so, i fully support the prescribed methods of defining illicit drugs. furthermore, i commend the report for its efforts in establishing groundwork for member states to work together on combating drug trafficking. by defining drugs a legal basis is established for member states and their prosecutors to limit access, which in turn protects the citizen from tainted or dangerous drugs. likewise these methods will also help prevent black market and illegal drugs from entering the eu. the penalties put forth in the report can be expanded upon but i view them as a good start which should ultimately be expanded regarding drug trafficking.
madam president! the right to compensation for damage resulting from unfair competition is derived from the community treaties. however, the implementation of the directive has often been hampered by the lack of precise legislation. the directive therefore aims to ensure equal protection for all natural and legal persons. it contains a number of important regulations. for example, national courts will be able to order the defendant to disclose evidence necessary to substantiate the claims of the injured party. it is also explicitly stated that claims may be brought by direct and indirect purchasers who have actually suffered injury due to the overburden.
madam president! japan is one of the leading economies in the world. in virtually every country in the union there are a large number of branches of japanese companies whose products are of high quality. the deepening of bilateral cooperation reflects the interests of both european producers and citizens. the timely conclusion of the negotiations on a comprehensive strategic partnership agreement and its early entry into force should therefore be considered a priority for the further development of economic and political relations with that country. in the current geopolitical situation, tokyo's cooperation with the north atlantic alliance, which began a year ago, is also of importance. i expect systematic progress on this front.
- mr president! - i'm not going to do that. the recent cases of christians being sentenced to death for the offences of painting the prophet muhammad and islam seem unlikely, even unimaginable. the accused christian couple were allegedly sent blasphemous text messages to one of the imams. in march, sawan masih, a christian social activist, was also sentenced to death for blasphemy. the regular acts of violence against the christian minority, such as the burning of houses and temples and other acts of terror, are particularly disturbing, and the authorities turn a blind eye to them. they're often taken for no reason. it is highly shocking that in today's world, in an age of integration and ubiquitous multiculturalism, similar cases occur. unfortunately, this is almost exclusively the case in islamic countries, and pakistan is no exception. according to the open doors global persecution index, discrimination against christians in pakistan has increased dramatically in the past year. as a result, the country moved from 14th to 8th in this, how dreary, ranking. the culmination was the suicide bombing of a church in peshawar in september. it resulted in the deaths of 89 people. i call on the pakistani authorities to stop these shameful acts, revise the blasphemy laws, and above all, ensure the continued safety of all citizens of the country. the application of disproportionate sanctions is not in the canons of human rights, and the abuse of such strict provisions is clearly contrary to the principles of good law.
mr. chairman, please! we are dealing with a country today that has introduced an incredible law, the death penalty for blasphemy against the prophet muhammad. this is not happening anywhere, there is no other place in the world where, for example, in a situation where a neighbor reports to a neighbor, or testifies falsely in court, it is possible to cause the death of another person. this is a violation of basic human rights and we should all say loud and clear: no. we don't know that law, we don't tolerate that law. at the moment, pakistan has restrictions on all religious minorities. here, christians are vulnerable, they can't practice their faith. we have to say that this kind of behaviour is unacceptable in the 21st century. loud shouts to pakistan.
mr president, i think there are about ten of them in the chamber. since this is the last session, i believe you can give time to those who ask for it as part of the catch the eye procedure. that would be a really good thing.
- mr president! - i'm not going to do that. there is still no sign of improvement in syria, and the protracted conflict has already claimed more than 150,000 lives. the use of chemical weapons as a means of mass destruction by the authorities is strongly condemned in documented cases. this is not the first time we have debated syria, because we must be firm and consistent in demanding the removal of the compromised regime of bashar al-assad. the increasing persecution of christians is a cause for great concern. last year alone, more than 1,200 members of this minority lost their lives. the jihadists, financed by terrorist organisations, have led, under the watchful eye of the authorities, to the almost total depopulation of christian communities in homs and aleppo. i would like to express once again my deep condemnation of the actions of the syrian regime and its repeated brutal acts of aggression against christians. these crimes cannot go unnoticed. i look forward to the international community stepping up its efforts to stop further bloodshed. the involvement of european diplomacy in this area seems crucial. the middle east is in the european union's neighbourhood, and the countries that are providing support and shelter to syrians are our partners, or, like turkey, our allies. i ask the high representative to make every effort in the international arena to stop the shameful incidents of discrimination and to bring about a positive solution to this unjustified conflict. i express my regret at the murder of father van der lugt, who in solidarity with the people of homs decided to remain in the city. those responsible for this crime must be held accountable before an independent tribunal.
mr. chairman, please! we strongly condemn the violations of international humanitarian law and human rights in syria, including violence against members of religious and ethnic communities. syria is a country with a great diversity of ethnic and religious groups, and all citizens must be involved in the process of finding an effective political solution to the crisis in syria. the new political system must guarantee equal rights regardless of origin, religion or belief. it is essential to recognise the important role of women in syrian society. our policy towards syria should be strict about the rights of women and children. we have zero tolerance for murder, maiming, kidnapping, the recruitment of minors, the sexual exploitation of children. the european union should continue to provide humanitarian aid to the syrian people. i also reiterate the call that has been repeated here for the referral of the case concerning the situation in syria to the international criminal court.
all the efforts that have been made to mitigate, to end the conflict in syria have been absolutely ineffective. the security council is unable to reach a consensus, and at the same time, the displaced are almost half of the syrian population, they are 150,000 victims, victims of injustice who have died, and this urgently requires a response from the democratic world. minorities, including christians, are the main victims of persecution. before this conflict is resolved, we have to cry out very loudly for these minorities, because when it turns out that we resolve the conflict, these minorities will be gone. we've already mentioned in this room the aramaic-speaking minority: 2,500 syrians speak aramaic in the area of maluli, and i had the opportunity to be there. the situation of this minority is dramatic, it is a language that, as i said, is spoken by 2,500 people, it is a language from the time of christ. i think we have a moral obligation to help these minorities.
mr. chairman, please! in recent months, we have seen a rise in the activity of islamic extremists and an increase in attacks on religious minorities in syria. the commission is also working to develop a new strategy for the prevention of and fight against drug trafficking, which will be based on the principles of the lisbon strategy. syria has an obligation to respect international humanitarian law. i call on the syrian authorities to intervene immediately to protect all communities at risk of repression. i also ask that the attention of the syrian authorities, and indeed the entire international community, be drawn to the escalation of the conflict. the growing number of victims shows that this conflict is not just a political struggle, but also an ethnic and religious one, resulting in the suffering of many innocent people.
- mr president! - i'm not going to do that. kim jong un's regime continues the criminal policies of its degenerate predecessors against its own people. unfortunately, these are the most serious crimes, classified as crimes against humanity. in addition, pyongyang's security services are now specialised in terrorist activities outside the country, including numerous abductions. the situation in north korea requires concrete action by the international community. this last bastion of stalinism, a symbol of shame on the map of the free world, must be dismantled without question. those responsible for repression and mass murder must be held accountable and tried before the international court of justice. meanwhile, this ruling, unblemished, and perfectly organized criminal group in pyongyang has nuclear weapons and missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads. in addition, it funds terrorist organizations in the most volatile regions of the globe. it cannot be excluded that it also supplies the components necessary for the production of nuclear weapons. all of this makes the continued functioning of the state a growing concern and threat in many countries. this is particularly dangerous at a time when we are also in europe struggling with the resurgence of soviet imperialism. the korean peninsula has been divided by a demarcation line for over 60 years, and the two sides are still formally at war. this situation must change and efforts must be stepped up to guarantee the full freedom and security of the citizens of both countries. the final peace will be the culmination of the efforts of many activists and the fulfillment of the dreams of millions of koreans. a free korea is the desire of the whole world.
the author. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. despite expectations, the change of government in north korea has not improved the human rights situation. the country continues to systematically violate international law in this area, ignoring all un recommendations and resolutions. mass executions, arbitrary imprisonment, torture, rape, forced abortion and religious persecution are common practices in korea, frankly, with the permission of the authorities. hundreds of thousands died in korean labor camps, dying of starvation or exhaustion. the state monitors citizens at every turn, controlling access to information, movement within the country, and even their private lives. a un commission of inquiry report released in april this year called the korean policy "a crime against the nation" and called for the prosecution of those responsible and the imposition of sanctions with the support of the international criminal court. the international community must speak with one voice calling for the abolition of labor camps and the abolition of the death penalty in korea while guaranteeing the basic rights and civil liberties of koreans!
mr president, among the major challenges mentioned in appendix 1, i see the cost of energy. but this cost is generated by the eu, thanks to the war on global warming. this war, if effective, would harm the natural environment, because what plants need most for growth is carbon dioxide. fortunately, this war has no effect at all, but the countries occupied by the eu have paid a tremendous price. global warming, if it is real, is not anthropogenic – that is humbug – but it is the instrument to achieve a specific goal, namely ‘zero growth’. this goal, the clandestine dream of some people sitting among us, has been reached, with eur 2 trillion spent and wasted. this is a felony! i hope that in january the prosecution office of the eu will be at last established and that the culprits – including the pseudo-scientists who have supported this lunacy in bad faith – will be found, named, duly prosecuted, tried and put in jail.
mr. chairman, please! it was a very important summit. it was significant for three reasons. first, for the first time, the voices of citizens were heard and influenced - this is a precedent - the choice of the executive of the union, namely the choice of jean-claude juncker, the representative nominated by the winning political party - the european people's party. it is a milestone in shaping the new european union and bringing citizens closer together and reducing the democratic deficit. the second important reason why this was a landmark summit is that the energy union (i.e. the principle of energy solidarity and energy security) has gained political support and there is a chance that it will be implemented so that the european union can have secure, cheap and competitive energy. it will break the political and economic dependence on a monopoly supplier and will not, if it happens, cause high energy prices to stifle our economic growth and increase unemployment. and thirdly, and lastly, there has been great progress in the eastern partnership, great progress in relations with our eastern neighbours, who have chosen european values and have been prepared to pay the ultimate price, the price of their lives. signing the three longest-running agreements with our partners so far is more than 'half-membership', it is a lasting relationship, it is a chance for democracy and prosperity in ukraine, moldova and georgia and for their return to the european family of nations. it is also a proof of the magnetic force of european civilization, of its model that wins with tanks and guns and is a proof of the strength of european democracy.
mr. chairman, please! i listened with great interest to what prime minister samaras and president barroso said, when they said that the generation that is passing has done great things, things that were once unimaginable. gentlemen, please remember, this is today's 50+ generation. we wanted these big changes 25 years ago, and they happened. although we were told about the achievements. what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said today, what you said yesterday, what you said yesterday, what you said yesterday, what you said today, but today's young people, 25+ years old, are not so much interested in hearing about achievements as they are in telling us about their problems, namely unemployment, poverty, injustice, lack of prospects, many unresolved problems, and they say that they are losing faith in the european union as such. so a new parliament has been constituted, a new commission will be set up. there must be a new 'relaunching' of europe, or the problems will only get worse.
mr president, prime minister, please! i would like to thank the greek presidency for a very good job, and i would like to thank them in particular for working on the most difficult directive on the enforcement of the posting of workers. it was the last dossier of the past presidency, and the atmosphere of the upcoming election campaign was making it even more difficult. in this difficult atmosphere, the greek presidency passed the test with 100% success, representing the council in the negotiations of the 'pandora's box', as the directive was colloquially known. in particular, i would like to highlight the excellent work of vassiliki kokkori and the negotiating team representing the presidency. you've done your job very well, very responsibly, very classy. thank you very much for that. i am convinced that this reliability and responsibility in your country will bring great success to the whole of society and a good way out of the crisis, which i warmly wish for greece.
mr president, mr prime minister, the fact is that out of the many presidencies over the last ten years, very few remain in the memory of the european people, and very few have made a difference. most of them were simply indistinguishable from one another. people do not know who has the presidency and a lot of them simply do not care. most of your predecessors, mr prime minister, were sitting in exactly in the same place, were making speeches that were highly predictable. they were saying: yes, we need development; yes, we need to grow; yes, we need to fight unemployment; we have to do something about energy, climate, and so on. there is one way to do it and that is more europe, more unity and more community method. this is a sort of rhetoric, which for my use i call the ‘barroso rhetoric’. your speech was different. we here liked it enormously, and i liked it enormously. it was well put; it was full of literary references; and it was beautifully articulated, but i am not sure if you are aware that you did not tell us much. i have not the slightest idea what you are going to do. i repeat what a colleague of mine said: if you are as good a doer as you are a speaker for at least 30 % or 40 % of the time, then this will be one of the presidencies that will make a difference. anyway, i wish italy good luck. i hope that you have more luck than you had in football recently.
madam president! at the beginning of the new term, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to a very important issue, namely the low turnout in the european parliament elections in may this year. the low turnout in most member states is a very worrying phenomenon and a very clear signal from european voters of their indifference, lack of confidence and lack of hope in our capabilities. the average attendance rate is 43%, and for member states with a persistently low attendance rate, it is still hovering around 20%, with a record 13% attendance in one member state this year. the steps taken under the 'act, react, decide' campaign have not produced the expected results. to respond effectively, we need long-term and precise actions rather than ad hoc activity during the campaign period just five months before the election. we should pay particular attention to young people who are gradually and massively moving away from civic and social issues. so i ask the president of the european parliament: what is he going to do about such an important problem? should we not take five-year, long-term action this time to counter this growing gap between society and the european institutions?
madam president! ladies and gentlemen of the house! i have been an entrepreneur in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector for over 25 years. i know and understand the problems of small businesses and small businesses, who suffer primarily because of the unimaginable amount of legislation that interferes with normal work and making money. for example, taxes in poland are so complicated due to eu rules that they take up to 286 hours of work per year for local entrepreneurs. in terms of tax friendliness, poland ranks 114th in the world out of 185 countries surveyed. i am firmly convinced that the european union should immediately stop creating new laws and start eliminating and simplifying the unfortunate laws we have now. too often, people in this room forget that the economy is built on ideas and work, not administrative rules.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we have five challenging years ahead of us that could determine the future of the european union for decades to come. what priorities? first, we must end the economic crisis and continue to work on the recovery of the euro area. the key will be, among other things, the completion of the banking union, which is intended to prevent future shocks in the banking sector, and the recovery of the economy through new jobs. second, trade negotiations with the united states. we have a responsibility to shape a trade and investment agreement in a sustainable and equitable way to achieve the expected mutual benefits. third, to reduce the ukrainian crisis and create an energy union. europe needs cheaper energy that could drive the reindustrialisation of the continent. fourthly, it is necessary to complete the construction of the common market, which, more than 20 years after its formal establishment, is still incomplete. the greatest scope for action lies in the area of freedom to provide services and telecommunications and energy. fifth, we are facing mid-term reviews of the europe 2020 strategy and the budget and the main community policies, including the cap and cohesion policy. the findings of these reviews should indicate responsibility... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! fellow workers! i want to draw attention to a problem that is important to the european parliament and to our relationship with the citizens. the issue is the respect of the principle of transparency and the openness of voting. the rules of procedure of the european parliament leave much to be desired. the vote to elect the president of the european parliament was not open to the public, but was secret. tomorrow's vote to elect the president of the european commission will also be a secret ballot. i believe that this is not in line with the principle of openness, and only openness guarantees the accountability of politicians to the citizens. i therefore consider that the necessary amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament should be made so that our work is transparent and that votes, especially those of the greatest importance, should be public. i am therefore going to table a draft amendment to the rules of procedure of the european parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in reaction to what the commissioner has said, i would say that we should give ukraine a chance. the situation in ukraine is escalating, but it is being escalated by russia, which is increasing the presence of its military forces and its equipment. contrary to misleading signals from russia, russia did not give up its preferred scenario of creating a frozen conflict there in order to block ukraine’s path to modernity and to europe. we owe ukraine – our associated partner – our assistance and our full political and economic support: support for the peace plan of president poroshenko and also support for ukraine’s right of self-defence, based on article 51 of the un charter, to regain control over its territory and its borders. our mediation is not enough. we are on the side of ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. the eu has special responsibility for safeguarding respect for our values of democracy and rejects the challenging of borders by force through russian action. consequently, we need action towards russia. if russia does not de-escalate or fulfil the requirements which we put on the table, the council decision on further third-stage sanctions should be put into motion in sectors like defence, banking and energy. as a sign of our support and solidarity towards ukraine, parliament should quickly and swiftly proceed with the ratification of the association agreement.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union's work. the european union is a global player on the international stage. it's very important that we have a very precise diagnosis of the process that we're dealing with. this precise diagnosis is particularly needed by the countries and peoples of my region central and eastern europe, including my country poland. we are with ukraine, with the ukrainian people, in their struggle for sovereign statehood, for the territorial integrity of the country. and for many years now we have been observing, we have been observing that the process that is going on in the russian federation, since vladimir putin first took office, is the renewal of neo-imperial policy, that is, the recovery of influence in the post-soviet sphere. the model is very simple: it starts with destabilization, then the installation of a friendly government, then eventually ethnic cleansing, friendly agreements, such as those that allow the presence of military or paramilitary bases and forces. this is what happened in crimea with the annexation, when once again in the post-war history of the world, it was decided to unilaterally question the stability of the borders of a sovereign state, despite the guarantees that important democracies in the world gave. i am very pleased with the action taken by the european union, and i think that the civilian mission is important, but it is far from sufficient. we should go further with sanctions and clear diplomatic signals.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question for my british colleague: why, while respecting the sovereignty of the uk and representing a party that attaches such great importance to this value, do you not respect the sovereign decision of ukraine?
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i've been to kiev, i've only been to maidan six times since november. i know it is very little, but i have the impression that many of the speakers speaking in our parliament today have not been there at all, and they are saying what they are saying on the basis of media reports. and it's not funny, because i've seen young people in ukraine, the children and grandchildren of those who are speaking here today, who fought for the sovereignty of their country. and if they ask me today about this debate in our parliament, i will use my right to remain silent, because i do not want to quote the nonsense that i have heard here. the european union has a duty to support the ukrainian people, because they are part of european culture and will be part of political europe in the future, and let no one say otherwise. it's just a shame to say it.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i would like to refer to the speech by commissioner füle and to the draft resolution on ukraine. the first, and very important, is to stop fighting immediately, stop killing people, stop destroying the country. two: enough chaos: start to bring about economic stability and social stability. three: ukraine should be offered an economic programme, both in the sense of this material sphere and also new institutional and legal solutions. then our 11 billion can make a lot of sense. i also strongly support the demand for continuity of energy supply, energy sources for ukraine at a reasonable price. what is important is our message to russia that the ukrainian issue is a matter where the european union is the partner, not individual countries, that the community method is the most important, not the intergovernmental one. by the way, i don't really understand why two foreign ministers are traveling to ukraine recently, and the polish foreign minister has just sort of dropped by. thank you for your attention.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the diagnosis you have given the european parliament of the causes, effects and what has happened recently. you can't declare war, you can fight it. you can interfere with the territorial integrity of a country by sending unidentified soldiers. all of this we must and we say we must stop. ukraine has done a lot: it has elected a president, it has a government, it is trying to stabilize the internal situation - which is not easy. notice that there are also some time barriers to be put in place to allow for a peaceful solution. we're worried about you. the association and trade agreement is ready it needs to be ratified now. the economic situation in ukraine will not bring quick results for the people, and we as the union should also give a signal that we take the citizens of ukraine seriously, that we respect them. that's why i think that progress on the visa issue would be such a clear signal. let's do this, we're very close to this situation. at the same time, i would like to say to my british colleagues that we remember very well what yalta was, and what the situation was for us in central and eastern europe. do not tell us that we should respect the policy of gas and 'tap hot water' more than the territorial integrity of a non-independent country (the speaker agreed to answer the question raised by the raising of the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
the question asked by raising the blue card. (no question mark) that we are under the influence of aggressive russian propaganda. but there is something far more dangerous. i think the vast majority of the people speaking here don't realize that they're being influenced by very aggressive and very false propaganda of their own. this is much more dangerous because it gives a completely false picture of the situation.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to answer the honourable member that i am in no way influenced by false propaganda, but i assess the right of the ukrainian people to have their own independent state, to have the right to the integrity of that state, to have the right to choose their future, to have the right to choose who they want to form alliances with and which path they want to take. this is the integral right of the ukrainian people. i respect that. poland also made such a choice. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! agreements that are made to improve international trade are usually good. however, there are a few issues that may be of concern. the negotiations, as has been said many times, are conducted in secret. and we know that the united states economy is bigger and stronger than the economies of the european union put together. if the agreement is badly constructed (and since it is constructed in secret, we cannot rule out that this will happen), it may be that europe will become the space of american expansion, and europe in america will have less and less to say. i warn against this because this is what happened in poland after 1989: we have many trade networks in poland, but only one of them is polish; the others are based in western europe. americans care about the environment, even though we think we care about it better. but they don't think - at least not those who make the economic decisions - that reducing carbon emissions can affect climate change and therefore their products are cheaper... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. from the point of view of the whole union, and also from the point of view of my country, poland, one of the most important issues that needs to be negotiated in this agreement should be the abolition of licensing restrictions and free trade in gas between america and the union, as is the case with countries with which the united states has signed free trade agreements. in 2013, the average gas price in the united states was three times lower than in the union, and maintaining this situation in the longer term means moving energy-intensive factories from the union to the united states on a massive scale, which in turn means eliminating hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe. the second issue, which is of great importance for the whole of the union and for poland, and which will be dealt with in this agreement, is the liberalisation of trade in food products, including, unfortunately, genetically modified food and meat containing growth hormones. this issue is unlikely to be excluded from the agreement and therefore immediate action is needed in the union to clearly label such food so that consumers in all countries of the union have an authentic choice on store shelves. if we do not do this, healthy european food, which is probably a little more expensive than american food, will be forced out of the market, and that means serious problems for european agriculture. thank you, sir.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i invited the two main negotiators, from the american side and from the european side, to katowice for the european economic congress. i would like to thank commissioner de gucht for his support of this initiative. i would like to give you some concrete examples of what our small, medium and large businesses are looking for. first, the free flow of raw materials, especially energy resources, is a prerequisite for our competitiveness, for our innovation, for the creation of new jobs on both sides of the atlantic. secondly, if we're talking about reindustrialization, we need to remember that we need a mechanism to compensate for the huge differences in co2 emissions, which is critical for energy-intensive industries. we need to be on the same page on both sides of the atlantic. thirdly, cooperation in the fields of research, innovation, standards, regulations and norms. and finally, fourthly, we are opening up the market to america, we need to organise our own market well, to build a common energy market, a common telecommunications market. these were the conclusions drawn from what european entrepreneurs had to say on the subject.
mr president, ttip represents unquestionable geopolitical benefits. however, it is predominantly a trade agreement and therefore it must be economically beneficial to eu companies. companies that invest and produce in europe hire european workers and pay taxes in europe. the reality is that we have very high regulatory costs (thanks to ets, reach and the like), much higher electricity prices, a very high gas price – and now we will remove all duties on imports from the us where the gas is a quarter of our price, and electricity is one half. how are we to compete with this? just to be clear, i am in favour of this partnership, but we need the commission to negotiate a beneficial deal that will address the higher costs of regulatory compliance in the eu and does not put in danger eu industries that create hundreds of thousands of jobs and pay millions of euros in taxes every year.
madam president, while we should certainly look at the ttip from the point of view of the economic opportunities it will generate, it is also clear that its public perception matters strongly. ttip will be attracting a growing amount of public attention, and there are legitimate anxieties linked to it which will have to be addressed. but we must not see ttip as a simple sum of individual stakeholder interests. it is an unprecedented strategic deal between the largest economies and democracies of the world, with robust welfare growth and job consequences for the transatlantic citizen. it is a deal with significant global relevance. while the benefits from the deal will be more mid- to long-term, the confidence of the citizens needs to be earned today. this is also our responsibility in this house. it is up to us in the european parliament to reflect on how the critical mass of the benefits can be measured and it is also up to us in the european parliament to contribute, in a constructive way, to the final assessment of its added value.
madam president, a comprehensive agreement on trade liberalisation between the eu and the us is urgently needed, given the growing competitive pressures coming from emerging new powers such as china and india. the planned opening of markets offers important economic benefits. the ttip would increase the gdp of both partners by between about 0.5% and 1% if implemented fully. the agreement would also make sense for political reasons as it would consolidate the long-term strategic alliance between the eu and the us which is necessary to confront new risks and challenges in the era of globalisation and international conflicts. we must not miss this unique opportunity; removal of trade barriers is necessary to increase the competitiveness of european firms and to create new jobs in europe. of course there are also risks involved. the level of protection in areas such as personal data protection or health and veterinary standards should not be reduced. also transition periods should apply in sectors where us firms enjoy a large competitive advantage, but on balance this agreement deserves our support.
in writing. the entry into force of the ttip will create the world's largest trading area, which is undoubtedly a tempting argument for its early adoption. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that the agreement will cover not only market access but also investment protection, services, public procurement, non-tariff barriers and trade-related rules. the agreement is also likely to benefit eu industry estimated to bring in about €120 billion a year for the eu. for consumers, the agreement means cheaper products, especially electronics, which are still eagerly imported from the us. however, market opening risks lowering eu standards for consumer safety and employment conditions. the ttip is also often compared to acta, due to the high risk of insufficient protection of personal data for eu citizens. the most questionable mechanism is known as 'investor-state dispute settlement' (isds), a provision in international trade agreements that gives an investor the right to bring proceedings against the state in which it has business. the negotiations on ttip are also not facilitated by the trail of the nsa's spying programmes in the eu. in view of the above concerns, it is important to establish the conditions without which the contract cannot be accepted (protection of personal data, workers' rights, transparency of the negotiation process).
in writing. as the european parliament, we should, within our powers, strongly support the negotiating process for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the eu and the us and monitor its progress on an ongoing basis to ensure tangible benefits for citizens. the removal of barriers to trade and investment will undoubtedly translate into economic growth in both europe and the americas. it will also have a positive impact on the global economy. the agreement should be structured in such a way that its provisions in the future contribute to the creation of more jobs, to the improvement of investment conditions and to the reduction of administrative burdens. ttip has the potential to bring many tangible benefits to ordinary citizens and european businesses: lower prices for online purchases, easier access for smes to the us market, and increased exports to the us. the agreement could also have a positive impact on improving europe's energy security. gas prices from the united states could be reduced, and access to innovative energy technologies would also be improved. for the agreement to deliver all these benefits, it is necessary to take due account of differences between the eu and the us in production costs, legislation, production processes and economic and social conditions. the eu and the us have a very strong chance of improving economic growth and the labour market. i hope we use it properly.
in writing. a year has passed since eu and us representatives began negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). now, the enthusiasm for this deal is much less than it was a year ago. on both sides of the atlantic, there is growing resistance from some social groups. the growing resistance to ttip in both europe and the us is largely due to the disillusionment of some sections of society with the process of globalisation, which has benefited mainly large corporations, and both economies have experienced deindustrialisation. in europe, there are also concerns about differences in labour costs in favour of americans using cheap latin american labour and more than twice as cheap energy in the us. in the eu, we also have serious concerns about maintaining our highest standards in the world for food production and animal welfare. the american "we" is the import of hormone-laced meat, chlorine-laced poultry, and the invasion of genetically modified foods. in addition, in the area of intellectual property rights, we are in favour of maintaining european geographical indications which guarantee that the interests of our producers are protected. the trade and investment agreement is clearly needed by both sides, which are facing increasing economic pressure from new powers such as china, india and brazil. the creation of a transatlantic free trade area can bring further growth in trade and investment on both sides of the atlantic.
madam president! the european union, including poland, is experiencing a serious demographic crisis. the fertility rate in poland is one of the lowest in the world at 1.3, placing my country 212 out of 224. for law and justice, the party i represent, family-friendly policies are an essential pillar of social policy. we believe that family policy should be a matter of common concern through funding from the european social fund, while action to strengthen families, their sustainability and economic independence should be the responsibility of the nation states. the directive on minimum maternity leave promotes many good solutions. efforts should be made to provide effective support for motherhood and fatherhood. it is time for europe to tackle the demographic crisis not with words but with real action.
madam president! for years we have been involved in the european union's struggle to ensure equal treatment for men and women, with a number of fair but often forced solutions. but we should realize that there is one biological relationship that women should have greater legal protection through - and that is motherhood. in the light of the major demographic problems that many regions of europe are facing today, should we not see motherhood as one of the social investments whose costs are shared across society, in the form of more day-care centres, kindergartens or schools and activities for children, complemented by legal protection for women in terms of labour law? the conclusions of the june council meeting on women and the economy contain provisions on gender equality in the light of equal responsibility for children and domestic work, with emphasis on paternity leave and flexible childcare. these are not issues that can be delayed, especially in the context of the employment crisis among young people, including women, for whom the current situation is leading to an increasingly late maternity and sometimes to a complete abandonment of it. i hope that the commissioner's declaration today on the preparation of new solutions will ensure that they are reasonable and sound.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, we are not here to discuss the content of possible policies to support maternity leave. i can only say concerning the procedure and the whole process that blocked legislation does not help anybody. it creates wrong expectations: we have something in the air and in fact nothing happens. so withdrawal of the blocked legislation does not affect anybody. in its refit communication in june, which was also greatly welcomed by the members of the european parliament and the wider public as well, the commission stated that on the grounds of better law-making a proposal which is blocked for more than two and a half years should be withdrawn. the effective withdrawal decision would have to be taken in the context of adoption of the commission work programme 2015. i would like to repeat that withdrawal does not mean that the commission does not want to pursue the objectives of the proposal. today the newly elected president will discuss with the new college how the policy objective behind the proposal could be taken up in a different form, taking account of societal developments since 2008 as well as the social and economic effects of any eu initiative in this field.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully and i shall take a little longer to reply than vice-president kallas, because the role of the presidency has been raised on several points, first of all on the subject of subsidiarity. mr mann, mr šuica, mr ansip and mr corazza bildt have raised the danger of possibly working or reopening a debate, reopening work on one-size-fits-all solutions. obviously, nobody wants one-size-fits-all solutions, and in my speech i raised one of the subjects under discussion in the council, which is the subject of subsidiarity. but it is clear that we are starting from a 1992 directive and therefore it is clear that the european union has competence in this matter. it will be a question of the extent of legislative intervention, but not whether the european union has competence in this area. it is certainly a very important matter, on which there are very strong national sensitivities, and so it is certainly necessary, if work is to be resumed, to find a balance between the different traditions and it is also necessary to reconcile social values, sometimes the different social values which in the different member states, as was shown in the debate in the council but also today, are linked to the family. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should not be involved in the negotiations. i agree with mrs harkin that a compromise must be found. as vice-president kallas said, a compromise is certainly much better than a blockade, because a blockade of legislation serves no one. but a compromise requires flexibility, which is the magic word at the beginning of this term, it requires flexibility. and resilience and flexibility, when there are two authorities that have to make decisions, has to be demonstrated by both sides. the new presidency must show that it is committed to exploring the possibilities, but the new european parliament must also show that it is. so i would also like to reassure mr zuber that we would like to work towards a consensus on the merits, because we share the social concerns on the merits. there is certainly a will on the merits, during the work of our presidency and in any case as our position, to work also on possible minimum standards which are acceptable to all. we therefore also want to acknowledge the important work that this institution has done in the past legislature and also the efforts that the presidencies that have preceded us have made on this subject. but it is clear that, given the still distant differences between our two institutions, the only possibility we are prepared to explore, the only possibility we are prepared to work on in order to make further progress, is that these positions on both sides, on one side and on the other, evolve substantially. so, as i said in my introductory remarks, if there is a concrete political sign from both legislators of significant moves, the italian presidency would be more than happy to take the opportunity to see if further progress can be made. i want to say this clearly to mr steinruch, mr vallina, mr urtasun, mr ludvigson and mr honeyball, who have all mentioned in different ways that this directive has been stalled for four years. if they know and have followed four years of negotiations, they are also aware of the obstacles that are in this negotiation. it has not remained four years by chance, it has remained four years because there are very strong obstacles within the council. so, without changes, it's hard to move forward after four years of stagnation. i thank mr costa, mr arena, mr regner, mr garcía pérez and mr bilbao for the confidence they have in the italian presidency. i confirm our commitment to develop a social dimension and i confirm our commitment also to start from the thematic side, to start cooperation between the two institutions on legislative matters well, perhaps by seeing if it is possible to reopen this dossier. the serious work has been done by the european parliament and the council of ministers. despite the serious work done by the council of ministers and parliament, the positions are very different. mr rodrigues, no disrespect to your institution, but as mr tarabella rightly points out, can we work on a middle way of compromise? if there is the political will of the european parliament and the council to work towards a middle way of compromise, the presidency is at your side to work towards that. and that would be, in my view, in our view, the best way to have that fresh new start, that new beginning which i was pleased to hear vice-president kallas quote and which, as you know, is the motto of the italian presidency of the council of the european union.
in writing. the debate on the amendment of the maternity leave directive has been ongoing for six years. this shows how divergent the positions of the individual member states and the european parliament are on this matter. despite this difficult process, i believe it would be a mistake to withdraw the draft directive. i understand the arguments of member states who have difficulty accepting the proposal for a directive, but i know from the example of my country - poland - that there are effective ways of reconciling social and economic issues in the matter of maternity leave. in poland, we have been working for some years to extend the rights of working parents, not only by extending maternity leave but also by introducing flexible forms of its use. i realize that this is a budgetary effort, but i think that given today's demographic challenges, it should be treated as an investment. because i believe that to do nothing about this is to take a short-term action, to shift today's savings onto the pension systems of our children.
madam president! as one of the measures to tackle youth unemployment, it is proposed to increase the transnational mobility of workers, which is of course in the interest of those countries which like germany suffer from a lack of labour. freedom of movement and settlement is a great achievement of europe. and i'm not in favor of closing the borders, as some of my colleagues here are. but we must also be aware of the impact of migration on the countries from which young people leave. this is the case in many central and eastern european countries, for example poland, where more than 2 million people, mostly young people, have left since 2004. if it weren't for this emigration, unemployment would be much higher. but the departure of young people is deepening the demographic crisis, contributing to economic and political stagnation, and robbing these societies of their dynamism. moreover, immigrants often work much below their qualifications, often in conditions that are not worthy of the standards of the country in which they live. another reason for emigration is the desire to start a family, which young people cannot afford in their own country. the european union has a long-term strategy for the future, and it is not just the european union that is facing this challenge. it is only a confirmation of the inequality between european countries. i ask that all programmes for youth employment also take this aspect into account.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, frankly, the issue of youth unemployment should not be discussed in this house, nor by parliament or the commission. the more we produce standards, regulations, directives, regulations, resolutions, the worse it is for all entrepreneurs, and therefore for young people who are taking their first steps on the labour market. it is my deepest conviction that the facilitation of employment is not just for young people, but for everyone. all social and occupational groups should have equal access to the labour market. so what can we do to really make it easier for young people to get their first job and for other workers to get their next job? each country should answer this question for itself, depending on its economic situation, political conditions and cultural traditions. in the case of poland, the tax and administrative burden that strangles every polish company should certainly be reduced.
madam president! although the european economy is slowly but steadily emerging from the crisis, the labour market situation remains worrying. the frustration and hopelessness of young people who cannot find work is staggering. as members of the european parliament, we have a moral obligation to give priority to the issue of youth unemployment and to support instruments that will actually improve the situation of europe's young people. for many years, we have complained about the poor quality of education in the european union. despite a youth unemployment rate of over 23%, nearly 4 million jobs remain unfilled due to a lack of workers with the right skills and qualifications. the appropriate reform of education systems within the framework of the common european strategy to repair education, which we are only talking about and unfortunately doing nothing about, should be the first and fundamental step towards improving the situation on the labour market. the union should focus on developing a dual training system and creating structures for early personalised vocational guidance. this will allow them to make more informed choices about their educational path and subsequent career. the youngest children should be given access to education and the widest possible initial knowledge base, so that they can be re-qualified much more quickly and easily in the future, when the labour market changes. investing in young people pays off. promoting mobility can also significantly increase the employment opportunities of young people. unfortunately, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, we are too often confronted with mobility resulting from the lack of prospects and the very difficult socioeconomic situation of some countries - this should not be the case! it nevertheless confirms the need for appropriate reforms of social and employment policies.
blue-card question. – mr gutiérrez prieto is from spain and he should remember that spain was the leading power in the world but it got its gold from south america and dropped to third or fourth place. money does not help. money harms. because if you get money you buy something from abroad and you are losing jobs and not getting them.
mr president, john fitzgerald kennedy, introducing the first bill on the minimum wage, said, frankly, that it was to protect industry in the north from competition from cheap labour from the south. four million people lost their jobs. then it was four million niggers but now we have 20 million europeans who are the negroes of europe – a full 20 million young people are negroes from europe. yes, they are treated like negroes. we must destroy the minimum wage and we must destroy the power of trade unions because the trade unions… (objections)…listen to me, the trade unions are the instruments of … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. in poland, youth unemployment is over 28%, which is more than a quarter of people under 25. although this is better than in greece (over 58%) and spain (over 55%) and slightly lower than the eu average (23.5%), the polish problem is just as serious. youth unemployment not only has harmful economic consequences (no income, low living standards, poor consumption) but also has a negative impact on society as a whole. an army of young, highly educated people is growing up who are getting used to the idea that they can exist without work. this causes an increase in crime and threatens social stability. the race of generations is sinking, and it threatens to be a future civilization disaster. employers are selfishly exploiting the situation on the labour market and in poland they are increasingly employing young people for so-called junk wages, without providing them with basic social security. thus, young people with poor pay and training are gradually crowding out older, more experienced, but more expensive professionals. i believe that the european parliament, in tackling the problem of youth unemployment, should do so in the context of a wider social and economic context which goes far beyond the temporary solutions which have been used so far. the degradation of work is not only a serious existential problem, but also a psychological factor: the need for self-fulfillment in the process of creating civilization.
in writing. to increase youth employment effectively, we need to work together, in a coherent and effective way, with the member states. increasing employment for young people requires complementary action in the fields of employment, social, youth, economic and education policies. the increase in the chances of young people in the labour market is undoubtedly linked to their preparation and qualifications. education plays a key role in this respect, providing young people with the appropriate preparation to function in a changing labour market. it is important to introduce early vocational guidance into the education system. vocational training is directly linked to the labour market and its curriculum should therefore be consulted with employers' corporations and all other interested parties, including youth organisations, vocational guidance centres, training institutions, research centres, non-governmental organisations, etc. it is also crucial to increase the number of practical modules at all levels of education, which will help to develop the skills and professional competences of young people and increase their chances of finding a job. finally, the effectiveness of the measures depends on the fulfilment of the above criteria: the community and coherence of the measures, the modernisation of the vocational education system in the light of the needs of the labour market and the coordination and monitoring of the initiatives taken in terms of their effectiveness.
in writing. the fact that one in five young europeans is unemployed is the biggest threat to the eu's future today, both economically and socially. comprehensive reforms of labour market and education systems are therefore urgently needed. training programmes should better prepare graduates for the demands of the labour market, close cooperation between education and business is necessary, and entrepreneurship education is needed at all stages of education. it is also worth returning to proven forms of dual and vocational education, such as apprenticeship. i am convinced that well-prepared and carefully monitored implementation of the youth guarantee can bring about positive change. however, it is also necessary to create favourable conditions for the development of smes, which account for over 66% of jobs in europe. it is necessary to remove bureaucratic barriers and to introduce incentives for self-employment and micro-entrepreneurship. i also believe that a coherent strategy for reindustrialising europe can contribute to a long-term improvement in the labour market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. the question we have to ask today is whether we are dealing with a budgetary problem, that is to say, whether we are dealing with a problem of not having enough cash paid in, whether we are dealing with a problem of bad calculations, of bad forecasts as regards the level of expenditure, or whether we are dealing with a political problem. i'm more of a believer in that. if we signal that we lack money in the budget for a particular policy or policies, and let us remember that cohesion policy is based on co-management by the commission and by the member states if we signal that we have a hole in the budget, and yet let me remind you the budgetary contributions are 1 per cent of gross national income let us not exaggerate that this will overturn national budgets. if we give that signal, it means that we also give a signal that we are no longer supporting certain policies, that we are no longer interested in certain policies, that we will not say it out loud, we will not say it directly, we will not do it de jure, but we will do it de facto. in other words, we're not closing our priorities, but we're not going to have the money to do it. this is a very dangerous political signal and therefore we are not only dealing with a budgetary problem, but with an attempt to change european policy.
mr. chairman, please! i think we are aware of this, because it was the european parliament that adopted the assumptions for both this multiannual budget and the current budget. and there are obligations for both payments and everything that goes along with those payments. this commitment is binding on the eu institutions and therefore we cannot say at the moment that the temporary difficulties are the reason why the tasks carried out cannot be financed. they need to be funded. i fully agree with what mr olbrycht said, that this is a political decision. after all, it is actually 1% of the budget and this money is earmarked for cohesion policy investments for regional development too. my british colleagues are worried that these are being taken away from the regions, no, they are being financed by the regions. they're for improving infrastructure, they're for creating jobs. they also help small and medium-sized enterprises to develop. it is also the opportunity to create jobs for young people, which we have been talking about for a few hours in this chamber. that is why i think it is our duty to strike a balance between commitments and payments.
madam president! the situation is serious, said a representative of the high representative, saying that the islamic state is being targeted by militants who are currently fighting for the islamic state in iraq and beyond. human rights are being violated. the humanitarian situation is even more difficult, and of course this situation should concern us, because the last debate on iraq was held in this chamber in february, in the previous term. i also spoke about the deteriorating internal situation and the endangered security of people, and in particular of minorities, including religious minorities, christian minorities and all refugees. since then, the situation has worsened many times. at the same time, relations between the central government and the kurdish autonomy have been strained. this means that we may soon be witnessing, not de jure, but de facto, the creation of a new state, which will be iraqi kurdistan. we would not want that, of course, and that is why the calls for the kurdish autonomy to support this process of rebuilding iraq are most appropriate. there are tensions between the shia majority, which has strong spiritual leadership, and the sunni majority, which does not have such strong leadership. and then, of course, there's the disparity, the disparity in the population of these communities. there is a real danger of a major crisis that could lead to a major confrontation. and this is being signaled by, among others, by iraqi christian bishops who say that they are trying to be a bridge between these two islamic communities so that this doesn't lead to a great humanitarian crisis, doesn't lead to, god forbid, to some kind of genocide, because this is very real in this very tense place that is iraq.
this discussion today is taking place at an absolutely pivotal moment for iraq. iraq is just falling apart. there is a bitter tribal and religious war going on. on its territory, a muslim caliphate is being established on the one hand, and on the other hand - as is becoming increasingly evident - the kurds are forming their own state. despite all the drama, i believe that the union should not intervene in these conflicts in a military way. nor should it support any of the parties to this conflict in terms of military instruments. we should instead put much stronger pressure than we have had so far on the iraqi authorities to build a new structure for the state. the point is that these state authorities should take into account not only the interests of the shiites, but also those of the sunnis and the kurds. then, i think, there would be a better chance of a peaceful resolution to this conflict.
madam president, the main problem in iraq today is prime minster al-maliki, who is acting as a dictator. he has created the current crisis through his repressive polices against the iraqi people, especially against the sunnis, as well as the christians and the kurds. the solution is therefore to remove al-maliki, who has been a puppet of the iranian regime, and to form a national unity government. we should stop tehran’s interference, because the iranian regime is the real source of problems in the whole region. i should emphasise that the majority of those involved in the iraqi uprising are local tribes, young sunnis and foreign military officers, and not the extremists of isis, as has been portrayed. we should support the iraqi people’s demand for change and an inclusive government. if we allow al-maliki to continue his repression it will only lead to more extremism in this country.
madam president! iraq is on the brink of civil war and disintegration. isis, the bloody jihadist rebellion, is expanding its reach all the way to baghdad. the situation is made worse by the incompetent, divisive government of prime minister nuri al-maliki. this situation has caused unprecedented suffering to the civilian population, including christians. coordinated action by the international community is needed to promote a political dialogue between all groups in iraqi society leading to the emergence of a government of national unity. we need urgent humanitarian action.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i wanted to ask mrs. anderson if you think we should pass this resolution. if so, do you realise that being too forward in your demands will contribute to its rejection and, after this criticism, could you at least mention three or four advantages of this proposed resolution?
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. my dear fellow! would you agree that the most consistent fact is not a new fact, but an unchanging fact that hamas rejects peace, both in the permanent sense, because it rejects the existence of the state of israel, and in the current sense, because it is hamas that rejects the truce proposed by egypt?
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to the hospital. the first casualty of war is the truth. and in this situation, we are dealing with baseless accusations against israel. how would you react if your country was attacked from a neighboring country? how would you react if there were armed gangs operating in the territory bordering your country? are you aware that under international law, the very existence of armed gangs on your territory is a war crime, an act of aggression. finally, do you realize that this condemnation of israel by the international court of justice, which you mentioned, did not take place because the court did not issue a judgment? the court of justice has only delivered an advisory opinion.
the question asked by raising the blue card. can you deny that all the wars that israel has had to fight for 66 years have been caused either by aggression against that country, or by preparations for aggression, or by terrorist attacks against that country? is not the questioning of the existence of the state itself the greatest threat to human rights, to the rights of the people who live in that state?
acting president of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, 17 july, is the international day of justice, which coincides with the 16th anniversary of the rome statute of the international criminal court, which was adopted on 17 july 1998. with the rome statute the world has consolidated its historic commitment to prevent and deter the most heinous crimes. the implementation of this promise of justice for the victims of crimes under the rome statute is a moral imperative and at the same time an essential contribution to peace, security and well-being in the world. today the international criminal court is the backbone of the international criminal justice system and an important instrument for holding to account those responsible for the most serious crimes of international concern. the eu, as is well known, has a strong tradition of strong support for the international criminal court. we believe that the international community finds an efficient court of justice to be an indispensable instrument in combating impunity and promoting an international order based on the rule of law. the international criminal court will remain an important priority for the european union in the years to come. we therefore welcome the debate in plenary today on the crime of aggression. the active involvement of the european parliament in this important issue for human rights and international justice is essential. the rome statute review conference, held in kampala, uganda, from 31 may to 10 june 2010, marked a milestone by providing a forum for states, international organisations and civil society representatives in kampala to reaffirm their commitment to promoting the statute and to taking stock of international criminal justice, but not only. the kampala review conference also marked an important step in the consolidation of the international criminal court as an effective instrument by which the international community brings to justice those criminally responsible for crimes under the rome statute when national courts are unable or unwilling to prosecute them. the review conference adopted important amendments to the rome statute, including the definition of the crime of aggression and the conditions under which the international criminal court can exercise jurisdiction in this matter. the amendment must now be ratified or accepted by the states parties to the rome statute. provided that a sufficient number of ratifications are made and that a two-thirds majority of states adopt a decision to that effect after 1 january 2017, the international criminal court will be able to exercise jurisdiction over the crime of aggression. as this parliament is aware, all the member states of the european union are parties to the statute and some have even already ratified the kampala amendment on the crime of aggression. in others, however, the ratification process is in its final stages or at any rate advanced, while others have indicated that they do not intend to ratify this amendment at the moment. the european union cannot ratify the amendment as it is not itself a party to the rome statute. however, with the facilitation of the european external action service, the member states of the european union exchange information and, where appropriate, coordinate on the progress of the ratification process. our common goal in this process is clear: further strengthen the court to fulfil its mandate. the rome statute is a promise to the victims of the worst atrocities in the world, a promise that they will get justice, a promise that by seeing the guilty face up to their responsibilities, the affected communities will be able to move beyond violence to peace, from lawlessness to the rule of law. few of us could have foreseen, ten years ago, that the court would become the focal point of all discussions on the fight against impunity. few of us imagined, ten years ago, that the court would be able to prosecute crimes committed in 15 countries spanning three continents. but many have worked towards this goal and welcome the results achieved, both in the parliaments and in the european parliament. today's debate on the crime of aggression illustrates once again how, within the framework of the rome statute, the institutional criminal court continues to play, together with national courts, an essential role in ensuring justice for the victims of the most heinous crimes.
on behalf of the ppe group. we have had the opportunity on many occasions, in particular in the subcommittee on human rights, to hear updates on the functioning of the international criminal court. we have also made some recommendations to strengthen the role of the court and all the activities in which the european union could support the court. the kampala amendment to the rome statute defines the concept of the crime of aggression, which is to be subject to the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. to do so, these amendments must be ratified by at least 30 countries. so far, as we note in the resolution we will be voting on tomorrow, it has been ratified by 14 countries, including 8 member states of the european union. i hope that in the near future there will be more of these countries, including my own country, poland, which is already in the final stages of the ratification process. the crime of aggression is invading another country, but also firing at it, blocking its ports. aggression can be carried out by either a regular army or by supporting irregular armed forces on the territory of another state. i am convinced that if these amendments had been enacted a few years ago, perhaps we could have avoided at least some of the conflicts that have occurred since then, and thus, most importantly, we could have avoided a lot of human suffering and a lot of national tragedy. tomorrow is world justice day. i think that the adoption of this resolution calling for the swift completion of the ratification process by those states that accept the kampala amendments would be a very important step on that day.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. aggression is historically considered the most important crime under international law. it also often provides the means or even the impetus for further international crimes, such as war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. the international community needs a universal legal definition of aggression, because unfortunately, we don't have one. the london conventions of 1933, which formulated such a legal definition, are binding on only about 10 countries, including my own poland. unfortunately, only in their relationship. in contrast, un general assembly resolution 3314 of 1974, which is universal, like all un general assembly resolutions, is not a legally binding definition. the adoption of the kampala amendment to the icc statute will therefore create a new quality, equip this court with the ability to punish the perpetrators of aggression and give us a legal definition that will be binding. at the same time, it will be adopted as a target model by a large part of the international community. but let us not forget that today, on the basis of universal jurisdiction, the perpetrators of the crime of aggression can be punished in this way by national courts, not only their own, but also by international criminal tribunals ad hoc, established after the crime of aggression or other international crimes. let's take advantage of that opportunity.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. meriam yahia ibrahim, sentenced to death in khartoum for alleged apostasy from islam, is awaiting a new trial. this was the decision of the sudanese supreme court, no doubt under pressure from many countries and international organizations. the case of 27-year-old meriam's death sentence is not unique. every year, unfortunately, many people in sudan are killed for this reason, if not by the state, then by their own families. meriam yahya ibrahim is a muslim according to sharia law, so the court declared her marriage to a christian invalid and the marriage to be adultery. the woman was arrested eight months pregnant. this event is emblematic of the increasingly harsh policies of the sudanese authorities and the growing intolerance towards religious minorities, activists, oppositionists and women's rights organizations. but sudan is also a party to the un treaties on respect for freedom of conscience and religion and is obliged to uphold these values. this also applies to freedom of assembly, freedom of political activity of ngos and women's organisations.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in the case of the persecution of christians, in the case of the violation of religious freedom, not only declarations are needed, but very concrete and decisive actions. of course, i support the resolution on sudan, on the persecution of meriam ibrahim, but i would like our action - the action of the european union on this matter - to be very decisive. prime minister renzi said two weeks ago, "there is no sanction for the persecution of christians. i am taking him at his word and i want all the eu institutions to be very firm and consistent on this issue. we defend meriam ibrahim and we defend persecuted christians not only because of religious freedom but also because christianity is the foundation of european civilization. there is no europe without a foundation in christianity. these are two powerful reasons why we should be very firm in this matter. in this and in all other cases of persecution of christians.
madam president! the meriam ibrahim case is a drama of a woman first of all, it is a drama of a mother who could not give birth to her child under normal conditions, but in prison for something that is a normal human right, because every person has the right to practice the particular religion that he chooses. she decided she would be a christian and also marry an american. and that's why she went to prison, not because she committed any crime. the european parliament has adopted resolutions on this issue, on the freedom and respect for the rights of christians in the world. guidelines were also adopted on how to proceed through european diplomacy in the field of persecuted religious minorities, including christians. this is a serious case, and this is an example of how sudan is breaking those rules. as a european parliament we cannot remain silent, and i would like to thank all those who contributed to the drafting of the resolution. i'm going to vote for her very strongly.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the rights to freedom of assembly and expression are among the most important in democratic societies and those aspiring to democracy. nevertheless, the right to religious freedom, including the right to practice one's religion, is important. in fact, it is the more important law, since it sets minimum limits on the respect due to those who seek fundamental values. it should be noted that this right is also not respected in egypt, both at the normative level and above all in practice. egypt is one of the most dangerous places in the world for christians. their lives are in constant danger. and they make up about 10% of the population of this very populous country. the authorities do little to protect their communities from brutal attacks, which often involve shooting at defenseless people and burning down places of worship. such attacks are often accompanied by the seeming indifference of local authorities. i regret the restrictions on freedom of assembly and speech in egypt, but we cannot help but remind you that there are far more terrible things happening there as well.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the ambassador! you were talking about a change of power in egypt. but do you realize the situation in egypt before this change of power? churches were burned, the geopolitical situation was destabilized, relations with israel were destabilized. all of this was not in the interest of human rights in egypt or the security of europe. if we want our humanitarian arguments to be heard, we need to be fair to the situation in this country and to the parties to this conflict.
madam president! i'd like to continue what i said earlier. i think we should focus on appeals for clemency for opposition members sentenced to death. harsh punishment never solves social problems. we should focus on the release of european journalists who are in egypt and on freedom of speech in general. but it is not good for all of this to ignore the conditions of preserving freedom for all in egypt, including freedom for christians, and preserving egypt's position as a country that can cooperate constructively with its neighbors. we remember the path of social destabilization that egypt was on under previous governments. so when we make our harsh judgments, we must always remember that we must address them to the authorities who are able to hear them. it seems that this was not the power that was removed in egypt by the current government.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i wanted to ask mr. belder, do you think that any sanctions against the nigerian government could cause the nigerian government to really fight this sect, because we have the impression that the nigerian government is either unable or unwilling to take real action to fight this horrible sect that is targeting children, women, not just men?
madam president! the european parliament's resolution on the situation in nigeria is very important and i therefore strongly support it. the terrorist criminal organization boko haram not only kills, but as its name suggests, it also destroys education and culture. in april of this year, more than 200 girls were kidnapped from the school, who could be sold as slaves. this dramatic news has already been reported worldwide. most of us in this parliament are not only members of parliament, but also parents. after all, children are our world. therefore, every effort must be made to return the abducted schoolgirls to their families. the decisive action and close cooperation of the government of nigeria, the european union, the african union and the united nations is crucial. it is also important to ensure that all possible assistance is provided to the families of the abducted persons. in the long term, the european parliament should take action to promote security, stability and respect for human rights in nigeria.
madam president! the brutal terrorist attacks by boko haram in northern nigeria are destabilizing the entire region. since 2010, thousands of people, including many children, have been killed in attacks on public institutions, schools and churches. in april, over 200 girls were abducted from a government high school. the fate of most of them remains unknown. the bloody attacks by boko haram have created a global humanitarian crisis in the country, with more than 10,000 people fleeing to neighbouring countries. reforms to combat poverty and unemployment while building strong state institutions, including a stable and credible judiciary, will be key to improving the situation. the nigerian authorities must ensure the safety of their citizens and say no to the actions of the islamist militia.
mr president, we wish to add the following phrase: ‘and calls on rebels and mercenaries to do the same and not use civilians as human shields’.
mr president, at the end of the text we wish to add the following words: 'and calls on all sides to do their utmost to protect civilians and to allow for ukrainian humanitarian assistance'.
mr president, at the end, after the word ‘rhetoric’, we wish to add the three words ‘including from russia’, with it then continuing ‘which may further aggravate the conflict’.
mr president, we have an oral amendment to the oral amendment by the greens, proposing that on the third line of this amendment we delete the words ‘as well as the decision of the hungarian government to sign an agreement on nuclear energy with russia’. so, this text as it is proposed by the greens in amendment 5, with a deletion in the third, fourth and fifth lines – deleting ‘as well as the decision of the hungarian government to sign an agreement on nuclear energy with russia’.
we voted against it because it's a one-sided resolution. the resolution unnecessarily irritates his excellency vladimir putin, who has to defend himself very strongly against pressure from russia defend himself against accusations that he is not bringing troops into ukraine to defend his countrymen. we consider such unilateral attacks unjust. it is in the interest of my country to have an independent, strong ukraine, but that doesn't mean we have to insult people we don't like. i agree with mr schaffhauser that this is an american aggression that is looking for a pretext to declare war, because both the military power and the threat of bankruptcy of the united states make it worthwhile to make war now, because during war debts are not paid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine because i believe that it is the duty of the european union to take all possible action to restore the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine and bring the conflict to an end. the annexation of crimea by russia is an unacceptable act and contrary to all norms of international law. europe's response to such an act should be firm and severe economic and financial sanctions. it is also crucial that european leaders stand united in their relations with russia and send a clear and consistent signal that europe will not tolerate any violation of its borders or territorial integrity.
in writing. - we listened to a long debate. there were arguments, rational, emotional, but they were driven by concern for the state of affairs and the dangerous direction of development. i consider the motion for a resolution to be balanced, important and of fundamental importance. it is evidence of the productive application of the community method rather than the international method. i commend the authors of this resolution. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. - i have lent my support to the motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine. from the beginning of this dire situation i have supported ukraine in its situation with russia. i strongly believe that the eu must provide all the help and assistance necessary to protect ukraine from the sphere of influence of russia and mr putin. i feel that as a sovereign state it is the ukrainians who must determine their future, not russia, nor the eu. in recent months we have witnessed the chaos that has engulfed the country and since then there have been some very positive steps forward such as the election of the new president and the recent signing of a trade agreement between ukraine and the eu. the eu must continue to strengthen its relations with ukraine and assist in any way it can with the security of energy sources as this will be a vital part of developing and sustaining an economically sound ukraine, as well as assisting in the desperately needed modernisation of its infrastructure.
in writing. - one in five young europeans is out of work. this extremely high level of youth unemployment is a complex problem that we need to address in a comprehensive way. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on this because i believe it draws attention to the issues that are most important for solving this problem. first, every effort should be made to ensure that the youth guarantee funds support the necessary reforms in the member states. we need to better link education to the labour market to equip young people with the skills that employers are looking for, particularly by promoting good quality work placements and internships. the guarantees are a valuable programme and i agree with the recommendation that member states extend their coverage to people up to the age of 30. second, we need to focus on entrepreneurship. as a result of the crisis, many companies have been liquidated and others have been forced to reduce their workforce. i therefore believe that we need to create a business-friendly environment and rebuild their confidence in the markets, which will translate into new jobs for them. incentives for the creation of new businesses should also be created by removing bureaucratic barriers and providing financial support for start-ups in the form of tax breaks, loans and grants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on youth employment, which proposes a number of solutions to the problem of youth unemployment, which has now reached levels that threaten the development and integrity of europe. the key issue is to use proven solutions from eu countries, such as the dual vocational training system in germany, where youth unemployment is 7.5% compared to an eu average of over 23%. in greater poland, where similar schemes to those in germany are used, unemployment is among the lowest in the country. the development of vocational training, the system of recognition of qualifications and the european qualifications framework is therefore crucial to increase the employment opportunities of young people. the revision of eu education systems, the strengthening of vocational training, as well as programmes to increase mobility international student exchanges, traineeships and internships should lead to a gradual reduction in youth unemployment. the eu should also focus on supporting entrepreneurship, and in particular on creating a friendly environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ 67% of all workers and generate 85% of new jobs. in this context, i support the proposals in the resolution on 'strengthening cooperation between business and the education sector at all levels to better adapt curricula to the needs of the labour market'. i also agree that the eur 6 billion allocated to this purpose is insufficient and should be revised to ensure that the actions undertaken are carried out with the necessary efficiency.
in writing. - employment is not just one of the abstract indicators, it is a telling picture of the state of society and the economy. the approach is fundamentally wrong to try to tackle the problems in the labour market themselves and to leave the question of their causes as secondary. the bottom line is the state of the economy. in order for the economy to develop in a proper, healthy way, it is also necessary to provide education at all levels of education that is adapted to its needs. not only education but also practical skills are important in getting a job. the real help is the development of a system of traineeships and internships. their costs could be co-financed for the companies from national or union funds. the attitude of the unemployed is the most important. in many cases, it is not a lack of qualifications or skills that has predetermined their situation, but a lack of willingness to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead. we live in a time where building entrepreneurial spirit is almost as important as having the knowledge and skills in the field. entrepreneurship should therefore be high on the list of priorities for tackling unemployment, especially youth unemployment. the social assistance system must also be rationalised to avoid providing care for the so-called cunning and lazy. in conclusion, more action is needed from the government and local authorities and other institutions dealing with this problem.
in writing. - the resolution fails to address the fundamental social problem in europe, namely the lack of employment for young people. it is worth recalling that this is a group of 26 million people in europe, including, unfortunately, hundreds of thousands of young people in poland. the resolutions are general, full of 'need' and 'belong' without any emphasis on specifics. these measures should focus on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 75% of all jobs in europe. these enterprises should receive a measurable financial support for the employment of people under the age of 30. in particular, the member states should bear the cost of social benefits for people who are taking up work for the first time. the second area must be the €300 billion infrastructure investment programme in europe, including the transmission network and broadband internet. investments not only create new services, but also provide the basis for new jobs. thirdly, a specific pool of union funds should be set aside to support vocational and technical training at all levels of education and to provide funding for paid traineeships for pupils, students and school leavers who would like to develop in manufacturing and service enterprises. if we do not get out of the realm of the generally correct statements and get into the specifics, youth unemployment will continue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the crime of aggression (2014/2724(rsp)), the reason being that i fully support the rome statute and the ʽkampala amendmentsʼ. it is vital that the european union cooperates with, and continues to support the international criminal court (icc) and plays a role in the establishment of the courtʼs jurisdiction. thus, we as member states must all agree that the crime of aggression defined in the statute as ʽthe planning, preparation, initiation or execution by a personʼ in a leadership position is ʽan act of aggressionʼ. importantly, it contains the threshold requirement that the act of aggression must constitute ʽa manifest violation of the charter of the united nationsʼ. therefore, it is clear that the eu would not, and cannot, accept such acts based on the above definition and must stand united in implementing the amendments as to lend to the continued aforementioned support of the icc as well as the united nations charter on human rights.
- mr president! - i'm not going to do that. i'm not going to let you do this. at the beginning of august, the russian federation imposed an embargo on imports of agricultural and food products from the union in retaliation for our sanctions against russia as a result of russia's role in the crisis and military actions in ukraine. the import embargo is causing considerable losses to our producers. in some sectors, such as fruit, vegetables, cheese and butter, about one third of our union exports have been affected and producers who have not been able to sell their products will suffer losses and some may even go bankrupt. the committee on agriculture considers it necessary to supplement its debate with an oral question to the european commission in the hope of a wider debate with the commissioner in plenary. i'm not going to let you do this. our committee welcomes the action taken by the european commission following the embargo. however, we believe that the financial resources allocated to this purpose are far from sufficient in view of the scale and impact of the embargo on our producers. moreover, as the crisis is primarily political and not the result of market failure or adverse weather conditions, solidarity from other sectors is needed. the parliament's committee on agriculture is convinced that the burden of financial assistance required to provide aid to the farmers affected should not be borne entirely by the budget line for agriculture and that additional resources from other budget lines could be made available. ladies and gentlemen! we also learned that aid measures for the fruit and vegetables sector were suspended last week because the number of applications for aid exceeded the available limit. in countries where farmers are unbundled and buy their products from intermediaries, farmers often declare the entire area of their crops because they do not know how much of their production is exported, including to russia, and how much is used domestically. the majority of farmers, especially small farmers, in the new member states are not yet members of producer groups or trade associations and therefore the level of support should not differentiate between farmers who are affiliated and those who are not. consideration should be given to launching the next phase of the collection of notifications from farmers, which is not inconsistent with the closure and the control and evaluation of applications, as the situation in this respect is dynamic. i'm not going to let you do this. on behalf of the agri committee, we would ask you to provide members of the european parliament with up-to-date information on the actions already taken and planned by the european commission. are you going to complete the first set of actions? amplify them? increase their financial allocation and potentially extend their scope to include additional sectors, such as the meat sector? in particular, do you intend to introduce special compensatory measures for those farms which may be at risk of bankruptcy?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, first of all thank you for agreeing to include this question of the russian import ban today and for accepting the proposal of the committee on agriculture and rural development initiated by the ecr group, and especially the polish delegation, the law and justice party, in this group. six years ago the polish president, lech kaczynski, organised successful political action in tbilisi against the russian invasion of georgia. he said at the time that it was georgia today, ukraine tomorrow, the baltic states the day after tomorrow and then poland. now we have gone one step further: georgia yesterday, ukraine today, the baltic states tomorrow, and poland the day after tomorrow. economic sanctions are the best way to stop the aggressive and imperial policy of russia, but sanctions are costly for both sides. the highest price is paid by farmers, especially those from the eastern part of the eu – from neighbouring countries like finland, the baltic states and my country, poland. we need european solidarity. the cost of the sanctions should be paid by the whole union, not only by farmers and immediate neighbours. commissioner, my question is, although we have a financial reserve for the crisis (we have a serious crisis – not a disturbance, but a crisis), why was the reserve under article 25, regulation (eu) no 1306/2013, not used? why was this reserve not used? we need to use it. why was the proposal of the polish government on this not accepted? please answer. european farmers are waiting for real support and real help. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. yes, mr president! i have to go. i believe that economic sanctions, if consistently applied, can effectively counteract russia's imperialist, aggressive policy. this was the case in the past when ronald reagan's policy of strict economic sanctions led to the collapse of the imperial power of the former soviet union. so today, putin's imperialist policies can be stopped by consistent economic sanctions.
madam president! i come from poland, a region where poor farmers have been particularly affected by the russian embargo, and i will say this: putin is happy because the european commission is unable to take effective action to prevent the russian embargo. the commission should give farmers real support, not create the illusion that it is taking action. there is no doubt that the funds that the commission wanted to allocate to compensate farmers affected by the russian embargo were ridiculously small from the start. last week's decision to stop accepting applications from farmers is outrageous and leaves them without any help. i do not understand, and i ask the commission on behalf of my constituents, why, in the face of one of the most serious crises, it does not use the eu reserve for this purpose. i also call on the commission to take concrete and comprehensive action to combat the crisis which is affecting not only fruit producers but also the dairy sector. in the present situation, it is necessary to abolish the penalties for exceeding milk quotas. i repeat, it is necessary! the sanctions imposed on russia are not effective, and the european union should therefore review its policy in this area and take decisive and joint action.
madam president! the effects of the russian embargo on food from the 28 countries of the european union are increasingly severe for european farmers, and the european commission is acting as if we are dealing with some minor problem. the prices of agricultural products, both vegetable and animal, in my country, poland, have fallen by an average of 30-40% compared with last year as a result of this embargo, and the european commission's response is simply to announce the use of the reserve for market disturbances. the russian embargo has caused a real crisis in most agricultural markets in these countries of the union, which were major exporters to this market, and the commission has decided not to use the crisis reserve under the cap. please explain why, in the context of the worst crisis on agricultural markets in years, the commission did not propose to use this year's crisis reserve created under the cap for compensation payments. has the polish minister of agriculture requested its use? if so, why was this request not taken into account? when will the funds from the market disturbance reserve be released and what was the reason for the release?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the effects of the embargo are very serious for agriculture throughout the european union, but they are particularly severe for the countries of central and eastern europe, especially for farmers in poland. it is clear that the proposed amounts of support are far from sufficient, and i welcome the commissioner's announcement of further action in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would appeal not only to the european commission but also to the member states which have blocked the change, the correction of the fat content, so that in the event of a drastic fall in milk prices, milk producers are not penalized additionally for exceeding production quotas. i also consider the application of compensation of up to half the amount to producers not belonging to producer groups to be a genuine discriminatory practice. of course, it is absolutely right to favour the creation of producer groups, to encourage the creation of producer groups, but it is absolutely wrong to punish in this embargo crisis.
mr president, the commissioner did not answer the question. it was an ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! very often in our countries we are concerned that the activities of the european parliament do not attract enough interest, and we even complain about the low turnout in the elections to the european parliament. and then, last week, three ordinary people from poland came to our headquarters in brussels and did something extraordinary. roman, wojciech, and gregory made a pilgrimage across europe on foot. they set off from knox in ireland, from monte cassino and from głogówka in poland. they brought to the european parliament a message of peace and an icon of st benedict, written and blessed in war-torn ukraine. i think that this message, their love, with which they came to the headquarters of the european institutions, their dedication, their effort should be a model and an inspiration for us all. and i hope that the st. benedict they brought will find a worthy place in our...
mr president, europe was never united. the european states were fighting against each other but we were doing well, we were developing. now, europe under the occupation of the european union, is at a standstill, it has zero growth – and the reason is the european union. the acquis communautaire is the reason why we do not develop. the european union is the exact opposite to europe. the acquis communautaire is the exact opposite of european values. what in europe was called ‘good’, in the european union is called ‘bad’. we can see the reason very clearly. we will see the first caliphate not from isis, we will see the caliphate in the south of france. normality must be returned. the european union is an artificial product and it stops the development of europe. the reason is the european union and the acquis communautaire.
mr. chairman, please! we are facing a conflict that is not only about the sovereignty of ukraine, but also about our security, the security of europe and the stability of the democratic order and the rule of law. ukraine faces a dual challenge: reforming a state with an association agenda and protecting its borders and territorial integrity from russian aggression, invasion and war. ukraine needs to feel real support: otherwise, if we leave it alone with russia, it will bow to its pressure. the ratification and full implementation of the association agreement today is therefore crucial. only consistent political pressure, political isolation of russia, increasing economic sanctions can induce russia to withdraw and cease military activities in ukraine. the first step is a ceasefire, but remember that this was also supposed to mean the withdrawal of foreign troops russian troops from the territory of ukraine. the union states should support ukraine in its activities and military effort, including by providing arms, in its efforts to protect its sovereignty and independence. the concessions made so far by the union have not averted the conflict, but are seen by russia as weakness and an incentive for further aggressive steps and an ongoing invasion. i fear that delaying the entry into force of the trade part will also share the same fate will encourage russia to take further aggressive steps. the russian aggression reinforces the need for our common and solidarity-based foreign policy and for strengthening the military and defence capabilities of the european union and nato. we must not allow narrow, mercantile interests to paralyse our european policy.
mr. chairman, please! two years ago, in a conversation with a high-ranking nato official about the threat to the royal district in kaliningrad, i heard that the threat from russia had evaporated. "has evaporated" was exactly the expression used. i think that in the current situation we can no longer afford to make mistakes, to be naive, to have illusions and to pretend that such threats, not only to ukraine, but to my entire region, to the free world, do not exist. mr farage, please! i think the policy of salami and pretending that if we throw a little bait at russia, it will be satisfied and we can go on to other things, is a fundamental mistake. i'm not going to let you do this. i must say that i was sorry to hear your affirmation of the eurasian union. this is vladimir putin's position and we should be careful at this moment what signals and gestures we are sending to the russian side. we need to put in place very consistent diplomatic sanctions. i welcome today's simultaneous and joint ratification, but i believe that the association agreement in its trade part should enter into force immediately.
mr president, to deal with anybody, one must understand him. let us try to understand russia. first, the russian federation is the legal successor of the soviet union. from their point of view, they see constant aggression from nato, which has swallowed the german democratic republic, then the comecon countries, then the baltic states, and now the north atlantic treaty organisation is trying to subdue ukraine and perhaps install its missiles there. they are defending themselves against a strong aggressive power. second, russians remember that a marxist anti-american government was installed in grenada in 1983, and that ronald reagan then sent in troops and ousted the elected government. there was no general outcry of indignation from democrats. third, russians are good chess players. they would know that nato does not want ukraine. thus nato has sent the strongest signal possible to his excellency vladimir putin that he can do whatever he wants with ukraine. the european union does not have any troops. we can only tease the bear. the bear lies at the border of ukraine – not of poland or france. we can do this in safety, but please think of the ukrainians. we shall vote against.
i am also polish.
mr. chairman, please! that was a very interesting debate. there have been many interesting comments, but what is often forgotten is that this conflict has been going on for many, many months. here we have heard the calls to action - in the eyes of many europeans, the actions that are being taken by the european parliament and other eu institutions are inconsistent, weak, reactive, the initiative is russia's, in a sense, you can say that putin is winning this conflict. i am afraid that next year we will be in a much more difficult situation and we will debate in a similar way, we will hear calls for more effective action again and maybe then it will no longer be about crimea and not about eastern ukraine, but about kiev. i think that we as the european parliament should consider what we can do a step ahead, what stronger action we can take to prevent this dark scenario from coming true. he was also involved in the illegal 'separatist' activities of the 'donetsk people's republic'.
draft resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 september 2014 at 12.00 hours. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
rapporteur. - mr president, i am hereby submitting to the european parliament the legislative proposal to ratify – to give consent to – the association agreement between the european union and the ukraine, ten years after the orange revolution, which deceived so many hopes, one year after the failure in vilnius to sign the association agreement and 10 months after the beginning of the heroic and victorious euromaidan, which was a sign of the wish and will of the ukrainian nation to make its european choice. the european choice of ukraine, through this ratification today, will be institutionalised in the form of an association agreement and will in future bind the european union and the ukraine together. during the past 10 months, ukrainian citizens proved to be committed to european values and willing to fight for the country’s democratic development. ukrainian society has paid the highest price for their european aspirations, grieving the deaths of numerous people, suffering territorial occupation by russia and experiencing a deteriorating economic situation. the european union was extending assistance to the ukrainian state. from the eu side the eu has assisted ukraine economically and politically and with this ratification it gives ukraine the strongest sign of support. economic support on the union’s side is substantial, with a financial package amounting to up to eur 11 billion, and it also covers political support, which is embodied in the creation of the support group for ukraine in the european commission, the organisation of the international donors conference and efforts towards establishment of the technical assistance plan in a number of areas, from constitutional to judicial and administrative reform. this ratification is a milestone in ukraine-eu relations. the ratification of the association agreement follows the signing, in two sequences in march and june, of this agreement and it is such a milestone in spite of the regrettable proposal on delayed implementation of the agreement which was recently discussed. the ratification of the association agreement is a success for both ukraine and the european union. today’s vote on ratification, which will happen at 12 noon simultaneously in two european cities, kiev and strasbourg – the capital of europe and the capital of ukraine – and by two democratically elected parliaments, both chambers seeing each other on the big screens, by the verkhovna rada of ukraine and the european parliament, the highest legislative directly elected and democratic body of the european union. it is a strong symbolic message to ukrainian society and the proof of sharing the common european values and destiny. this gesture is even more necessary today than it seemed to be some time ago, in the face of the increasing pressure, invasion and warfare directed against ukraine by russia. we need to restore the credibility of this relationship in the face of external threats. an association agreement is not the definitive goal of ukrainian-european union relations. ukraine and the european union have a common future in front of them and this future must be protected from external russian pressure, to become a reality. what can be done? the only way for the union to effectively stop those threats and stop russia questioning this relationship is to introduce increasingly heavy sanctions, until the cost for russia becomes too high for it to sustain its policies. we need to enhance and accelerate financial and economic assistance to ukraine and contribute to increasing the military capabilities of ukraine. ukraine should be assisted in protecting its territorial integrity and in introducing the agreed necessary but difficult reforms at the same time and in parallel. the association agreement to be ratified today will be protected from any changes which might be requested by any third counry. we start and embark on the new european future for ukraine. ukraine: welcome to this new relationship with the european union.
rapporteur. - mr president, i am certain that in a few minutes this house will, with a great majority, ratify the association agreement between the european union and ukraine, thus sending a strong signal of support and solidarity. the association agreement can provisionally enter into force immediately after reciprocal notification by both sides of the ratification and it will mean work in secret by commissioner de gucht as to how to make it half enter into force – politically but not economically. after ratification the association agreement – and this is the formal statement of the rapporteur and of the forthcoming resolution – cannot be changed by one word or one comma. we have to do all we can in order to prevent it being stopped or derailed. our moscow sources say that a letter demanding changes to the text has already been sent to commissioner de gucht from russia. i believe that with our ratification we are completely closing the gate to such possibilities and that we are acting in accordance with all the elements of our resolution, which is to be put to the vote on thursday, that demand further, more audacious, extended and enhanced action by the european union to assist ukraine in its economic and political process and also in the defence of its territorial integrity and, ultimately, of the dignity of the ukrainian nation.
in writing. - the eu-ukraine association agreement adopted by the ep is a support for ukraine's independence and unity. the agreement covers both political and economic aspects of cooperation. policy support will cover areas such as energy and transport. the agreement with ukraine also includes a commitment to a series of reforms and to respect for the principles of democracy and human rights. the agreement also introduces the principle of free trade, which will allow for a deeper integration of the ukrainian market with the eu market. in the absence of an effective solution to the russian-ukrainian conflict, ukraine's integration into the eu offers a chance to protect against further russian expansion. the eu's own history shows the importance of broad economic cooperation for peace. there is no doubt that the eu and ukraine have a common interest in the stability of the eu's eastern border. despite strong support from meps in a vote of 535 to 535, the agreement has yet to be ratified by 28 member states. only four countries have ratified it so far.
in writing. - i voted to accept the association agreement with ukraine. the accelerated ratification of this agreement is undoubtedly a clear signal that the european union stands by ukraine and supports it in its pro-european and independence aspirations. unfortunately, ukraine's european choice comes at the highest price anyone can pay. i think that in this situation it is europe's duty to do everything possible to mitigate the terrible consequences that this country is suffering. the association agreement and the free trade area agreement are important examples of this, but it should be remembered that, alongside macroeconomic support, humanitarian aid is the most urgent issue at this time. the recent increase by the commission of eur 2.5 million in this aid is undoubtedly very important, but the needs remain enormous.
in writing. - i supported the ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement because it is an important step towards ukraine's rapprochement with the european union. it is the culmination of months of turbulent events in ukraine. my conviction was strengthened by president poroshenko's statement that the ukrainian government will develop an economic development plan, and he will personally start the fight against corruption. i am aware of the complexity of the situation in ukraine. a great deal of diplomacy is needed, including on the russia-eu line. the ratification act alone does not solve the problem.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, mr president! ukraine is a geopolitical partner of the european union. it is the second largest european country after russia, with great wealth and a large market. 25 years ago, most european countries knew nothing about ukraine, and now almost all european media are focused on the region, highlighting its strategic importance for the eu economy. we also see how strong ukrainian civil society is growing, how much has changed in the last few years. we as europeans should support the systemic transformation of our neighbours, because only citizens who are aware of their goals are able to change reality and thus reform their country. i therefore voted in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement.
madam president! the problem we are talking about - the problem of non-payment - is the universal problem of the european budget. we talk today about the lack of research and development, but a few months ago we talked about the humanitarian crisis that hundreds of people in syrian refugee camps depend on for their survival. in no other area is there a greater gap between declarations and possibilities, between promises and available resources, than in research and development (where innovation is concerned). i would like to say to all the critics that at national level as well as at european level, budgets are now deficit management, but what makes the european budget different is that the annual tasks, the annual ambitions can be quantified, they can be expressed in numbers, which are called 'commitments'. if there is no payment to cover these commitments, which are agreed jointly by the countries and parliament, the vacuum of these declarations is revealed, precisely because of this, more sharply than at national level. the reasons for the current state of affairs are well known and diagnosed: under-payments during the crisis, when more than 20 countries were in the excessive deficit procedure, with the accumulation of bills at the end of the 2007-2013 programming period. it's obvious. low payment ceilings in 2014/2015 and at the same time new promises, called frontloading, just about the scope of chapter 1. the effect is known, it's also diagnosed. there's no way out of this crisis with a blame game. the way out is an amending budget for this year, solid budgeting for 2015, so i believe that the italian presidency and the next commissioners responsible for research and development will have their hands full. (the speaker agreed to answer two questions put by the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. unfortunately, i have to confirm mr böge's concerns: the jointly agreed front loading, which means payments for 2014-2015 (we estimate it at almost €3 billion), when compared with the cuts made by the council, has nothing to do with the jointly agreed promises for youth employment, horizon 2020, erasmusplus and cosme. this is in stark contrast to the promises made.
blue-card answer. – i am not sure whether this question is addressed to me. however, i can assure you that what we are talking about and what is missing is ‘eligible bills’, audited bills coming from 28 countries. these figures are not invented by the commission. these are deliveries from 28 countries for accomplished projects and here it is not only a question of economies affecting beneficiaries, it is a question of the credibility of the european institutions.
madam president! yesterday and the day before yesterday, we spent a great deal of time in the european parliament debating the question of subsidies for agricultural products such as peppers and mandarins, but today it is not potatoes that are winning the global economic war, but modern technology. the strength of the west today is its modern economy, its innovation and its competitiveness. therefore, securing the necessary funding for research and science and transferring knowledge to industry should be a necessary priority for the european union. the budget for horizon 2020 seems satisfactory, but we are now discussing reductions for next year and for the whole of 2020. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of the former soviet union. the knowledge-based economy is the only way for the eu to compete effectively with the united states, japan, south korea and the rest of the world. so again, in the 21st century, it's not agriculture that's building competitive advantage, it's research, science and industry. the savings should be sought in the administration and bureaucracy, by reducing regulation and eliminating eu overregulation. there are billions of euros to be recovered for development. (the speaker agreed to answer the question put by the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. there is no doubt that we should look at the european union budget as a whole, horizontally, and look for savings in each of the funds, but with clear and unambiguous priorities. i think that scientific research is clearly a priority over tangerines.
madam president! mr zanetti, secretary of state, has just assured us on behalf of the council of the council's great sensitivity to the problems of research and development. well, we don't expect sensitivity, we expect rationality backed by credibility and soundness. credibility will mean convergence of declarations and decisions, it will mean decisions that confirm that we care about the pillars of the knowledge-based economy, which are research and development. but soundness will mean that we will not allow structural, cumulative arrears which seriously undermine the trust of a large group of opinion-forming scientists and highly creative entrepreneurs in us; soundness will also mean that we will not artificially delay the completion of the work. parliament cannot pass a decision... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! for many years we have been saying that the union is not innovative enough, that it is losing global competition not only to the united states but to the emerging economies. the lisbon strategy, which was supposed to make the european union the most innovative economy in the world, has failed miserably. we didn't learn anything from this failure. the same fate awaits strategy 2020 as there is no political will on the part of the member states to implement it. the best example is horizon 2020. the european union's biggest success programmes included in this programme horizon 2020 after the budget cuts decision was the first to be identified for funding cuts. the new european commission should concentrate its efforts on creating a stable legal and financial basis to strengthen the particular innovative nature of our european economy.
in writing. horizon 2020 was created with the vision of boosting growth and creating jobs. it was built with the future in mind. the cuts will contribute to the fact that we will not be able to fully achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 document or the priorities of the horizon 2020 programme. a 10 percent cut in research funding will prevent hundreds of new projects from being carried out by thousands of scientists. we cannot allow ourselves to be in a situation where there are delays in the disbursement of funds or we are unable to pay the commitments that have been made - this undermines the credibility of the programme, the commission and the european union as a whole. remember, this is a 2014-2020 program, so it's just getting started and you have to give it a chance. i believe that the almost €80 billion planned for this programme is a good investment, and without further substantial investment in research, development, science and innovation, we will not be able to realise the potential that europeans have.
mr. chairman, please! i want to say that i very much regret that in this capacity, the commissioner and i are meeting here for the last time. if it's any consolation, the successor to the commissioner is a very prominent figure, mrs. elizabeth bieńkowska. i am convinced that we will have as constructive and as good a cooperation with it as we have had with you, commissioner. thank you for all the work and all the successes you've been talking about. i am grateful for the successes we have achieved together to make the european market work better and better, but also for your commitment to the dialogue with european society that you have always maintained, for your frequent trips to different countries, for your participation in conferences and meetings in many european countries, in different places, including my home town of krakow twice. we all agree here that the digital single market is a huge opportunity for the whole of the european union and that today we need a very ambitious, horizontal approach from the european commission. i agree with my colleagues that we cannot accept or accept these barriers which keep dividing our common market into 28 different areas. we cannot create legislation for consumer protection that is in opposition to the legislation we create for business. we can't divide the laws that we create into the right to virtual reality and the right to physical reality. we need a more ambitious approach from the european commission to finally get rid of these extra roaming costs and create a real european telecoms market. we need more ambitious measures to make online shopping easier - i am thinking here of postal services, particularly cross-border ones. and the last point: yes, we need to introduce existing regulations, and maybe also introduce new regulations, so that our internet is not completely dominated by a global internet, usually non-european. our european companies must be strong in the global race, and their user, the european user, must be safe.
mr. chairman, please! the digital single market can be the foundation of the european union's socio-economic development. the internet alone is now responsible for 20% of economic growth and about 25% of job growth. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take action in the event of a dispute. one challenge is to counter the legal fragmentation of this area in national laws, and another is the lack of good cross-border legislation and the lack of websites available in multiple languages. attention should also be paid to dispute resolution methods, especially for online purchases in cross-border cases, as this is crucial for the level of trust in online purchases. the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the use of e-learning in the european union. it is about e-readyness to use computer and information technologies, both in the economy and in communication with public administration. the cooperation between private investors and private operators and the administrations of the governments of the member states is also an important issue. this involves a cost-effective combination of market forces and public interest. it is an excellent space for the development of public-private partnerships in all the member states of the european union. i therefore appeal also as the creator of the public-private partnership act in poland to promote and support ppps in the member states of the european union. another major challenge for the community is to integrate smes into the digital revolution, for example through e-commerce. this is mainly due to the breaking down of digital barriers between member states. these are just some of the tasks that we have to do.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the benefits of a digital single market are clear, but europe is still failing to make the digital leap to a digital single market. what does it take? first, a holistic approach, so that we can approach digital issues, whether they're education, telecommunications or health, in the same way. second, to break the egoism of the 28 countries, because that egoism is killing the possibility of developing a digital single market. third, investments are being made to ensure that high-speed internet access does not lead to the situation we have today: with a 30-second delay, almost a minute, we heard our friends in kiev. it's a weakness of the internet speed. these investments obviously require market consolidation, breaking down fragmentation, and also harmonization as we share the future spectrum. fourth, we need to harmonize standards and services, including privacy, so that not 28 regimes, but one legal regime, will decide on this digital leap. and fifth, big data is a huge opportunity for the economy, the development of big data is likely to add 280 billion euros to european gdp in the next few years. but for large data sets to grow well, you need to get three things in order. first, adopt privacy and data protection measures. they build trust and they will also allow small businesses to grow across the european continent. secondly, we need to reconcile this growth in privacy and big data with the opening up, reuse and use of data, so that the barriers that still sometimes exist today in overprotection, overcopyright, do not limit the development, the flow of various goods, products and data. and third, safety. in a modern way... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! the climate policy objectives in the light of the upcoming climate summit should raise doubts among individual member states and citizens of the european union. for years, the eu institutions' position has been rejected by the world's largest economies, most notably china and the united states. this position should be reviewed in the light of the need to guarantee the energy security of the european union and to ensure the competitiveness of the union's economies. the union's reckless policy of eliminating the coal industry is self-defeating and has the direct effect of making europe completely dependent on concentrated supplies from the east. the direct effect of the decarbonisation of the union economies is to increase unemployment rates, which has serious social consequences. i therefore call on the commission and the council and its president to break with the current climate policy which is ruining the economies of many countries in the european union.
madam president! we've been talking about the alarming numbers of youth unemployment for years, and nothing's changed. it is becoming increasingly clear that we are facing a lost generation, dominated by those without sufficient work experience and without the prospect of a decent retirement. the present youth unemployment will in future deepen the budgetary problems of the member states and will make it impossible for us to maintain the new european social model. it is surprising that the government is so resistant or negligent in using the instruments provided by the european youth initiative. only 11 beneficiary countries have so far prepared the operational programmes necessary to use the available funds, and only two have used them. so it's very clear that the problem is not low budgets, but the inertia of most countries. so first of all, we should discuss the causes of the current stagnation. we can criticize individual governments for their disregard for this program, but it will not improve the situation of young people. it will be more effective to find ways to remove existing bottlenecks and to motivate countries to reach for the funds available, especially since the current €10 billion is available under the initiative today in 2014 and 2015, rather than as is the case with other multiannual programmes. yesterday's debate on limiting funding to the best of the best of horizon 2020 and today's debate on the member states' complete ignorance of the european youth initiative, which is already 100% funded today, is a testament to the bad decisions we make here in the european parliament, often under pressure from member states, which then ignore those decisions. commissioner, thank you very much to you and your team for five years of cooperation.
in writing in my statement on youth employment in july this year, i pointed out that the european parliament, in taking the right approach to the pressing issue of youth unemployment, should do so in the broader social and economic context of the issue, which goes far beyond ad hoc solutions. in its resolution (2014/2713 (rsp)) adopted at that time, parliament shared this view, stating that europe needed to be re-industrialized in a way that would favour policies aimed at growth and thus job creation. businesses will employ more young people when the economic situation is favourable to growth. i believe that these issues need to be given due weight in the current debate on the progress made by the member states of the european union in implementing the european youth initiative launched in january this year. when criticizing national governments for their slow progress in implementing this initiative, one must ask oneself how much of this is the result of incompetence or even ill will, and how much is the result of europe's poor economic situation. to improve it, the emphasis should be on progress in reindustrialising europe and on revising the climate and energy package. it is based on faulty scientific premises, has a negative impact on the eu's economic situation and stimulates job losses, especially in countries with a high potential for energy and heavy industry.
in writing. the youth guarantee was conceived as a structural reform that requires changes in the employment policies of the member states. this was recently emphasised by commissioner andor. i agree with that statement. however, the review of the pilot projects on guarantees has shown that member states are implementing the scheme in different ways. fortunately, among the 18 projects, there are some good and worthy projects that are already showing positive results - those that are trying to make such a profound and lasting change. i believe that the focus of the next steps should be on such in-depth reforms and improvements to existing instruments. instead of creating new cooperation platforms or web portals, member states should transform their public employment services. the example of the irish pilot project shows that this can have very good results. in addition, i consider it important to involve the employer's guarantee in the implementation process. incentives, both financial and in the form of simplified regulations, should be introduced for them to create new jobs.
in writing. youth unemployment is one of the most serious social and economic problems in the union. unemployment results in poverty for many families, in poorer educational prospects for this and the next generation, in low pensions in the future. to prevent the effects of mass youth unemployment, the tools and funds that the eu has set aside for this purpose need to be used effectively and efficiently. unfortunately, very few member states are using the instruments focused on the european youth employment initiative; implementation of the youth guarantee is very slow. the causes of this inertia should be urgently investigated. there may be formal barriers which can be removed by the parliament or the european commission. this is a very urgent task, as the financial resources to fight unemployment are in the billions of euros and every day of delay in taking the necessary action makes the situation worse and increases the risk of the dramatic cumulative effects of high unemployment among young europeans. the necessary measures include not only the creation of new jobs but also, perhaps primarily, the adaptation of the qualifications of the unemployed to the vacancies already on the market. employers are searching for thousands of workers, but they're not finding any, and at the same time, an army of unemployed people are searching for jobs, but they're not finding any. the most urgent objective of the educational activities undertaken in the framework of the programmes for the young unemployed is to achieve compatibility between the needs of employers and the qualifications of potential employees.
in writing. - the globalisation adjustment fund plays an important role as a community support instrument for countries and regions which, by using these funds, meet their own important needs. i am pleased that there was no problem in obtaining a qualified majority, which is a testament to the purpose of this fund and its use. i share the views and assessments expressed by the rapporteur, mrs ní riada. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her good work, because this technical assistance report makes it possible to approve the other five reports on specific applications.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. socialism is a system that heroically fights the problems it creates. the fight against the effects of globalization is a clinical example of this. the nature of the economy is that efficient businesses thrive by producing an abundance of good, cheap products, while inefficient businesses fail by causing no loss to anyone. taking money from those who can produce a lot, well and cheaply is already holding back development and prosperity. the allocation of this money to cover losses to those who should have gone bankrupt is the cause of further losses. and the greatest misfortune of europe is the belief that the course is right. let's give up this naive belief.
mr. chairman, please! before the members of the european parliament took the floor, the question of the association agreement was put to a vote in the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament and was adopted by an overwhelming majority. there was no communication with the other parliaments at the time, so it was the committee's decision.
mr president, it is an extremely important moment normally when it comes to adopting international and even multilateral agreements. minutes are very important proof. when they are voted on in an almost empty chamber, this may be seen as an additional point for getting rid of this agreement later. contrary to what my colleague said, i think that this procedure may spoil our legislative procedure.
mr. chairman, please! west africa is experiencing the largest ebola outbreak in history. by september 7, there were approximately 4,500 cases of infection, including 2,300 deaths. many organizations have provided financial and medical support to help prevent the spread of the epidemic. also, 160 medical personnel lost their lives fighting the epidemic. the ebola outbreak in different countries, inadequate precautions, dangerous cultural and burial practices, lack of knowledge, and the lack of detection and treatment of ebola have all made it difficult to control the disease. the director general of the world health organization has declared the epidemic to be international. let's not forget that this epidemic could affect all of us. the european union has a particular responsibility and responsibility to support the african side and to strengthen humanitarian aid and to monitor and plan for the prevention of future epidemics. the european parliament's resolution is very important. i support the transfer of an additional eur 140 million from the european union and the member states. ebola outbreaks in central africa between 2000 and 2003 resulted in an 85-percent mortality rate, but the disease was eventually contained. this shows that only coordinated action by the european commission, the un and the african side is crucial in the fight against the epidemic.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. september 8 ended the long, evil, divisive, powerless rule of prime minister nuri al-maliki. governments that have undoubtedly contributed to the rise and prominence of the so-called islamic state, a brutal terrorist organization that has caused unprecedented suffering to minorities in iraq and syria: the yazidi community, the assyrian christian community, the chaldean community, other communities. it has caused the death of countless citizens of both countries and forced them to flee, seeking refuge in other countries. the appointment of the government of haidar al-abadi is a hope, it gives hope, and there is no doubt that the free world, the european union, should do everything to help stabilize, do everything to make this government a unifying one, including the kurdish community and kurdish politicians, ensuring the stability and unity of the country. less than a week later, an international conference was held, co-chaired by president hollande. this conference is certainly a hope, but it was notable for the relatively small number of high-level representatives from my region, central and eastern europe. but there was minister lavrov, representing the same country that just a few days ago threatened my country with a nuclear attack. i hope that the union will maintain unity and balance in its assessment of all threats and will not allow concessions to russia in return for its participation in the anti-terrorist coalition. today is a difficult day. it's september 17th. it's the anniversary of bad pacts. i would like this time of our mobilization for iraq, for iraq and i hope that this will be for all the countries of the european union to clearly cross out the bad... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! it is our duty to defend the christians who are being killed and all the people who are dying because of religious hatred. but as politicians, we should also ask why this is happening, because the european union has supported (it is true) the people who are now politically responsible for this. prime minister maliki, who is responsible for not being able to bring order there, is in a sense, in a political sense, responsible for what is happening right now in iraq and syria, and responsible for the deaths of thousands of people who are dying there. it's not just christians, but also iranian refugees who are also discriminated against. there are many cases like this. nevertheless, i would like to end by emphasizing very strongly the need to defend christians. it is our duty as europeans, as representatives of countries with a christian tradition.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! in our policy towards iraq and syria, we have to consider two basic facts. the first is that christians in this region, in all countries, are a minority, they are the only religious group that is a minority in all the countries where they live. so in practice, they can count only on our help, only on the interest of christendom. and the second element is that the priority of all the actions we take, whatever their nature, must always be the humanitarian protection of vulnerable communities and in particular of christian communities, who can only count on us. this sign is not a sympathetic smile, it is the letter n, which marks the houses of those who are destined to be expelled or exterminated. to the perpetrators, it's a sign of the victim, but to all of us, it's a cry for help.
mr. chairman, please! in the draft resolution tabled by the group of european conservatives and reformists on the situation in iraq and syria, we have already drawn attention once again to the persecution, that is to say the abduction and killing of christians in those countries. the situation of christians has deteriorated greatly since islamic terrorists have been building their state in the region. the united states is opposing this militarily and the european union should coordinate with the united states. in many draft resolutions of the european parliament, christians are mentioned as one of the exterminated religious groups, and it should be recalled that they are the most persecuted group in the world and this should be reflected in the joint resolution of our parliament.
well, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that unfortunately our western world has come to realize rather late that the jihadists in iraq and syria today are and will increasingly be an absolute and deadly threat. it turns out that they are extremely ruthless towards various minorities, and i'm thinking here primarily of ethnic and religious minorities. but the truth is that there is no long-term solution to this problem through military action alone. what is needed here is strong and real support for local authorities. it's easier in iraq, because we have a more stable government there today, but it's much more difficult in syria. i think there's a serious problem here, whether we should support the fight against both this government and the jihadists at the same time. never has a fight on two fronts at the same time worked.
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the crises in ukraine and the middle east, which we discussed a few minutes ago, the situation in libya has worsened and worsened again in july and august. libya, a country on the southern shore of the mediterranean, has been unable to end hostilities in its major cities, with a government in crisis struggling to carry out its basic functions. as you know, parliament meets in tobruk, 1,200 kilometres from the capital, while a parallel government and parliament are in place in tripoli. the intervention of third countries in support of the two opposing camps aggravates the current division. the situation has reached the point where a growing number of libyans are talking about a plausible risk of civil war. as stated in the conclusions of the european council of 30 august, the european union expresses growing concern at the ongoing violation of human rights and the humanitarian situation in the areas affected by the fighting, such as benghazi and the wershefana area. the alleged attacks on the civilian population and civilian objects are unacceptable and must cease immediately. the impact on regional security, including europe's, is becoming increasingly tangible. the attacks in algeria and egypt, whose perpetrators are from libyan territory, as well as the unprecedented number of irregular migrants landing on the italian and maltese coasts, give a measure of the gravity of the situation. terrorism, human trafficking and the proliferation of weapons are on the rise in a context of growing lawlessness. the situation is dramatic. and yet the vast majority of libyans want an end to violence and a peaceful resolution of conflicts. families mourn their dead, they don't want the fighting to continue. a growing number of groups, including prominent tribes in the south, are rejecting a choice of sides and calling for an easing of tensions. the situation in libya is not irreversible, but time is running out. the international community has mobilized in support of a peaceful solution to the crisis. today in madrid a ministerial conference is being held where libya's neighbouring countries in europe and africa are discussing the issues at stake and the possibility of concerted action. next week, secretary of state kerry and un secretary general ban ki-moon will host a meeting on libya on the sidelines of the un general assembly. the eu strongly supports the efforts of the un support mission in libya, led by bernardino león, to achieve an immediate ceasefire and bring the parties to the negotiating table to resume the political process. united nations security council resolution 2174, adopted on 27 august, expanded the scope of international sanctions on libya to include those who work against peace, threaten the stability or security of libya, or otherwise undermine the success of the political transition. the eu considers that the legitimacy of the house of representatives is derived from the elections last june. at the same time, we stress the need for the house of representatives to involve all parties in order to achieve an inclusive agreement. unfortunately, some of the messages and decisions made by the house of representatives itself in recent weeks may have exacerbated the directions rather than bridging them. today, some members of this parliament are boycotting its work. we have a duty to convince all the members of parliament to reach an agreement so that it can play its full part. we therefore strongly emphasise the need to create an inclusive government, representing all libyans who are willing to accept the rule of law and the democratic process, regardless of their affiliation. an inclusive national dialogue should be organised as soon as the situation allows. we express our appreciation for the work of the constituent assembly in drafting the constitution. we hope that the spirit of consensus and constructive dialogue prevailing in that meeting will reach the entire libyan population. we fully understand the concerns of libya's neighbours. it is important to note the hospitality that tunisia has offered to hundreds of thousands of libyan refugees. it is essential that the neighbours and other countries in the region support mediation efforts aimed at an immediate cessation of hostilities and a political settlement. it is also essential that the parties concerned at regional level refrain from actions that could exacerbate the current divisions and undermine libya's democratic transition. un security council resolution 2174 should also make the arms embargo more effective.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, reminded us today of the anniversary of the outbreak of the second world war and of the tragic consequences of the implementation of destructive ideologies. these words should also serve as a warning in the context of the current serious military tensions in both the eastern and southern neighbourhoods of the union. one such hotbed is libya. the violence and aggression that we see there could become the fuel of a civil war, as we note in our draft resolution. this war could spread quickly. in addition to providing financial and humanitarian aid, the european union, as well as the arab league and the african union, needs to be more involved in high-level international mediation to resolve the conflict.
mr. chairman, please! as a man who is intimidated, i will not talk about niger bordering libya, or, god forbid, nigeria, i will talk about parts of libya. mr. chairman, please! the american policy of building democracy, especially in the arab countries, has ended in disaster. in egypt, in afghanistan, in iraq, in syria, in libya -- everywhere we have hundreds of thousands and millions of dead bodies. but in monarchies, there's peace and people aren't murdered. now, in libya, civil war is virtually inevitable, but in the eastern part of libya, in the former greek colony of cyrenaica, there is the possibility of an emirate. he is a respected descendant of the as-sanusi family and of course we don't have the military to put him there, whereas the arabs think we have to support democracy, they are afraid of making an emirate. if we gave the word that we are not so attached to democracy and could save hundreds of thousands of people by establishing an emirate there, that would be a very beneficial action.
mr. chairman, please! i remember the arab spring well. we welcomed and supported her with pleasure. but what have we got instead of democracy and social justice? chaos, terrorism, murder, expulsion for political reasons, for reasons of nationality or religion. we have millions of refugees, refugees from libya, syria, iraq. we're talking mostly about political action here. i would like to see us provide humanitarian aid along with these activities as winter approaches, including tents, blankets, warm clothing, food, medicine. let's note that we have some food surpluses from the russian embargo. maybe it's some kind of method of cultivation. children and education let's take a few thousand students from these displaced camps to the european union, let's give them a chance to get an education. let them go back to their countries educated, let them rebuild their countries. i think the benefit would be obvious.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, on behalf of the high representative, catherine ashton, i am honoured to address you today on the occasion of the presentation of the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy. as you know, the annual report outlines the work done by the european union on human rights and democracy across the whole range of our external relations during the past year. it tells the story of our enduring efforts to defend and promote human rights and to support democracy around the world. the european union has put human rights at the very centre of its external action and is undoubtedly one of the main international actors in the field. one of the reasons for this is the leading role played by the european parliament in influencing and shaping our democracy and human rights policy. i would like to praise the work of all those honourable members who have played and are playing a crucial role in promoting human rights and reporting violations and abuses, in particular those who are active in the subcommittee on human rights. last december we had the opportunity for a broad debate in plenary on the excellent report on human rights and democracy in the world drafted by mr kukan. many of the topics and concerns raised in the document are taken up in our annual report. this proves that in the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy we stand united. since the adoption of the human rights package in june 2012, our annual reports give us an opportunity to assess our capacity to implement the ambitious 2012 action plan on human rights and democracy. we are happy to see that parliament has appreciated this effort to provide transparency and accountability. allow me a few words on the strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy. the adoption of this package was a landmark decision. it provided us with a clear set of principles and objectives to guide our work in promoting human rights in the world. thanks to these comprehensive documents, the eu’s delivery has become more tangible and more measurable. it has also made our endeavours part of a collective effort involving all eu institutions and member states alike. i am pleased to say that, in two years, we have accomplished most of the nearly 100 actions set out, and we are working on completing the remaining ones. at a time when democratic values are increasingly being challenged in many parts of the world, the high representative and her services, including eu delegations, have addressed human rights and democracy as a matter of priority. those who are oppressed around the world, as well as civil society representatives and international partners, look up to the european union and count on our contribution. the eu has not feared to go beyond traditional diplomacy and to express its concerns openly. baroness ashton did just that over the developments in russia in relation to civil society. she spoke out on the harassment of civil society in latin america and sub-saharan africa. she called for the release of political prisoners in bahrain while attending the eu and gulf cooperation council ministerial meeting. in myanmar she joined aung san suu kyi in attending a special civil society forum with more than 60 participants from all parts of the country. civil society representatives were similarly involved in the eu-myanmar/burma task force and participated actively in its political session. the role of stavros lambrinidis as the eu’s special representative for human rights has also been crucial. throughout these past two years he has shown incredible stamina and has spared no efforts in designing and projecting our human rights policy across the world and in advancing the universality of human rights. he has been, and is constantly, engaging with all our strategic partners and has consistently addressed human rights challenges with key countries in democratic transition. he has been, and still is, tirelessly reaching out to ngos and civil society organisations. stavros has proved to be the eu’s solid and loud voice on human rights. our eu annual report sets out a number of our key achievements. we have moved forward with our human rights country strategies: we have now concluded more than 150 strategies, covering the globe and providing tailor-made approaches and strategic objectives for each individual country. this has been an important step in empowering our eu delegations in their new post-lisbon role. in addition, we have established human rights focal points in all eu delegations and common security and defence policy missions and operations. we have stepped up efforts to train our staff on human rights and democracy issues, both in the delegations and at headquarters. every year the union holds human rights dialogues and consultations with more than 30 partner countries and regional groupings. in 2013, human rights dialogues with south africa and burma/myanmar and consultations with the republic of korea were held for the first time. we have extended our toolkit by adopting new eu human rights guidelines. in 2013 we adopted guidelines to promote and protect the enjoyment of all human rights by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intra-sex persons, as well as guidelines on freedom of expression freedom of belief, following the adoption by this house of a detailed recommendation on the topic. we have promptly condemned cases of religious hatred, intolerance and violence in the world: in egypt, nigeria, iran, libya, mali, pakistan and tunisia and, more notably, following the tragic developments unfolding in iraq and syria. at the same time, all our instruments – political dialogues, démarches, technical assistance and support for ngos – are used to address more systematic issues related to freedom of religion or belief in a bilateral context. conscious of the increased incidence of intimidation and harassment of journalists and of restrictions on media freedom, we adopted a few months ago the first ever guidelines on freedom of expression online and offline, in consultation with civil society and under the inspiration of parliament’s report on the freedom of press and media in the world. at the same time, the eu has loudly condemned attacks on journalists and bloggers, and has participated in all international efforts to promote and protect freedom of expression. the eu has used all its available tools of diplomacy and cooperation and assistance to work towards the abolition of the death penalty. we have issued hundreds of statements and carried out hundreds of démarches to condemn the use of capital punishment wherever and whenever it occurs. thanks to our constant efforts and lobbying, the un general assembly 67th session adopted a resolution on a moratorium on executions, with unprecedented support. thanks to our efforts, no european drugs are exported to states that use lethal injections to execute. as we approach the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the un convention against torture, the eu has stepped up its efforts to address this unacceptable practice, which still exists in so many countries around the world. the eu has shown an equally active commitment to combating discrimination, especially discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. we have never refrained from stating our belief that all people are created equal and that no cultural, societal or religious traditions can be invoked to justify any form of discrimination. gender has always been a top priority. the eu has taken an active stance on the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls. thanks to our outreach, we were able to contribute to the successful adoption of conclusions at the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women. our strong engagement has also yielded results in the implementation of un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. the protection and the promotion of children’s rights and the issue of children and armed conflict have been central to the eu human rights policy and funding instruments. the eu is proud to support the campaign, children, not soldiers, jointly initiated in 2014 by the un special representative for children and armed conflict and unicef, aiming to end and prevent the recruitment and use of children in conflict by 2016. supporting civil society has remained at the heart of our objectives. we continue to focus on protecting ngos and human rights defenders and expanding the space in which they operate. we have called on numerous governments to make sure that new legislation is adopted and implemented in line with international standards. human rights defenders play an important role at local, national, regional and international levels, and the promotion of human rights cannot exist without them. this year the eu celebrated the 10th anniversary of its guidelines on human rights defenders. through various instruments, such as small grants and ‘sheltered cities’, the eu has actively illustrated its support for vulnerable and marginalised human rights defenders. eu and member state diplomats on the ground have attended the trials of human rights defenders and made efforts to secure their release. a recent trial observation in saudi arabia is just one example. over the years, the eu has supported electoral processes throughout the world. since 2000 we have deployed 140 election observation missions. as in so many other fields, strong cooperation with parliament is all the more apparent here. at a multilateral level the eu remained active and engaged with all major international and regional partners. in recent years we have stepped up our cooperation with the council of europe, the osce and other regional mechanisms working on human rights. we intensified and advanced our agenda in geneva and new york. the eu’s role has been pivotal in key united nations achievements such as mandates for special rapporteurs and country resolutions from belarus, iran, burma/myanmar, the democratic people’s republic of korea and syria. i am looking forward to the debate on this important report and i look forward to your further contribution to the promotion of human rights in the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i am very pleased to say that, at my request as coordinator of the european people's party, the presentation of this report has been successfully introduced at the first session after the holidays of the new mandate. thank you, commissioner mimics, for your presentation. i believe that 2013 was a very important year for the union's work on human rights and democracy in the world. we are implementing the changes that have come about as a result of the lisbon treaty, and we have an example of how our response to the challenges of the arab spring is materializing. we also have all these problems that are in the neighborhood, with our neighbors in europe and so what's happening beyond the eastern border of the european union. it is good that the report makes reference, among other things, to the activities of the european union's special representative for human rights, mr stavros lambrinidis, who is also present in today's debate. i would like to emphasise that the european parliament is taking part in these changes through its reports, numerous recommendations and the work of the contact group set up in 2012. the year 2013 also marks the approval of the multiannual financial framework. i am pleased to note that the european instrument for democracy and human rights has been significantly increased in financial terms. we also welcome the fact that nearly 150 different human rights strategies were developed in 2013 with partner countries and that 123 of them were finally endorsed by the political and security committee. however, we reiterate our calls for the development of procedures for effective access to these strategies by the european parliament - if not by all of it, then at least by the rapporteur members and the counter-rapporteurs concerned. the council report notes that the european endowment for democracy also became operational last year. it's an initiative of the polish presidency. by the end of 2013, almost half a thousand applications only 5% of them could be implemented due to financial constraints, but this also demonstrates the rationale for the creation of this instrument. it seems worthwhile to look at the achievements, the effectiveness of the approach and to consider changes that will allow for greater use of the union budget. the report also acknowledges the european parliament's many activities. of those not mentioned, the second summit of european union and eastern partnership ombudsmen is worth noting. what's happening beyond the eastern border of the european union is worth including the spokespersons of those countries in the process and showing good practices and sharing them, not just telling you what you should do. this is a much better instrument. the union's efforts to promote corporate social responsibility and human rights were also noted. we've finished working on the report. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the new rules on the protection of personal data and the new rules on the protection of personal data. finally, i would like to acknowledge the freedom of religion and belief issues that have also been raised. what is happening with the christian yazidis is of particular concern to us. it cannot be that people cannot manifest their religious beliefs or have the right to freedom of religion.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, with reference to the issue of respecting human rights in the world, i would like to touch on the issue of the persecution of christians. it needs to be clearly and firmly emphasised that christians remain the religious community which is persecuted on the largest scale in the world today. north korea, iran, somalia, afghanistan, saudi arabia, libya, syria, iraq, pakistan, the central african republic: these are only the most shameful examples in a group of about 50 countries in which persecution of the christian religion is taking place on an unprecedented scale, including in some cases intimidation, refined acts of humiliation, abductions, rape, sophisticated torture, massacres and mass executions. according to the special report of the international agency open doors, more than 100 million christians suffer from religious persecution. in addition, i would like to emphasise the fact that the european union maintains diplomatic relations with most of the aforementioned countries, and has standing delegations there. i strongly recommend appealing to the heads of these delegations to submit special reports on acts taken with regard to protection of the rights of christian minorities in the countries mentioned.
madam president! this debate is very important because it is not suspended in a vacuum. it is taking place at a time when human rights, including religious rights, are being brutally violated in many lands. this debate is taking place at a time when - and this is important - thousands of christians are dying not only in iraq and syria, but also in african countries. i think that the voice of our parliament should be very strong, very clear, so that it is a loud voice, so that it is not just words, so that action follows, so that, for example, the european union makes aid to these countries, economic aid, dependent on whether or not they respect human rights, and i think that we must finally start to apply this.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. those of us who enter the european parliament every day from the side of the council of europe building see this big banner informing us that azerbaijan is currently holding the presidency of the council of europe. i would like to highlight in this debate today how the azerbaijani authorities have taken extremely destructive actions in recent months and have managed to use the turmoil of the russian-ukrainian conflict to dismantle civil society, so to speak, in the last two months. this society is so intimidated that they don't dare to go out on the streets today or oppose political arrests. unfortunately, the international community's response has been very weak. what is happening in azerbaijan today should, for example, prompt the appointment of a special rapporteur and the council of europe's condemnation of such behaviour. we should also demand from the european union, from our delegation in baku, to condemn this situation more widely, to consider introducing a visa ban for some of aliyev's followers. only such a strong signal could influence the policy of azerbaijan at this moment. and i just wanted to say a few words about business at the end. various european companies (i don't want to mention their names here) have decided to sponsor the first european olympic games, which will be held in baku. of course, the raw material business is huge here. but i wonder if these companies have made any assessment of the impact of this sponsorship on the human rights in the country, in accordance with un rules? these games, let's face it, will be used by aliyev to promote the country and present it in the best possible light. last word: this resolution is very good, but let this be just the first step and let us continue to engage.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i hope you will be a great commissioner and i wish you all the best, although of course the european parliament is losing a great mep and a great vice-president. i'm with you, future commissioner! ladies and gentlemen! it is also an important debate because it draws our attention to the countries of the south caucasus, which have been mentioned in our parliament as less important, and wrongly so, because they are a very important region. a region that generally strives - i'm talking about societies, not necessarily governments - to be as close as possible to europe: to political europe, to european standards, to european values. i have met georgians, armenians, and azeris many times, and i know that they think much as we do. i hope that in the future we will also have a debate on human rights in russia as soon as possible, because it has been very quiet and unfair about this too.
in writing. – the issue surrounding the human rights defenders in azerbaijan continues to grow, as a european institution focused on the rights of all it is our responsibility to intervene in the best way we can. i clearly support the findings of my group and side with them on any interaction they pursue. persecution of human rights defenders in azerbaijan [2014/2832(rsp)] clearly outlines the atrocities’ occurring in azerbaijan and sets forth the action that should be taken by this house. having had the opportunity to follow closely the trials of prosecuted journalists in turkey it is quite evident that this situation mirrors the turkey issue in that journalists are being censored and then prosecuted for what they publish. however the issue in azerbaijan is even further reaching in that the government is prosecuting those who are attempting to assist the citizens in need. i will continue to follow these events and assist in any way i can as these prosecutions are senceless.. –
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. pierre claver mbonimba works for the rights of people persecuted and unlawfully detained in burundi. today, in the plenary, i and my predecessors are speaking in his defense, calling on the authorities to release him immediately and unconditionally. his work has been recognized internationally with important awards, and amnesty international has recognized him as a prisoner of conscience. the economic and political situation of one of africa's smallest and poorest countries is obviously very difficult. however, it does not relieve the burundian government of its obligation and responsibility to respect the african charter on human rights, the un declaration, the kigali declaration on human rights defenders. freedom of expression and respect for rights in burundi are particularly important in the context of the upcoming 2015 elections, which will not be recognized if they do not meet the basic principles of democracy.
madam president! human rights defender pierre claver mbonimpa was arrested on 15 may on charges of inciting public disobedience and endangering national security for statements he made on burundi's public radio about the arming of the ruling party's youth wing. this is not the first time that the burundian government has brutally cracked down on the opposition. let's recall that until today, the political murders between 2010 and 2012 have not been explained. the burundian authorities have committed themselves to the cotonou agreement and the international covenant on civil and political rights. in addition, the european union has already provided financial support to burundi of eur 432 million to support civil society. i call on the burundian government to engage in democratic political debate, especially with the upcoming 2015 elections. i hope that the newly appointed high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy will do all he can to ensure that the union's voice is heard unambiguously wherever fundamental human rights are being violated.
in writing. - the resolution is generally correct, because it calls for peace in eastern ukraine, but unfortunately it is quite one-sided, because it lacks the deeper reflection that comes from knowing many facts, especially historical ones, and better understanding the diverse identity of the societies of different regions of ukraine and the role of russia. unfortunately, the eu's misguided policy of the so-called 'eastern partnership' has raised excessive and unrealistic expectations among a section of ukrainian society, which has resulted in the consequences that were already easy to predict. this situation could unfortunately lead to a humanitarian catastrophe in the coming winter. it can be further aggravated by the economic sanctions which the resolution unfortunately calls for. this is a mistake. while i do not agree with this one-sided interpretation of the facts in the resolution, nor with the calls for sanctions, the effects of which will be felt by all now and in the future, i do, however, regard the call for a ceasefire as a fundamental value. this is the only way to open the way to talks that will peacefully shape the future of the ukrainian state. that is why, despite the many objections to the text of the resolution, i voted in favour of its adoption. but i am missing something that i want to emphasize very strongly, one point: the call for the international community to support the material population of ukraine, the kind of support that will allow it to survive the winter and avoid a humanitarian catastrophe in that country.
in writing. - ukraine's relations with russia must be balanced to avoid escalating a conflict that has already claimed many civilian lives. the european union should try to mitigate this conflict. at the same time, we cannot break off diplomatic relations with russia, because it will be very difficult to re-establish them.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu’s response to the ebola outbreak ([2014/2842(rsp)], motions for resolutions rc-b8-0107/2014, b8-0107/2014, b8-0108/2014, b8-0114/2014, b8-0115/2014, b8-0119/2014, b8-0124/2014 and b8-0126/2014). in doing so i extend my deepest apologies to those family members who have lost a loved one to this tragic outbreak. in an attempt to prevent this virus from spreading into europe i call on everyone to take the necessary precautions to protect themselves and all european citizens. we must support the medical community as they do whatever they can to prevent an outbreak on our continent. this would obviously mean funding and resources adequate for the task at hand. therefore i will do my part by continuing to support this and other legislation that assists in protecting our citizens.
in writing. - mr president, i think that the european parliament should call on the commission and the member states to take concrete action. the appropriate response to events in the middle east should be, first and foremost, a clear declaration of support (including military) to the legitimate governments of syria and iraq in order to restore stability. this should be followed by specific material assistance for victims of persecution. i do not agree with equating the legitimate syrian government with the various militias, much less making it co-responsible for the crimes of these militias. and it is also clear that, contrary to political correctness, christians are the primary victims of persecution in the middle east, and their faith is the cause of the persecution.
in writing. – i have lent my support to the resolution on the situation in iraq and syria and the isis offensive including the persecution of minorities (motions for resolutions [2014/2843(rsp)] rc-b8-0109/2014, b8-0109/2014, b8-0110/2014, b8-0121/2014, b8-0130/2014, b8-0134/2014, b8-0137/2014 and b8-0138/2014). i firmly believe that we must stand with our allies in an effort to minimise and/or stop terrorist groups from expanding and killing innocent people. this also extends to cover the violation of rights of minorities and their ability to prosper. it is quite evident that we live in a time where safety is not always assured, but we must take the appropriate action to protect ourselves and our loved ones. the continued violation and persecution of minority groups has grown vastly over the past decade and it is clearly a time to put an end to the chaos,
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i come from a region that has experienced repeated flooding. my hometown of opole, in 1997 was almost completely flooded by the odra, and i will remember this experience for the rest of my life. i know the devastation that the rivers cause, and i understand the plight of those affected by this disaster. these experiences point to a number of significant problems. first, flood infrastructure requires river management, often destroying a unique natural environment. in poland, we are often faced with the dilemma of protecting our livestock or protecting endangered species, which often delays necessary investments for many years. secondly, effective flood management requires close cooperation between neighbouring countries. in europe, rivers are very rarely entirely within the borders of one country. thus, the actions of one country can make or break the situation in another. the flood risk management plans required by the flood directive have not yet been drawn up, and their implementation will show whether we can work together effectively. the experience of the past few years is not optimistic. however, it is to be hoped that both cooperation between member states and the ability to rapidly develop flood protection infrastructure will improve over time. we must remember that climate change will increase the frequency of floods and other disasters.
thank you very much, commissioner, and thank you, commissioner, for this information, but it is clear that we will not win against ebola in europe, we must win against ebola in africa. so you have to have a plan of action. this action plan must specify the time. we've lost enough time, and the scale of the drama is growing. second, let's remember the people, not just the very deserving volunteer organizations, the doctors, the nurses, and the institutional health care providers, including the experts. thirdly, the institution. can we empower any institution in african countries to coordinate all of this, not just react after the fact? and finally, although it's certainly not the last aspect of the matter: the financial issues. a detailed calculation of the cost of such a vast undertaking and plan and the sources of financing should be prepared. i hope that the measures will not be financed from various crisis sources, such as the agricultural or flood prevention funds, but will be set up as a separate fund.
in writing. – the rapid spread of ebola cannot be understated or overlooked. we must be cautious in our daily activities and remain diligent in our efforts to fight this disease. as stated by my colleague ms georgieva, we must be proud of the efforts of the many member states that are lending support and resourses for this fight. the numbers show the shocking speed with which ebola is spreading; the latest data shows that ʽthere were 4 963 people sick, and there are now 9 191. similarly, the number of people who have lost their lives has almost doubled, from 2 453 to 4 546. unfortunately, a very high number of health professionals are affected, with 427 doctors and nurses sick and, of those, 230 have lost their lives trying to save the lives of othersʼ. it is important that we stay the course and prevent ebola spreading to reach our shores. i remain confident that given the efforts by health professionals and the caution exercised by our citizens, we can beat this problem.
madam president! europe needs major changes and, above all, a decisive modernisation of the european social model. and the price we pay today for not making these changes is high unemployment, not just among young people, but also among women and the elderly. we're still replacing many of the communities in our society in their activities, handing out money without simultaneously implementing tools that give our society opportunities instead of guarantees. no government can guarantee young people jobs, training or internships, and that's the case with the youth guarantee scheme. it is not the governments that have this competence, but the entrepreneurs, who are looked after by the european union through increased bureaucracy and various burdens. let us finally start to act by providing opportunities for young people, and since we have made this ill-advised decision on the youth guarantee programme, let us implement it with great responsibility. today's implementation shows that this responsibility is lacking. finally, where are the proposals for unemployed women and the elderly?
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. youth unemployment is a topic that is raised at every plenary session of the current term. and rightly so, for this is one of the most serious problems facing europe today. the youth guarantee is not a sufficient measure to address this problem, but it is an important instrument that can provide significant support for structural reforms undertaken by member states. however, their implementation must be accelerated. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of the financial regulation). but that's not all. the only way to end unemployment permanently is to create new jobs. we need to stimulate economic growth, because only then will we create a good business climate. employers who have had to reduce their workforce as a result of the crisis must be provided with the right conditions to restore those jobs. we also need to encourage young people to be entrepreneurs and to create opportunities for them to start their own businesses. the support system must be comprehensive and include both administrative facilities and access to finance.
in writing. unemployment in the european union is slowly declining thanks to efforts at european and national level. however, the pace and scale of these efforts are still insufficient. the funds earmarked for the youth guarantee are being spent slowly and the implementation of policies to tackle unemployment in the member states is slow. it is clear that reducing unemployment requires not only training programmes and funding of employment agencies, but also deep structural reforms in both the vocational training system and the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises, which provide the most jobs and are responsible for the largest share of income. during the debate, many people stressed that to achieve a lasting effect, the fight against unemployment must address its causes, not just its symptoms. for employment initiatives to be effective and to deliver on the eu's 75% employment target for 20-64 year olds, member states need public investment to encourage smes to create new jobs. the lack of growth will in the long term deepen the labour market crisis. the youth guarantee will not replace macroeconomic instruments which work across the market, improving not only the situation of young people but also that of older workers whose experience and skills are as important for the development of europe as the enthusiasm and modern education of young people.
in writing. the high level of youth unemployment remains a major problem in the union, and despite a downward trend, it remains high in some member states. in this context, effective monitoring and exchange of best practices on the implementation of the youth guarantee and on strategies to combat unemployment at european level is key. another issue is the rise in the number of long-term unemployed. according to 2014 statistics, almost 13 million people have been unemployed for more than a year, and more than one third of the unemployed have been unemployed for more than two years. long-term unemployment has negative consequences both for the long-term unemployed and for member states' budgets. the cost of keeping people out of work is estimated at pln 10.5 billion a year in poland, for example. however, most of the competence relating to employment lies with the member states, and therefore many aspects necessary for increasing employment are their responsibility. the necessary actions include the correlation of education systems with labour market needs to facilitate the transition from education to employment and the development of a knowledge-based economy.
the next item is the report by mr philippe de backer, drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of priorities for 2014 (2014/2059(ini)) (a8-0019/2014).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the european semester is an important component of the system of economic governance in the eu. its key instruments are country-specific recommendations (csrs) that aim at ensuring better coordination of economic policies and fostering crucial structural reforms in the member states. however, the overall effectiveness of csrs is still limited. only 10 to 15% of csrs have been fully implemented by member states in 2013. as a result, macroeconomic imbalances still persist, progress in implementing badly needed structural reforms is slow and uneven and strong economic growth in europe is still to come. in the report, the european parliament calls on the member states to undertake more effort to fully implement csrs. what is at stake is the very credibility of the european union and its ability to definitively overcome the current crisis. one way to improve the efficiency of the european semester is to make sure that reasons and causes for unsatisfactory implementation of csrs are properly analysed and eliminated and that the whole elimination process is more disciplined. another way is to radically strengthen national ownership of csrs in individual member states in order to mobilise sufficient political capital in favour of reforms. more involvement by national parliaments could also help. it would also improve democratic control over the whole exercise. in the process of preparing this report, a wide range of proposals and amendments have been submitted and discussed. we eventually managed to come up with a draft that represents a reasonable compromise and which reflects most of the key priorities of major political groups. therefore, i call on all member states and all members of the house to vote in favour of the report. we, as the european parliament, should support the european commission in its efforts to fully use the framework of the european semester to improve economic governance in europe.
mr. chairman, please! the european semester report is an important debate on the current state of the economies of the european union and their needs. i agree with many of the problems highlighted in the report, such as the issue of youth unemployment or the energy dependence of some european union countries, including my own country, on russia, but i cannot support the call for such far-reaching synchronisation of economic policies, which in the long term will be a threat to the sovereign budgetary policies of the member states. i am also concerned about the record of support for all three pillars of the banking union, which i oppose, and the call for a unified external representation of the euro area. i think we should leave more decision-making to the member states.
mr president, alongside budgetary macroeconomic measures, structural reforms are at the heart of the european semester, and the country-specific recommendations help identify the most pressing structural reform needs across europe. but what we need today is a strong structural reform commitment catalyst and coordination technology that would guide the reforms from the commitment stage to reality. the european commission enjoys as never before the legitimacy of both parliament and the council, and has the capacity and resources to coordinate and scrutinise structural reforms. so, unless the commission assumes this double role of commitment catalyst and coordination mechanism, the european debate on structural reform will remain empty rhetoric. markets will punish failure to act. europe, of course, cannot afford to run such a risk.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i hereby close the vote.
we are in the midst of key decisions by the european council on the future of climate, energy policy, the future of our economic policy in the european union. the presidency has presented six climate policy objectives, but at the same time we as meps are asked: is it possible to reduce emissions by 40% while maintaining economic growth? will the new reduction targets allow, among other things, the rebuilding of jobs: the 5 million we are talking about in the europe 2020 strategy? will they also allow for the industry to gain from the re-industrialization a gdp growth of between 16% and 20%? that is the aim of the new commission. will the new reduction targets not lead to carbon leakage production diversion and also emissions outside the union and thus possibly also to capacity reductions in individual member states and their economies? how will we compete under the new free trade agreement with the united states, given that energy prices in the union are higher, that the united states is growing by more than 4% and that energy prices are lower, for example because of shale gas prices? how can we solve the energy supply problem (gas is one of the elements of reducing emissions, including imported gas) when energy has become a field and a weapon of confrontation, as evidenced by the conflict between russia and ukraine? i'd like to say that we have different goals. we want to achieve reductions, increase renewables, efficiency, and also make a good impression at cop21, but we also want to maintain energy prices and the number of emission allowances, for example, because of the crisis that has occurred. the general dispute is the height of the reduction targets and the division between countries, and maybe the countries that can reduce more should do more, and the others should do more, depending on their economic and social capabilities. member states - and this is my last point, mr president - should have the right to choose the path to reaching reduction targets, the amount of res and the implementation of energy efficiency. one size fits all approach should not be pushed.
mr. chairman, please! in this parliament, there is a lot of talk about justice, about equal opportunities, about supporting the weak. the union should also take these principles into account in pursuing its climate objectives. this should be taken into account in the forthcoming summit, which is expected with great interest but also with great concern in poland. in this case, it's about the inequality between countries, between rich and poor societies, about the right to economic development. some countries have spent years building their economic position, accumulating wealth while polluting the environment. there are also countries in europe that have undergone a painful systemic transformation and are still reaping the consequences of being unwillingly drawn into the soviet sphere of influence. poles expect the european union to help them upgrade their coal-fired power plants, not further de-industrialise and weaken their economy by adopting stricter environmental standards, especially as countries like germany emit more carbon dioxide per capita than poland, build new coal-fired power plants, and increase brown coal mining. i would remind you that about 45% of germany's electricity comes from coal and that in recent years four new power plants have been built in the country. the burden of climate targets must take greater account of the different levels of development and wealth of the member states than has been the case so far.
mr. chairman, please! the damage to european industry caused by the eu's climate policy has been repeatedly highlighted in the public debate. the real interests of entrepreneurs, including polish entrepreneurs, are sacrificed on the altar of the invented ideology of global warming. the polish delegation will be attending the summit along with the new prime minister. i call on the polish government to veto the summit! instead of rising energy costs, the polish entrepreneur needs low taxes, limited administration and simple business rules. for poland, accepting the new proposals of the european commission or even continuing the current eu climate policy means economic disaster. if the price of a megawatt hour in poland is currently around pln 160, it will be pln 320 in the near future. the average polish household's electricity costs will therefore increase many times over. i call again for a veto of the summit!
mr. chairman, please! in three days, the council is due to take key decisions setting out the framework for energy and climate policies until 2030. the previous 2020 framework was adopted 12 years before the target date. today we're doing it 16 years ahead of schedule. what's the reason for the rush? especially since the negotiating strategy for the paris climate summit is questionable, assuming that the whole world expects us to lead in saving the climate. it is likely that this will not help us again, and we will be in serious trouble, especially with the 40% target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. we will reduce our energy security by limiting our access to indigenous resources, and we will also put our economies in competition with countries that will not bear similar costs. all this while the european commission is trying to figure out how to revive industry and raise its share of gdp from 16 to 20%. for poland, the introduction of the eu plan would entail disproportionately high costs, with the consequence of economic and social degradation in my homeland. there's no way that's going to happen.
mr. chairman, please! the council is to discuss and adopt new proposals to reduce co2, which would be extremely dangerous for the economies of central and eastern european countries, including poland, as well as for the entire european economy. believing in the alleged decisive human influence on climate change, the european union wants to be the leader in reducing carbon emissions worldwide. this policy will undoubtedly lead to a reduction in the competitiveness of our economy and in some member states will destroy it completely. acceptance of the new proposals will automatically lead to drastic increases in energy prices and, as a consequence, to economic disaster, for example in poland. many european plants, for example, are fleeing to asia, emitting co2 from there. instead of making senseless decisions, we should be looking at modern coal-fired power plants. the heads of government responsible should therefore veto the proposed draft at the council meeting.
mr. chairman, please! good politics requires leadership, determination, but it also requires the ability to step back critically, to critically evaluate your actions, to critically review your actions. i am thinking particularly of the part of the summit that will deal with the climate package. i am deeply convinced that the climate package as it stands will put an undue burden on the european economy, and particularly on the economies of those countries that have not had a chance to modernise, those countries that rely on traditional energy sources. i am, frankly, very surprised that commissioner katainen has not presented precise views in this area and has not shown the ability to make a real compromise. i am afraid that this is the real compromise that is needed at the summit because europe cannot take on too much of the burden of the emissions levies. he can't take on this burden because he has to think about his own development. i hope the summit will bring about rational decisions on this matter. i am quite frank about this, and i have not been able to find any precise words in the speeches by the president of the council and commissioner katainen.
madam president, of course it makes sense to discuss the draft amending budget before discussing 2015, as this is the key – by bridging the gap in payments – to reasonable programming for the next year. mr deprez, our rapporteur, is right that integrating the 2013 surplus into the revenue side of the 2014 budget should be a technical exercise – just a formality and part of the budgetary routine. for external observers, this might even seem paradoxical, because we are claiming to have a shortage of money and payments, but, on the other hand, we have a surplus. this is due to the complexity of the financial regulation, which i am not going to discuss. but, in the context of the present-day situation – which has been documented and illustrated by commissioner dominik in the clearest possible manner – of the drama of payments, it makes sense to bridge the gap before starting real conciliation over 2015. this is not only about draft budget no. 2, but also about all the amending budgets for 2014, making a package. therefore, the decision of the parliament to place it in reserve is the right choice before the conciliation.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. today we're discussing a passage that obviously won't solve the payment issue. the dab ii will not therefore solve the problem, but it is an example of parliament's attempt to behave rationally by facilitating a certain mechanism and making certain actions more flexible. in view of the above, i fully support the rapporteur's proposal, since it is a question of measures of a purely technical nature to facilitate certain decisions which will also make it easier for us to discuss the 2015 budget. we are aware that this is only a partial solution and that it actually reduces the burden on member states rather than increasing it. we therefore hope - and here i join the commissioner in his appeal - that we will find a common position with the council on this issue and that the matter will be resolved quickly, which will open the way for further action in the 2015 budget.
madam president! i would like to give my full support to what commissioner dominic said. i would also like to support the comments made by the members, which made it very clear that the situation with regard to the union budget in 2014 is indeed becoming critical. it is true that parliament's decisions cannot solve this situation, they can only alleviate it somewhat. the council's position must be more firm and decisive. i would therefore like to ask the council representative, the italian government representative, what is the council doing at this moment to close this growing gap in the union's financial problems? what action is the council taking, and what results can we expect from this action before the end of the year?
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. we have already healed the european economy, but we do not yet have a strategy for getting out of the crisis. we are in danger of stagnation if we do not drive the economy, especially by small and medium-sized enterprises, by innovative enterprises, by reindustrialization, by modern industry, and also by safe and cheap energy. we can do all this by funding programmes like cosme for smes, horizon 2020 or the connecting europe facility, and it is in these areas that the council has proposed cuts of over 10%, a dozen or so%, the biggest in the whole budget. it is hard to imagine that we can meet the expectations of young people in europe in particular, and create attractive new jobs, without reintroducing the funding that the commission has proposed. that's the minimum. and that's what we're calling for.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. - mr president, the 2015 budget is clearly not ‘business as usual’. the way the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2019 was constructed has left us very low ceilings for 2014 and 2015. we have no other choice but to stick to the mff agreement and use these ceilings fully, in particular with regard to payment appropriations. this is my first comment. my second point is that amendments to the 2014 budget come at a low cost to member states. there is no reason not to deliver them, because they are the precondition for stabilising the growing backlog. my third comment: the european parliament agreed to lower budgets for 2011, 2012 and 2013 to help member states with their fiscal consolidation. but now is the last wake-up call to address the postponed challenges and to clear the way towards stabilisation of the entire multiannual financial framework.
mr. chairman, please! discussions on the annual budget are always discussions on the shape of the union. we are forgetting that we are talking about a very small contribution from the member states to the common budget, because the member states keep most of the money for themselves, and we are talking as if the union were responsible for everything that happens in each member state. we are trying to get an eu budget to mobilise certain actions and to activate mechanisms, and 2015 is the second year of the financial perspective, that is the year in which the accounts will be settled according to the n+2 principle of 2013, that is the last year of the previous perspective. we can expect to see a build-up of spending, so if we know that the budget is going to be very difficult and the spending is going to be higher, we can't make a move to reduce the budget, which means that we are in the atmosphere of a looming budget crisis today. we've been through this a few times. parliament is prepared to take decisive and strong action on conciliation, and we are prepared to defend our position firmly.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate, i would like to draw attention to two issues. firstly, the need to decide whether parliament should maintain its position on raising the level of payments to eur 146 billion, i.e. more than eur 6 billion more than the council decided. this increase in payment appropriations is only a partial solution to the problem of the backlog of payments, which, as we have heard, already amounts to over 30 billion euros, 10 billion of which must be paid in cash. secondly, i would strongly advise parliament not to support the commission's decision to finance the fight against ebola in 2015 from the crisis reserve created under the common agricultural policy. the commission's decision to allocate almost €450 million, or the majority of this reserve, to fight the virus is irresponsible when we are certain that russian sanctions on eu food will be maintained in 2015 as well. after all, only a few farmers have benefited from the funds launched in this year's budget, and all market sellers suffer losses.
mr. chairman, please! the 2015 budget cannot be business as usual. indeed, the european parliament's proposal and negotiating position is not business as usual, it is an ambitious proposal that goes beyond the proposal submitted by the european commission, and even exceeds the ceiling of the financial perspective, which is, moreover, 2 billion euros lower than the actual implementation of the 2013 budget for the coming year. the proposal, which we are likely to vote on tomorrow, is drawn up in such a way as to correspond to the dramatic payment situation which has been very precisely drawn up for the benefit of parliament in the presence of the italian presidency by commissioner dominik. this proposal also corresponds to the council's conclusions, because the council is constantly looking for ways of financing growth and jobs, and indeed the european budget at this scale is only part of the answer to the riddle of how to finance growth and jobs in the context of fiscal consolidation, so it plays its part and is a way of leveraging private capital on a larger scale. 2014 and 2015 are still accounts from the previous financial perspective that have been reviewed, are legal, should be paid. over 40% of the payments in next year's budget are bills from the previous perspective for projects already completed. so it's not just the economy that's at stake, it's the credibility of the european union's institutions.
madam president! we are aware that the 2015 budget is a budget that depends on three important conditions. first, from the backlog, which is already in the tens of billions of euros. secondly, from the payments that will be made from 2007 to 2013, and let us not have any doubts about that. and finally, the third and most important aspect: these two elements must not prevent us from functioning normally and achieving our objectives in 2015. the three main areas that are important from our point of view are: competitiveness for growth and jobs, economic, social and territorial cohesion and a global europe. what is particularly striking about the draft budget and the council's position (the commission's position is much closer to ours)? namely, the council is trying to be relatively generous in its commitments, but this is not the time for commitments. now it is time for payment and we cannot accept this amount, just as we cannot accept the council's position.
madam president, the yearly budget is not just about numbers or figures. we are talking about the backbone of the whole european project. this is why council proposals to cut the eu budget for 2015 raise so much concern in this house. first, we are faced with a growing deficit of the budget partly due to faster than planned implementation of many eu-financed projects, but also partly because of late payments by member states. as a result, the commission still has a lot of invoices unpaid from previous budgets. this is a dangerous situation which destabilises the investment process in member states and critically undermines the credibility of the european union. therefore, i support parliament’s call for member states to respect fully their financial obligations with respect to the eu budget. second, the proposed reduction of payments appropriations in heading 1a – competitiveness for growth and jobs amounts to more than 1.3 billion. this means that almost two-thirds of all payments cuts suggested by the council will negatively affect innovation, research and small and medium-sized enterprises, areas with the largest potential for growth and jobs. these proposals clearly fly in the face of everything we have said concerning the necessity to restore strong growth in europe. hence, i strongly support parliament’s position not only to restore the commission’s budget proposals, but also to consider going above the ceiling in this strategically important heading.
madam president! in my view, a particularly important aspect of the union budget is to provide the necessary resources to pay back previously committed commitments, especially in relation to cohesion and rural development policies. it should be remembered that cohesion policy funding is a major source of support for member states and regions in their efforts to create jobs, increase competitiveness or promote sustainable growth. at the same time, the non-payment of the debt shows the european union as an unreliable partner, something we cannot afford. unfortunately, at the moment we have 26 billion euros of unpaid commitments, 23 billion of which are in cohesion policy alone. i am therefore convinced that particular emphasis should be placed on maintaining the payment ceilings proposed by the european commission, in particular for titles 1b and 2 of the union budget.
madam president! the hungarians elected the fidesz-kdnp government twice, they made a national choice, and in fact today, respect for this choice that the hungarians made is a real test of respect for the rights of nations and the diversity that we talk about so much. i regret the change in hungary's foreign policy and i hope that the hungarian government will withdraw from this change. but let's remember how this change came about. one of the most hardline governments in europe against russia was threatened with sanctions by the european parliament. - for what? - for what? because the hungarians wanted a christian civilization, because the hungarians wanted an accounting of communism, because they wanted a strong, just state that guarantees the rights of its citizens, because they wanted to break the demographic crisis and demographic growth. it is time to realize that the attacks on hungary are simply destroying european unity and solidarity. i hope the promoters of these attacks finally realize that.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you if you think that during the period of socialist rule in hungary, a few years ago, the opposition and above all citizens with opposition views were sufficiently represented in the media? was it good then? and one more question. are you really not concerned that crimes against communist victims go unpunished, but that judges trained in communist times... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! free trade is always beneficial to both sides, so there is no reason for us to determine what ukraine can and cannot import. it's only good for the people who make a living writing these reports. i understand that perfectly well and i think the only point of the report i have in my hand is that the sugar beet producers have given in to those who allow the products to be marketed and the potato producers have not. all goods from and to ukraine should be allowed to enter the european union market and vice versa.
madam president! there are two dimensions to this matter we're talking about. firstly, aid and support for ukraine, and secondly, the dignity and credibility of the european union. the word has been spoken, so if the european union has agreed to the entry into force of the association agreement with ukraine only in a year's time, then in order to be credible in its relations with ukraine and decisive in its relations with russia, the european union must keep its word. so we need to move autonomous trade measures to the end of next year. otherwise, no one, especially russia, will ever take us seriously again. we, the union, not russia, should decide when our trade agreements with other countries come into force.
madam president! it's clear that what we're trying to do right now is to try to empower economically countries in need. it's a clear political signal that we don't condone aggression on the one hand, and on the other hand we don't leave those in need. put simply, a stable ukraine is in our interest. it is in our interest to strengthen ukraine, but above all it is in our interest to bring ukraine closer to the european union. of course, this must be done in a clear and transparent manner. this must mean deep structural changes linked to political and economic reform in ukraine, and this should be the signal a clear signal to the citizens of the european union and ukraine.
mr president, there was a lot in president juncker’s presentation which i found interesting, but i am slightly confused at the same time. on the one hand, mr juncker, you were preaching flexibility, and on the other hand you were advocating discipline. on the one hand you were urging to strengthen the community method, and on the other you were defending the nation states and the autonomy of the nations. now, i am a simple minded man. i believe that if you take one, you cannot have the other. if you have the other, you cannot have the first. the world is logical, and political programmes should also be logical; this should not violate the laws of logic. i would be grateful for some enlightenment on this.
first of all, i would like to congratulate president juncker on the way he has chosen to set up the commission and on the principles that are to guide its work. it is very important to move away from fragmentation of the commissioners' portfolio. i also hope that a task-oriented structure with coordinating individual commissioners and individual portfolio vice-presidents will pass the test. mr president, i support your idea of combining the commissioners' tasks in an interdisciplinary way: energy and climate, industrial policy, entrepreneurship and the market - to name just a few. the most important task that i heard in your speech was to overcome the effects of the economic crisis (which are still being felt), that is to say, to restore economic growth through investment, but not only, and to return jobs to the member states of the european union, to the whole of the european union, to maintain the freedom of movement of persons, because attempts are being made to restrict that freedom (we are also hearing about this in this chamber today), or to fully implement the services directive, which can also bring positive effects on economic development. economic growth will not be possible without a sound energy and climate policy, which must be adapted to the development of the member states based on their own energy resources. the ukrainian-russian crisis shows that own resources can be the basis of security. many of us, myself included, are ardent supporters of the better regulation approach to legislative work. the situation is intolerable where the bodies which have the initiative, and consequently parliament, are uncoordinated when draft directives or regulations overlap with areas already regulated. mr president, i would like to congratulate you if the commission you are leading succeeds in achieving these objectives.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: you have graciously said that you are limiting your powers to the other members of the commission, but i would point out that this does not limit your responsibility. if anything goes wrong, you'll probably be called in here to answer for it. you've also made it clear that you're not a servant of parliament, but i hope you're a servant of society. this parliament is an emanation of society. we therefore expect parliament to play a very important role in this cooperation. you said the world is not safe, it's dangerous, and we agree. you mentioned the islamic republic, you mentioned ebola, and what do you think about our eastern border, because you didn't say anything about that? is what is happening beyond the eastern border of the union a safe world? the third very important issue is the amount of 300 billion euros. i'm glad you confirm that, but i'd like to know more about the sources. what about the financial transaction tax, or the concept of project bonds, because we know more or less what they're for. i am glad that this will not become a method of increasing public debt. we'll vote for you. good luck with that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, president juncker, the ecr group will abstain. you start, so to speak, with a clean slate. we heard your words, we heard the words of the commissioners, but words are like smoke – they tend to blur in peoples’ memory. we will wait for your performance. we count on your success, not on your failure. the future is in your hands. your team is far from the dream team, but there are some good people there, so there is some hope. i must admit we were slightly dismayed by your excessive support of the community method when you have the alternative – subsidiarity. the ecr is definitely on the side of subsidiarity, so do not promise goods that you cannot deliver. there are some limitations. you just cannot deliver certain goods. you cannot reduce youth unemployment – much as you would like to – because you do not have the instruments to do so. you did not mention innovation (which i think is to your credit), because the european commission or european parliament do not have the instruments to boost innovation. if they had the instruments, we would have been thriving, and all the nobel prizes would go to europe. they are not going to europe, and there must be some reason for it. so, contrary to what a lot of my colleagues have said, i urge you to practise the virtue of self-restraint. do not be over-active. the subsidiarity principle is to be treated seriously, and please do not jump on the federalist bandwagon. my last point is about so-called ‘european’ values. you are a representative of christian democracy: a noble political tradition, long dead but worth reviving. so my request is: do not kow-tow to the political left that dominates the european union. act like a good christian democrat. do not think that you can appease them. believe me, they do not take prisoners. take my advice, because this is friendly advice made in a good spirit. good luck.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of today's vote to appoint the new european commission. for more than two weeks, parliament has been examining the qualifications of the 27 commissioners-designate proposed by the new commission president, jean-claude juncker. i have already participated in the interviews of commissioners-designate three times, during the two barroso commissions and the current one, and i think we have chosen a good team with a good work programme. although most of the candidates did well in the auditions, i believe they had too little time to thoroughly study their portfolio and prepare for their new role. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the energy sector is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the new slovenian candidate violeta bulc was given a positive assessment as the person responsible for transport, and the slovak maroš šefčovič was appointed vice-president for energy union. president juncker, with his team more experienced than in previous years, is now ready to tackle the economic and geopolitical challenges facing europe.
mr president, as mark twain once observed, there is no distinctly american criminal class, except congress. i think the proper institution to deal with the commission will be the european prosecution office, not the european parliament, and that is exactly why that institution does not exist. moreover, i think that the european union should be destroyed.
in writing. - i voted to accept a new european commission under the presidency of jean-claude juncker. i am aware that not all the s&d group's demands have been met, but much has been achieved. the composition of the ec is always a compromise. as i stressed in the debate, i look forward to good and systematic cooperation between the commission and the ep. the president of the commission reaffirmed all the key priorities in his speech. in this situation, the new commission should start work as soon as possible on 1 november, and in fact as from 3 november, i.e. the first working day.
in writing. i abstained on the vote to appoint a new college of commissioners. it is unacceptable to me that the opinion of the european parliament on the hungarian commissioner tibor navracsics has not been taken into account. the cult committee rejected by a majority of votes the candidacy of mr navracsics in respect of the portfolio allocated to him. however, his remit has been changed only minimally and he remains commissioner for education, culture and youth. this situation is unacceptable to the members of the committee on culture and education (cult), who have assessed the candidacy of t. navracsics negatively in these areas. as a member of the cult committee, i cannot agree to tibor navracsics being appointed commissioner for education, culture and youth, whose political background and, above all, the qualification to be commissioner for education, culture, youth and citizenship have not been accepted by the cult committee. the fact that the committee responsible for questioning mr navracsics did not take the opinion into account and that there was no reaction to the candidate's inadequate training and qualifications as commissioner for education, culture and youth did not allow me to fully support the new european commission.
in writing. - i have serious doubts about the eu budget for 2015. the eu-wide budget is estimated at €145 billion. it should be made clear that this will be €2 billion less than the budget implemented in 2014 and, in addition, the 2015 budget will be burdened with bills not paid by the eu in the current year, amounting to at least €24 billion. this worrying situation will mean in practice that there will be a lack of funds to implement the infrastructure investment strategy, to support new technologies and to create new jobs. it is clear that further savings in the eu budget will be necessary. i think as a member of parliament, they cannot be equally distributed. the focus needs to be on tackling europe's number one social problem, the scourge of unemployment. i therefore propose that the planned expenditure for 2015 be revised in this respect, in order to give greater support to all those areas, investments and research that create new jobs.
mr president, we voted against the budget. robbing the people and giving great amounts of money to some abstract projects is a criminal act. throwing billions away to fight global warming is a criminal act. moreover, i think the european union should be destroyed.
in writing. - as the author of the juri opinion on the 2015 budget, i welcome the result of today's vote. the ep restored the amounts of expenditure and commitments (eur 142.1 billion and eur 145.6 billion) proposed in june by the european commission, thus rejecting the council's proposal which called for a reduction of the level of proposed payments by more than eur 2 billion, which would mean a reduction of -0.18% compared to the 2014 budget. i am pleased that we have been able to reach an agreement on the use of the flexibility mechanisms provided for in the 2014-2020 mff regulation, including the use of the contingency margin. this is an increase in the payment ceiling for 2015 of around eur 4 billion. these funds should be used for growth and employment policies, education and support for people in conflict-affected regions. additional measures are also needed to support farmers who have suffered losses as a result of the russian food embargo on the eu. the council's position is worrying because it could lead to an increase in deficits carried over from one budget year to the next, which would result in a loss of credibility with partner countries and the blocking of key projects under horizon 2020, erasmus+ or the neighbourhood policy. at the end of 2013, the backlog of payments since 2010 was already around eur 23 billion.
in writing. - i voted for the budget. the european parliament's position is justified and moderate. we need a higher amount. in 2015, we will have increased payments for the period 2007-2013 according to the n+2 principle. a new financial prospect is beginning. we can't give up on the goal of economic recovery. we need more payments, not more liabilities. i expect the council to change its position.
in writing. - as regards the union's 2015 budget, i would like to draw attention to the alarming situation regarding payments, which the union must urgently address. the lack of payment appropriations threatens, inter alia, the continuity of the functioning of key union programmes, including erasmus+, for which there is already a €100 million payment gap in the 2014 budget. the situation is also particularly alarming in the area of research and development, where the gap between policy declarations and actual action is the widest. horizon 2020, the eu's largest research and development programme, is designed to boost the eu economy, provide a scientific and technological base for industry and improve the quality of life for europeans, yet it is structurally underfunded. the year 2015 is the first year of the new financial perspective, so new programmes that take some time to start will not be short of funds. however, in the years to come, if we do not solve the problem of managing payments and reduce the structural budget deficit, the lack of payment appropriations will become more and more widespread. it is therefore essential that the payments launched by the commission are closely monitored. a review of the multiannual financial framework in 2016 will also be necessary in terms of increasing payment appropriations and real commitment planning to enhance the union's innovation and competitiveness.
in writing. - amendment 232 to the draft general budget of the eu states that financial support for the breeding of bulls used for fighting should not be covered by the budget of the european union. the corrida, in which these bulls are used, is a spanish tradition, and the eu should not interfere in this, let alone fund projects that are questionable from a humanitarian point of view. according to the european convention for the protection of animals kept for farming purposes, animals should not be subjected to suffering, injury or fear. i voted in favour of the amendment, which is against the european union supporting the breeding of bulls for fighting purposes.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2014 because i believe that parliament should call on the member states to implement the european recommendations more conscientiously. only 10-15% of the union's recommendations on national economic and budgetary policies under the so-called european semester were fully implemented in 2013. i believe that the coordination of national economic policies stimulates economic growth and ensures the stability of public finances. in its report, parliament criticised the effectiveness of the implementation of the european semester recommendations and proposed its own solutions. the report calls on the member states to explain the reasons for non-compliance. violations of the union's fiscal rules by certain member states undermine the credibility of the economic and monetary union and pose a threat to the monetary union.
in writing. - the political balance in the european union has changed since the european parliament elections in may. this new balance must change the nature of the economic and social debate. as this report shows, the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament will be promoting a new investment policy with more flexibility in the stability and growth pact to put more emphasis on creating quality jobs in europe.
in writing. - in the context of the vote on the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination implementation of the priorities for 2014, i would like to draw attention to two points. first, the role of innovation, research and education. recommendations to member states to increase investment in research, development, innovation and education, which are essential to enhance the competitiveness of the economies of the member states and of the union as a whole, are of particular relevance. in this context, i strongly support president juncker's investment plan to support the recovery of the eu's economic growth. i look forward to its swift launch by the commission and to its focus in particular on areas such as infrastructure, research and development, innovation and human capital. i hope that the commission will also ensure that the implementation of the economic policy recommendations for individual member states is properly monitored and coordinated and better linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, including poverty reduction in the union. secondly, i support the idea of a european legal framework introducing minimum standards for the application of the youth guarantee. the youth guarantee is a key european project to tackle youth unemployment. monitoring the quality of its implementation is essential for the success of this initiative. not only must young people have jobs, but these jobs should be adequately remunerated and should allow young workers to gain work experience.
mr. chairman, please! the polish president lech kaczyński, a victim of the smolensk disaster, said that the rations in the modern world are not distributed evenly. those who fight for freedom and defend freedom are right. that is why the syrian city of kobane, so close to the turkish border, is stirring our imagination and mobilizing us to action. i'm glad that the last few hours have brought into play an actor who was essential to alleviate the situation in the city and the terrible tragedy of the humanitarian population, mostly kurdish. i am glad that the peshmerga fighters have been allowed to move within the borders of turkey. all of this is not enough. we need to mobilize because isis needs to be decisively defeated in these areas and in iraq, in other places where they're trying to gain ground. it is also necessary to limit the financial capacity of this terrorist organisation.
mr president, i would like to remark that the charter of the north atlantic treaty organisation (nato) clearly states that nato can act when a member of the pact is attacked. neither syria nor iraq is a member of nato, so nato cannot do anything.
50 years ago, 40 years ago, hong kong was flourishing, because it was a british colony. there was no democracy. all the member states of the european union are democracies, and we are all in moral and economic ruin. therefore, i consider that the european union must be destroyed.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have calculated that there are 12 members of the european parliament in the chamber, like 12 apostles. i do not know which of us is judas, but this turnout is not particularly pleasant, although on the other hand my predecessor is right: we should have had this debate much earlier. thank you to the council for being here! there are nine of them. that's a strong representation. i wanted to emphasise that my group in parliament - the conservatives and reformists - is of the opinion that we should vote against discharge until the european court of auditors in luxembourg has issued a certificate of assurance on the implementation of the union budget as a whole. this means that the ecr will vote to adopt the draft report which contains a refusal to grant discharge. the reason for the refusal to grant discharge is - and we know this, especially the members who have been in the european parliament for a long time - the recurring difficulties encountered so far in the discharge procedures. they were the result of a lack of cooperation with the council. if that's going to change now, great! parliament refused to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for 2009, 2010 and 2011 and postponed it for 2012. i would point out that the council has not given any answer to parliament's questions, hence our decision.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to make it very clear that we are debating a very good report by a very good member of parliament. the report gives us the legal basis on which the european parliament has the right, and even the duty, to ask the council to provide the relevant documents for debate and, if necessary, for discharge. the report clearly shows what was missing, and that is why i welcome the declaration made today by the italian presidency, but i heard it from the greek presidency not so long ago. it means that you, as the presidency, gentlemen, don't have much say in it, because someone else is in charge. but let's look at what's important from our point of view, which is that we're talking about public money. citizens, taxpayers, the public have a right to know how money is spent here in parliament, in the commission and in the council, and for that reason the council cannot be exempted from this general rule. this is a question of the quality of our union and on this basis, as the rapporteur has suggested, the refusal to grant discharge is justified, although the legal value of this is a matter for the individual and perhaps it should be the subject of our future considerations.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to the fact that so far farmers in my country, poland, have not received a single euro of the eu's highly-anticipated compensation for the russian food embargo in the eu, due to the bureaucratic back-rooming of the eu. unfortunately, only a small group of farmers will benefit from the measures introduced in this year's budget, in poland only a few thousand. it is therefore necessary for the commission to develop new proposals to compensate at least part of the losses to farmers so that future compensation will reach all those affected by the russian sanctions. in this context, i was very surprised to learn that the commission wants to allocate nearly eur 350 million in the 2015 budget from the so-called crisis reserve created under the cap to the fight against ebola. i think it's an irresponsible idea, knowing that in 2014 only a few farmers will receive compensation, and russian sanctions on eu food will be maintained in 2015 as well.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the memorial will be held in 2014, exactly 25 years after the society was officially established. we know that the work of this association began earlier and that its record is impressive. i remind you that this is documentation, dissemination, action for civil rights and good memory of the victims, and this must inspire recognition and respect. in my opinion, russia owes the most to the memorial itself, and it's a pity that moscow doesn't understand and see it. it was the activity of such institutions that created the modest but nevertheless essential credibility of the russian state itself. the threats of abandonment, disruption or even elimination of such a valuable business with such a valuable heritage are completely incomprehensible. i would remind you that today's debate and motion for a resolution also arise from the conviction that the activities of the memorial concern not only russian affairs but also those of many other countries, and especially societies and peoples. it is no coincidence that branches, individuals and even institutions that operate quite autonomously also operate outside russia.
on behalf of the s&d group. the internal situation in russia is worrying the international public. human rights defenders working for the benefit of the citizens are increasingly being persecuted there. the memorial association, which has been awarded not only the european parliament's sakharov prize, but also the pro dignitate humana award by the polish ministry of foreign affairs, is another victim of russia's so-called foreign agents law. hundreds of ngos have been subject to unannounced inspections that have blocked their work, and dozens are currently involved in legal proceedings leading to heavy financial penalties and, in some cases, closure. in this context, the restriction of the right to freedom of association of citizens should be strongly condemned. the authorities of the russian federation, in accordance with russia's international human rights obligations, should take the necessary measures to repeal the foreign agents act, thereby allowing civil society organisations, including memorals, to carry out their work.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. putin's russia is unraveling its conscience initiated by a. sakharov memorial, winner of the european parliament's sakharov prize. it's a blow to the russian anti-putin opposition. for poland, it's a deterioration of the chances of a real polish-russian reconciliation. it is also another event that confirms the stalinist turn in russian policy after the aggression against georgia and ukraine. this situation requires our adequate diplomatic, financial and economic response, but also a revision of the partnership concept. it cannot be that the european parliament becomes a forum for humiliating speeches by russian representatives, as during the pcc councils.
madam president! we were here in this room when we were awarding the sakharov prize to the memorial. the award, which has been given out for 25 years, is named after the man who helped create the memorial. at the same time, we know that two years ago, russia passed a law on foreign agents. it was not a good day for russian democracy, because the law now affects the memorial, so the organization, which has been working since the soviet union, which is engaged in historical research, promoting knowledge about the victims of soviet repression, during the stalinist period and not only, protecting human rights in the countries of the former soviet union, but also in present-day russia, is to cease its activities, we cannot remain silent when we know that russia is a signatory to the european convention on human rights or the osce principles. russia should abide by these principles and allow the memorial to function.
madam president! a few weeks ago, at the libe meeting, i called on the council of europe representatives who were visiting us to react to the persecution of the memorial association, because an attack on the memorial is an attack on memory, an attack on historical truth. and this attack clearly confirms the neo-soviet nature of putin's policy. it's good that we're talking about this in parliament today. the question is only why the resolution we are voting on, alongside the memorial case, contains a clause again on the political movement of homosexuals, the so-called lgbt. these intrusive calls are only for putin's propaganda. it is through such inventions that putin can present himself as the champion of the moral order and act in this role towards the oppressed russian people and towards, as lenin said, the "useful idiots" in the west. is that really the effect that the authors of the resolution want?
- madam president! as noted in the june report by the american freedom house, also cited in the resolution, 'russia plays a key role in the breakdown of democracy in the post-soviet area'. russia also serves as, quote, "a model and inspiration for policies that lead to the retreat of free institutions across eurasia". the situation is particularly bad in uzbekistan, which, while seeking independence from russia, is doing so at the expense of persecuting its own citizens. the aim of our resolution is to show the people and authorities of uzbekistan that the preservation of national independence is not served by following the russian policy of persecution, torture and forced labour of its citizens. the example of poland and other countries that have successfully liberated themselves from the moscow sphere of influence shows that this can only be achieved by defending with all our strength human and civil rights, that national solidarity of post-soviet countries can only be built when we are in solidarity with every persecuted person and every exploited worker.
madam president! if we want the european parliament to play a real role in matters such as the protection of human rights, we must be clear and very precise. mep zeller said that it was not an urgent matter, but since we had already decided to deal with the issue of uzbekistan - i understand that this was the decision of the conference of group chairs - we should talk about it very precisely. i fully support the demand that the names of persecuted and imprisoned persons be included in the resolution and, if that is not possible at the moment, that they be included in the letter from the president of the european parliament to the uzbek authorities. it is a very concrete and dramatic issue, such as the situation of political prisoners, torture and child labour. on 18 november, a meeting of the european external action service with the uzbek authorities will take place. i expect it to be specific, we will get a report from this meeting and we will come back to this issue, in order to be both systematic and precise.
madam president! i would like to support the text of the european parliament resolution condemning the perpetrators of the kidnapping of 43 innocent students in mexico. we are dealing with a scandalous, painful act of violence in the state of guerrero that cannot be tolerated. any suspicion of local authorities' links with organised crime should be carefully investigated, as corruption and criminal links with the police have no place in a state governed by the rule of law. the increasingly violent activities of drug cartels and gangs, which feel they can get away with it, must be tackled. mexico is a key partner of the european union and i therefore call on the high representative for foreign affairs to work closely with president enrique peña nieto to clarify this matter as soon as possible, to punish those responsible and to redress the damage caused to the victims and their families.
in writing. this is not the first time that the european parliament has expressed concern about the escalation of violence and has strongly opposed the trafficking of human beings by drug cartels in mexico. criminals in this country seem to feel they get away with it. and yet mexico is a party to international human rights treaties, a strategic partner of the european union in enhanced cooperation to achieve the highest standards in the protection of individual freedoms and rights. it's time to give our full support to the mexican government, which has shown a commitment to improving the security of the country. the relevant agencies of the union and mexico should cooperate in the fight against organised crime and ensure the rule of law. it is a democratic state and its citizens need our help to ensure that justice is upheld and that fundamental freedoms and human rights are respected. but the case that has so moved us recently needs an impartial and thorough investigation. i am sure that independent international experts should be involved. every effort should be made to identify, arrest and bring to justice the perpetrators of these crimes. it is also our duty to provide all possible support to the victims of this tragedy and their families.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 374/2014 on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine. by doing so i lent my continuing support to ukraine as it continues its struggles with the russian federation. i feel it is important to assist the ukrainians in their efforts to distance themselves from russia. this vote will significantly assist not only the ukrainian government but also its citizens in allowing them to obtain the goods and services they need while at the same time helping to minimise spending. moreover, i agree completely with the rapporteurʼs comments that: ʽwhile that tendency is very important for ukraine and its businesses, the economic impact of the increase of ukrainian exports for the eu, given the asymmetry in economic terms between the two trading partners, is bound to be very small. in addition, the trade concessions reflect the balanced outcome of the negotiations with ukraine in the context of the dcfta, and have been carefully determined to provide adequate levels of protection to sensitive sectors in the eu, while at the same time facilitating trade with ukraineʼ.
madam president, in this debate we have to answer some fundamental questions. the first one is about the legality of the measures imposed by some individual member states, and here we have heard a reassurance from president juncker that those measures applied by the luxembourg government were perfectly legal. i am very happy to hear this, but on the other hand, if this is the case, then we have to ask ourselves another question: how is it that those measures have raised so much concern and even outrage among european citizens? this is something we cannot ignore as lawmakers here in this house. therefore i call on the commission to work on this in order to increase transparency in all those measures, and also to make sure that discrimination is avoided. because if this measure is a result of obscure negotiations then of course it may raise the suspicion of citizens. if on the other hand it is restricted only to large multinationals, it again puts small and medium-sized enterprises in a disadvantaged position. so this definitely calls on us to amend european legislation in order to avoid those kinds of deficiencies. we all know that tax policies remain within the remit of national governments, but all tax measures which are applied, should be applied in full respect of non-discrimination and transparency.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you've said many right things about how the communist parties in central europe have seized public property, but just think about our nations that live there. do you not really think it is the height of cynicism to make it difficult for us to reduce vat on goods for families and small children, for example, when people who advocate tax harmonization are creating artificial incentives for investment in their own country? i think that's the height of cynicism, and i think you'll agree.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank mr caldeira, mr lazarou, who is present with us. i am pleased to see vice-president georgieva here, not for the first time at a hearing of the committee on budgetary control, but for the first time in the european parliament. i wanted to say that in the latest issue of the american weekly newsweek, there's this interesting map that shows what the main problems are on each continent. as far as europe is concerned, the second issue is youth unemployment, and this is where the european union is spending a lot of money. i'll be honest, i'm not sure these funds are being used properly. i have a feeling it's the opposite. it is important to say, ladies and gentlemen, and this report says it very well, that the financial management of the european union is still not good, and that there is a need to improve the way these funds are spent. the amount of debt is growing and will continue to grow. it is currently 322 billion euros, and since the 2014 budget provides for commitments in excess of payments, this debt will of course continue to grow. there is no significant improvement in the level of error in payments. it was a little under 5 percent and it's still there. i would point out that the two areas of spending most prone to error are regional policy and rural development. this is important because it is the poorer countries of the new union that benefit most. and that, of course, poses some risk for the future. i would like to thank the court of auditors once again for its work on this matter.
madam president, this will be the first budgetary discharge procedure seen by more than half of the new members and also by a new parliament. we also have, i may say, a brand new commission. so we must use the opportunity to deliver clear messages. we have to close the learning cycle, which some court members are now discussing, to get the continuous improvement we all simply need. this is all about serious work and application, not about grabbing headlines. error-free or clean expenditure is not an end in itself, it is very important but not nearly enough. eu money can be used entirely correctly according to the rules but it has to be well directed towards a clear objective – to deliver the growth and employment goals which are so important today. commissioner georgieva and the rest of the new commission must have the tools they need to measure the social impact and other results of eu programmes. member states and regional authorities are our partners in this, and have to ensure that every cent of european funding is well targeted. please remember: invest these means but do not spend these means. we need a debate on what constitutes good performance in different areas of allocation, therefore the interinstitutional working group on performance must involve players from the commission and from parliament, covering all key policy areas so we can quickly develop and implement a genuinely reliable concept of performance in the new funding programmes.
in writing. i welcome the report of the european court of auditors for 2013. it confirms that the court is a competent and independent institution which, like the supreme audit office in poland, examines the reliability and appropriateness of budgetary expenditure. the report shows that the eu budget spent €148.5 billion in 2013. this translates into an annual amount of 290 euros per eu citizen. the eu budget was mainly spent on regional policy, transport and energy (30.4%) and support for agriculture and markets (30.2%). it is worth noting that there are still concerns about the union budget. two of them are the most serious. first, the eu budget does not have enough money to finance all the expenditure, as the amount of unrealised invoices has already reached eur 24 billion. this undermines the credibility of the union and complicates the financial situation of many contractors. in this situation, the eu countries should increase their contributions to the eu budget much more quickly by making an in-plus adjustment. the second problem is the misuse of eu funds, as the abuses revealed show. the court's investigations show that these irregularities accounted for 4,7% of all expenditure in 2013. the court is right to draw attention to these negative aspects. the point is that the european commission and individual countries take the court of auditors' recommendations very seriously.
mr president, this resolution once again reminds us of the ever-present issue of an eu member state being occupied by a foreign country. the actions taken by turkey can only be viewed as a threat to the economic well-being of cyprus, and this is a clear violation not only of international law but also of the un charter and the convention on the law of the sea, which was established to prevent such actions and to preserve law and order, especially the claims of countries to specific bodies of water that fall within their domain. as turkey has given numerous examples of its disregard for the legitimacy of the republic of cyprus, this can only be viewed as yet another attempt to deny its existence. i stand here to support cyprus and condemn the continued actions of turkey.
in writing. turkey apparently ignores the existence of the republic of cyprus, as is once again confirmed by the navtex directive. since mid-october, a turkish vessel has been exploring for natural gas in the waters of cyprus under the same directive. are the turkish manoeuvres aimed at undermining the republic of cyprus' right to natural resources in its exclusive economic zone? if so, they must be seen as incompatible with international law. turkey is an important partner of the eu and a candidate for membership, so the continuation of this type of activity cannot take place. the turkish authorities should be urged to repeal the navtex directive and to respect the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) without delay. the international community expects turkey to cooperate for stability and peace in the eastern mediterranean, not to engage in provocative behaviour within the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus and the territory of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i support the european parliament's resolution because the situation in south sudan is extremely difficult and requires decisive action. according to the un, sudan is in a level three humanitarian emergency, which could destabilize the entire east african region. the ethnic dimension of the conflicts is particularly worrying. the authorities based on violence and ethnic divisions are contrary to the democratic principle of the rule of law and constitute a violation of international law. let's note that the economy of south sudan is oil, which accounts for 70% of gdp. the european union and its member states have already provided more than eur 250 million in aid, which represents more than one third of the total humanitarian aid. but let us remember that humanitarian aid alone, while necessary, will not solve all the problems, because it is the government of south sudan that should ensure the security of its citizens. to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe, the european union should support any action that will help improve the situation in the country.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 13 november 2014. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the humanitarian situation in south sudan is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges facing the international community today. as a result of the disputes between a small group of politicians, the sudanese have become victims in their own power game. as a result, south sudan is experiencing the world's worst food crisis, with more than half of its population going hungry and some 50,000 children dying if they don't get immediate help. the european commission and the member states of the european union have already committed a total of eur 245 million this year to help the most needy people in south sudan. this is undoubtedly a considerable sum, but given the scale of the problem in south sudan, it is only sufficient to cover the most urgent needs. the proper selection of beneficiaries is therefore particularly important in order to ensure that aid is as targeted and effective as possible and that it reaches those who need it most. unfortunately, with attacks on aid workers by both sides of the conflict, even well-targeted aid has trouble reaching its destination. it is therefore also necessary to implement all the terms of the ceasefire agreement and subsequently to end the conflict.
in writing. – as the issues in south sudan become ever so dire i would like to voice my continued support for the south sudanese people. the necessity of working with what remain of the humanitarian aid groups in the region, to make sure that the support gets to where it is needed most, is vital. while the resolution is very direct, i feel we must put a human face to the document. more than 10 000 people have died since december of 2013. many social services are no longer in operation, which has had the largest impact on children who are not able to attend schools and which the violence is heavily directed at. in addition, basic health care and clean water services are currently non-existent. further, the ever-so-apparent ethnic aspect of the conflict cannot be tolerated. the eu must support the sudanese through this conflict and reassure them that the safety and wellbeing of the people come first and foremost. we must not forget that this is a young country built, as we are, on democratic values, and while this conflict threatens those values it is important that they be protected and given the opportunity to prosper.
the next item is the joint debate on the statement by the commission on the amendment of protocol 31 to the eea agreement on cooperation in specific fields outside the four freedoms (31.3.2014, com (((2014) 197)) on the european union programme for employment and social innovation (easi) and the european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion (progress) (2014/2885 ((rsp))
mr. chairman, please! the inclusion of non-eu eea countries in the latest initiatives in the areas of social policy and the labour market seems to be most appropriate and worthy of support. but we should ask ourselves why these countries do not want to take full advantage of this opportunity. the particular concern must be their reluctance to join the programme for employment and social innovation. in principle, only iceland has expressed its willingness to participate in the programme, and norway has declared its participation in one of its axes. given that the programme is intended to develop innovative methods of tackling social problems, it is surprising that the eea countries are not interested in it, especially since they are doing relatively well in the areas of social policy and the labour market. they may therefore not see any added value in the eu programme, but only additional costs. it is therefore worthwhile to consider whether it has been constructed in a meaningful way, especially since programmes such as progress and eures have long been criticised for their low efficiency and no way has been found to improve their efficiency. nevertheless, the abstention of norway and liechtenstein - whatever the reason - should serve as a signal to us that the functioning of the employment and social innovation programme needs to be monitored on an ongoing basis and that its mechanisms need to be modified as necessary. on the other hand, with regard to the changes to the eu-switzerland agreement, i would ask the european commission what it will propose in the light of the swiss referendum in february on the introduction of maximum amounts for immigrants. there was initial talk of excluding switzerland from programmes such as erasmus and horizon 2020. but what are the specifics for today? what is the situation with the agreement on the free movement of persons between croatia and switzerland? is the union's position sufficiently firm on the internal market freedoms that switzerland de facto enjoys? commissioner, i wish you much, much success with this difficult dossier.
the commission has already taken a number of measures. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you very much for the warm welcome i have received here as a new commissioner in the house where i have enjoyed working for so many years. i am also grateful to you, of course, for the fruitful debate we have had and for the welcome you have given to the european programmes progress and easi, to the free movement of workers and the coordination of social security, and to the fact that we want to share these things with people from the efta countries too. i have also heard some remarks, a comment on the agenda in this parliament. why are we discussing this here? well, that is a consequence of the interinstitutional agreement between the commission and parliament. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this matter. secondly, there was also criticism here that these agreements would extend the rights and freedoms of certain persons. i have to deny that, because there are no new rights being granted in these agreements. so that needs to be corrected. then there was the question of the timing of these changes. the timing seems to be too late, according to some colleagues, including our dutch colleague jeroen lange. but the agreement is that the incorporation of the legislative act into those international agreements should take place as soon as possible after they have entered into force in the european union. so i think that timing can still be considered to have been respected. a number of comments were also made on the free movement of persons and the referendum in switzerland. i think that discussion goes beyond the subject of this evening's debate, but i can assure you that the commission will come regularly to the foreign affairs committee to inform the colleagues of the european parliament about the relationship with switzerland on this subject and that the commission is prepared to continue to do so in the future. then a few remarks have been made on the judgment delivered yesterday by the court of justice in which it replied to a question for a preliminary ruling on the application of german law. that is also outside the scope of this debate. in any event, i would ask the honourable members to interpret this judgment of the court correctly. the court has said that germany is indeed entitled to deny certain people certain social protection benefits in the circumstances which are clearly defined in the judgment. but this is such a delicate question that i recommend that everyone read that ruling carefully. it is in any case a judgment which respects the free movement of persons and which gives an interpretation, a review of a piece of german legislation. i thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for all the comments that have been made. you can be sure that the european commission will continue to implement the programmes mentioned here, progress and easi, as well as, of course, the free movement and coordination of social security regulations, as efficiently as possible. i would just like to reply to the question from mrs jazlowiecka, who asked why some of the efta countries do not participate in certain parts of the programmes. well, mrs jazlowiecka, norway has announced that it will join the other part of the programme very soon and liechtenstein has decided not to participate in all of it, purely and simply for financial reasons. the efta countries are expected to contribute to the financing of the programmes, just as the european union countries do, if they participate in them. and liechtenstein considered that this was not appropriate at this time for financial reasons.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. an important issue in today's debate is the issue of 'replacement' or 're-qualification' of teachers who have been made redundant as a result of the reduction in school enrolments due to the demographic decline of children. sometimes teachers over 60 do not meet the expectations of children and young people for health reasons (physical education teachers) or because of the use of increasingly modern computer technologies to which young people adapt immediately (computer science teachers). a programme of employment for unemployed teachers should be prepared, drawing on their specialised skills and professional experience in service positions for children or elderly people requiring special care or supervision. the ageing population of europe will require such a programme. as regards innovation, teachers should be involved in continuing education and training programmes to be able to influence the creativity of pupils.
in writing. in the context of the debate on the amendment of protocol 31 to the eea agreement on cooperation in the field of free movement of workers, coordination of social security systems and measures to assist migrants, including migrants from third countries, i draw attention to the need to respect the principle of free movement of workers. this key principle, which more than half of eu citizens consider to be the greatest achievement of european integration, has recently become too often the subject of national political games. such actions undermine the credibility of the eu project and create anti-migrant sentiment among local communities. it is also important to emphasise that immigrants not only do not overburden social security systems, but they mainly contribute to the economic growth of the country of immigration. we also have to bear in mind that there are over 2 million job vacancies in the union, so mobility, especially in regions with labour shortages and skills mismatches, is essential for their development. action to ensure that union citizens benefit from the principle of free movement is also crucial. almost half of migrant citizens complain of administrative obstacles related to the lack of knowledge of eu law on free movement among local government employees. europe needs growth and jobs. so instead of undermining the principle of free movement, we need to focus on fighting unemployment and stimulating investment that will create jobs.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! i would also like to take this opportunity, like my colleague mrs von storch, to commemorate today's anniversary. president schulz said that in 1989 it was about returning to europe and that it was a victory for the desire for freedom. i just want to remind you that it was also the desire for prosperity and that it was what contributed to the fall of communism, the absurd economic system that condemned people to misery. well, this return to europe turned out to be different than people had expected. we all know that prosperity is only for some, and the polish workers of "solidarity" did not foresee that their workplaces would disappear and not be modernized. people in central and eastern europe still vote with their feet, and for many, "exit" is the most important political option. the blühende landschaften, which wolf biermann recently mentioned, did not originate in central and eastern europe, but may have originated in the former gdr. i would like to recall this and link it to the debate on free movement of people, migration, social rights. those who only pay attention to the consequences of immigration to their own countries, forget the benefits their countries get from the opening of the market in central and eastern europe, and how the workers, the workers in these countries are treated by their companies, which contribute to the growth of their wealth. we should see both sides of the coin, and i think this 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall should be a cause for deeper reflection.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
mr president, today we will give the green light to the moldovans’ european choice, but the fate of moldova is still not certain. our neighbourhood – ukraine, hesitating; georgia… – is a neighbourhood on fire. this is the context of this ratification also. russia has been trying to deter moldova from its european choice by applying energy sanctions, trade sanctions and probably forthcoming banking actions to counteract their choice. moldova is a special country, a small country as was said, but the best performing. it has the oldest frozen conflict, in the form of transnistria, and it is the most vulnerable country and at the same time, as i said, the best performer. it deserves to get from our side the biggest support and assistance we can afford. the threat i mentioned consists of further pressures from russia, so it is very important that not only this ratification today, but also further actions, will accompany our neighbour moldova on this european road. we must strengthen this relationship further and this ratification should be completed not only by the trade and visa facilitation, which is now under way, but also by strengthening the energy partnership, by strengthening the independence of moldova in terms of energy security. now those relations between us and moldova will be institutionalised; the final choice will be made by the moldovan people in their free elections, and we wish the best of luck for their european choice.
mr. speaker, mr. speaker of the parliament of moldova, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the elections. we are taking a very important step today, reaffirming the commitment we made to moldova and georgia almost a year ago in vilnius, and we hope that the commitment made to ukraine later, but equally firm, will also be fully implemented by the member states of the european union. the moldovan society a sovereign state is a society with full right to choose its path in accordance with international law and its civilizational heritage. i welcome moldova to the family of european states. we're on your side. we are convinced that the peace and tranquility of one nation cannot be built at the expense of the freedom of others. the moldovan people made a courageous choice despite the pressures, the pressure and the threats of destabilisation. we should support it.
mr president, we will vote for the resolution but i do not understand why romania does not simply incorporate moldova, saving us the problem of negotiations. historically, the present republic of moldova is bessarabia, it is half of moldova, the other half of moldova is one third of the romanian republic, and this would just be bringing about moldovan reunification. of course, the free people of moldova can vote for unification in a referendum, just as the free people of crimea voted to join the russian federation. moreover, i think the european union should be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! i don't think like you two gentlemen did a moment ago. today's ratification is also a milestone for the eastern partnership as a whole. this is politically important before the parliamentary elections, which i hope will decide moldova's pro-european and pro-reformist path. joining the union means a series of reforms. moldova is ready to do so, as exemplified by the development of visa liberalisation rules, which has resulted in 300,000 moldovans visiting europe since april this year. but we must also remember our european obligations to moldova. this means showing that the benefits for the moldovans will start not only after joining the union, but already now. we need to weaken russian propaganda, where it intimidates europe. this means helping to implement projects using the european neighbourhood instrument to invest in infrastructure and the economy, in the development of small businesses and digital start-ups, but also to develop modern, transparent relations between the state and citizens and to support civil society and an independent judiciary. this means supporting projects to reduce moldova's dependence on russian gas. this means developing economic cooperation, making good use of open trade gates to reduce dependence on the russian economy, including in the labour market, so that moldovans do not have to work on such a scale in russia. this means a leap forward in erasmus+ youth exchanges, but also an opening up to cooperation in science because these are the foundations of modern development in the framework of projects and measures of the neighbourhood policy well led by an experienced commissioner like commissioner hahn. all these actions are necessary for today's ratification to bring about further milestones in moldova's european-oriented development. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the answer is the blue card. i think that opening up the visa system is necessary, and solving the problems of transnistria is another task that moldova has to cope with with the support of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to say a few words to all those who oppose the deal with moldova. the fact that moldova wants to sign this agreement shows that the european union is an organisation capable of expansion, and that expansion is different from that of russia, that the european union attracts others. russia, of course, is also pulling in, but it's doing it with tanks and missiles. the union does this through its economy, its democratic state system, although perhaps not necessarily through culture, because i don't think that the decisive argument for the moldovans to join the eu is the recently promoted bearded lady. in any case, the union is still attractive, more attractive than russia. this is something to be welcomed and endorsed, even at the cost of a deal with moldova. the price paid by the union is certainly lower than the price paid by russia.
mr. chairman, please! moldova deserves this agreement not only because it is the best in implementing its economic and social changes, but above all because it has social support in this matter as well. ratification before the parliamentary elections in moldova not only stabilizes the region, although not everyone is obviously happy about it, but also gives trade preferences. we stress that the effects of economic change have also allowed for a relatively higher per capita income, as commissioner hahn has also mentioned. the support of this association agreement and the free trade area agreement in parliament is an important signal that it also supports this country in its efforts to change. these signals are crucial to the direction moldova will take after the parliamentary elections on 30 november. mr. speaker of the parliament of moldova! we're going to give you a clear message. although it is difficult to make these changes, to reform the country, you must persevere. this is also the polish experience, it wasn't always easy. we are responding specifically to the reforms in moldova. since april, more than 300,000 people have benefited from the visa-free travel that moldova was granted as the first of the partnership countries about the same number of moldovans working in russia. i would like to stress that we also need support for the policy of cooperation with local governments. i think that commissioner hahn, who is on his first visit to moldova, has a particular experience here of how local governments can support this process of economic reform. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm not going to destroy european farmers, but i also want to say that it wasn't the european union that imposed the embargo, it was russia. all these demands should be directed at those who break the rules of trade agreements. i also want to say that it reminds me a little of the time 20 years ago when poland applied for membership of the european union on 8 april 1994. at that time, too, some circles, such as yours, made similar demands to poland and polish farmers, saying that they would distort competition and that they would also cause the collapse of the european union. after 10 years of poland's membership in the european union, it seems to me that nothing has happened that polish farmers in solidarity with other farmers in the european union are also overcoming the difficulties that the situation creates, including the russian embargo.
mr. speaker, mr. speaker of the parliament of moldova, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the elections. this is a day of european solidarity. the ratification of the association agreement with moldova opens the door to europe to a brave society that wants to live in freedom, away from the pressure of russia. i would like to congratulate commissioner hahn and negotiator gunnar wiegand on their assertiveness, their consistency and their good work. i would like to say a few words about this moment of shame that we have experienced here, about the voices that represented the "foreign party", in de gaulle's language. there were some more or less intelligent voices expressing the interests of putin's russia. i must say it very frankly: the voice of moscow has been heard in this room. (applause) it's very characteristic that both the far right and the communist groups have expressed this voice. i regret very much that he fell on the french side as well. we have to go the other way. the path that john paul ii once set out. 26 years ago, in strasbourg, he said that europe must expand beyond its own history and geography. i hope that this open door to europe is the door that moldova will one day walk through and moldovan mps will sit with us in this room. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. (...) with a voice similar to the one margaret thatcher once had she certainly represented a mature rather than childish political tradition. mr. ambassador, we do not have a colonialism complex, we do not accuse the european union of colonial tendencies. you must have some sort of colonial complex. we want europe to be a house of solidarity, a house of partnership, a house of selflessness, a house that is not only present in the south but also in the east.
mr. chairman, please! today we're going to talk about the moldovan association. it's a long way from association to membership. as mr. mushroom mentioned, it took poland 10 years. so any opinion that says that this is about membership at this moment is simply deliberately misinformation. the run-up to the elections is a political moment for moldova. this is also an important moment for moldova because of the sanctions imposed by the russian side. therefore, we should be clear: we appreciate all the positive things that are happening in the republic of moldova. in particular, we welcome the signing of the agreement on the horizon 2020 framework programme. we welcome the creation of a national energy efficiency action plan. we appreciate the statement by the prime minister that moldova intends to apply for membership of the european union. finally, we appreciate the effective implementation of human rights. but we all know moldavia still has a long way to go. i think commissioner hahn, as an experienced man, knows this very well and i congratulate him on one of his first cases being moldova.
mr. chairman, please! moldova is another country on the eu's eastern border with which we are strengthening political and economic ties, after ukraine. this year marks the 25th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain, which divided europe for over four decades. we cannot allow our continent to be divided again into a europe of free countries and a europe of countries subject to eastern power. the swift ratification of the association agreement will therefore send a clear signal to the authorities in chisinau and to the moldovan people but also to moscow that we are taking our commitments seriously. most importantly, we should reaffirm the hopes of the moldovan people for a better future with the european union. i therefore call for a vote in favour of ratifying the association agreement between the european union and moldova.
in writing. - i voted to accept this report. the fund shall support a specific region or group in the event of events and their consequences independent of the behaviour supported. i think the next such request will be for support for workers laid off in poland in fiat factories because of the transfer of production to italy by decision of the then italian government.
in writing. – i have lent my support to the motion for a resolution on the northern ireland peace process. in doing so i sincerely hope that the situation in northern ireland will be managed and perhaps subdued. it would appear to me that the idea of violence of this level, in 2014, in the eu deserves our undivided attention and a clear path to resolve. in my vote i greatly hope that the international community will provide a platform for a solution as well as work with the eu in its efforts to address the conflict. in addition, i fully support the initiatives to bring all parties to the table for constructive discussions. it is vital that some sort of solution comes from these talks as it would pave the way for peace for northern ireland and her citizens. it is remains important that the eu’s peace programme, aimed at strengthening progress towards a peaceful and stable society and promoting reconciliation by assisting activities and projects which help to reconcile communities and contribute towards a shared society for everyone, succeeds in its efforts.
in writing. - moldova is currently the most pro-european of the eastern partnership countries and i am pleased that there is agreement in parliament that the swift ratification of the association agreement is crucial to strengthening our relations. the agreement will bring tangible economic benefits to both moldova and the union countries and will contribute to the modernisation of the moldovan economy and trade policy. the political pronunciation of the agreement is equally important. this is a clear signal that the union supports moldova's european choice of government and is particularly important ahead of the upcoming parliamentary elections in the country. however, if we are to pursue genuine, lasting integration of moldova into the union, we must promise more than just economic benefits not only to its authorities but above all to its citizens. the european union is a democratic community based on shared values and action at many levels, and this is our greatest strength. i therefore believe that cooperation with moldova should be developed not only at the highest level but above all at the regional level. cooperation between local authorities can contribute to building contacts, exchanging experiences and promoting democracy and supporting european integration in society.
in writing. - today's decision by parliament to ratify the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova is a milestone on the road to building a broad, democratic and fair europe. the efforts made by moldova in recent years to move closer to the eu in the form of aligning its rules and ratifying the association agreement as early as july 2014 are of great importance for both the economies and security of the two parties to the agreement, as well as for the success of the eastern partnership as a whole. the citizens of the entire region will benefit from cooperation, as the association agreement is in practice a deepened and comprehensive free trade area between the eu and moldova, thus providing access to new markets, flows of goods and investments, new opportunities for the movement of people, fuel for economies. visa-free travel has enabled 300,000 moldovan citizens to visit the eu, which is of great importance for trade, cultural and social exchanges. closer ties with europe also mean more freedoms for moldovan citizens, who deserve democracy and respect for human rights just as much as european citizens. the eu's ratification of the association agreement on the eve of the elections in moldova is a sign of the european union's solidarity and openness to enlargement and cooperation. it stands in contrast to russia's methods of 'encouraging' cooperation and extending influence. i am confident that the elections in moldova will confirm the need to counterbalance russian influence by opening up to a democratic eu.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. by doing so i hope that the trade relations between the two parties will both be positively impacted. i feel that the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with the eu will benefit both sides involved. as is stated in the recommendation ‘the dcfta will create new opportunities for trade and economic growth and will benefit moldovan businesses and citizens directly, whereas the eu will benefit from smoother commercial flows and better investment conditions in moldova. the dcfta includes several provisions aiming at reforming moldova’s trade and trade-related policies, in line with, and on the basis of, the eu acquis. this will provide for the modernisation of the economy, anchoring of eu investment in the country, and better and more predictable policy environment’.
in writing. - i voted to pass a resolution on the situation in south sudan. the wave of violence and casualties that we are again facing in south sudan is reaching a scale that calls for our urgent and decisive intervention. the first key is to engage in diplomatic efforts to put political pressure on the leaders of the ethnic communities to force them to make a political compromise as soon as possible. otherwise, the situation in south sudan risks further escalation of violence, which could ultimately lead to the collapse of this youngest and poorest state and a humanitarian catastrophe on a massive scale. already, the conflict has claimed 1.5 million lives and forced more than 400,000 people to flee their homes. the second issue is the need to increase humanitarian aid to the local community and to the countries that provide aid and host refugees. humanitarian organizations are urgently appealing for food and health assistance. further financial support is also needed to combat extreme poverty and inequality. i also draw attention to the need for education and training to improve the protection and quality of life of the inhabitants. south sudan has one of the highest illiteracy rates in the world. the focus should therefore be on basic education, health and hygiene education and training that will prepare the local community to work.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to ask for the inclusion of the very item you mentioned, concerning the blatant - i repeat - blatant irregularities in local government elections in poland and the associated threat to democracy, which is, in my view, the greatest since 1989. i call on the european commission to make a statement on this subject, together with a debate and a resolution by the european parliament. the elections in poland were not held in accordance with the standards adopted by the european union and the osce. during the electoral process, there were various incidents that pointed to irregularities. public unrest has led to the resignation of the entire national election commission. the official results, which were not announced until six days later, are in stark contrast to the exit polls, with voters protesting in large numbers, convinced that the elections were not conducted in a fair manner. i think that in dealing with democratic processes in other countries outside the european union in this room, we should also be aware of the standards that are at stake in the union itself.
mr president, i have a list here of the standards specified by the oecd – the conditions and the criteria for democratic elections. what happened in poland is in blatant contrast with what i have here. i urge you to conduct a thought experiment. imagine that, in your country, 20 – and sometimes 40 – per cent of votes are invalid. imagine that, in the middle of the electoral process, the entire national electoral committee resigns. according to you, would that be compatible with democratic standards? if you think it is compatible with democratic standards, then vote against it. if you think there might be a problem here, please support us.
i am opposed to this proposal because it is an attempt to bring the polish-polish political debate to the european level, even if we speak different languages. the polish-polish debate is our internal affair. firstly, we did have a computer system failure in poland, secondly, i would like to point out that the electoral process in poland is ongoing and thirdly, we have procedures that allow cases to be decided by independent courts. i move that the motion that has been filed be dismissed. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i will not be speaking about the personal virtues or vices of the authors of this motion because i do not know the authors of this motion or their intentions. i am not interested in that. what i will be speaking about is the juncker problem. there is such a thing as the juncker problem. president juncker, let us admit that you did not make a good start. moreover, i am not quite satisfied with what you said last time, and i am not utterly convinced by what you said today. if you will pardon the expression, i did not have the feeling that you have any pangs of conscience at all. it is a rare thing in politicians, but sometimes it is quite possible. but one thing must be clear enough. we really need full information about the special tax agreements and all the possible ramifications. when i said we need it, i meant ‘we’ meaning the european peoples – the peoples of europe against whom these agreements were directed, including my own country, which lost several billions of euros as a result of the unethical ingenuity of the leaders of luxembourg. that is not a minor issue. when i say ‘we’, i also mean the meps, the majority of whom voted for you not long ago. it is also good for you, president juncker. you need it yourself because, whatever you do as president of the commission, the shadow of this scandal will follow you with your name attached to it until the matter is settled once and for all. who should do the investigating and the explaining? of course, primarily the authorities of luxembourg and independent international bodies, and forums such as the oecd. but i must say that i feel somewhat uneasy about the commission with you, president juncker, at its helm investigating the case. i do not know about you, but i personally feel deeply attached to the old roman principle nemo iudex in causa sua: no one is to be a judge in his own case. i believe the old roman principle is sacred, and we cannot violate it unless we want to make a laughing stock of ourselves. it is utterly unacceptable to seize this opportunity to go ahead with the plan for tax harmonisation – not now, if ever at all, not under this pretext, not in the state the eu is in now, and certainly not with the commission under your leadership. (applause)
member of the commission. - mr president, i welcome this timely report and thank mr stier as rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on development for their efforts in putting together a clear set of messages for the post-2015 agenda. this is indeed a very valuable contribution that will help shape the eu’s position on this important issue. the global debate on the sustainable development goals represents a profound shift in the way the world thinks and acts in international development. i warmly welcome parliament’s active engagement in this important political discussion, which resonates widely with the public. today 1.2 billion people still live in extreme poverty. the geography and demographics of poverty are changing. for instance, new actors, emerging economies and private foundations are coming forward, some of them donors in their own right. new conflicts and demands for better governance are reshaping parts of the world. our planet’s natural resources are in decline and the impacts of climate change and biodiversity loss are becoming close to irreversible. this is why, when addressing parliament as commissioner-designate about two months ago, i made it absolutely clear that an ambitious post-2015 development framework is my top priority. the millennium development goals have been enormously helpful in guiding our development efforts since 2000, but we need a new agenda to meet the new challenges before us today: an agenda that includes all three dimensions of sustainable development – social, economic and environmental – in an integrated and balanced manner; an agenda that addresses inequalities and takes a human rights-based approach. the universality principle is a profoundly important feature of this new framework. universality means that the new framework will apply to all countries of the world, while taking into account national contexts, capacities and levels of development. it also means that the new goals will have far-reaching implications for the eu institutions and for member states’ domestic policies. i invite parliament to continue proactively to engage in this important agenda, not only from the development perspective but across all the relevant policy areas. i believe this report is a helpful contribution to a stronger eu position, and i hope it will also help engage our citizens, mobilise support for sustainable development and demonstrate the benefits of working together in shaping our common future. i look forward to our debate today and to continuing our dialogue in the months ahead.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i support this high quality report by mr stier because it presents in a comprehensive way the possibilities for dealing with the welfare of people in developing countries. i agree that it is the fight against poverty that should remain the priority of the post-2015 development agenda. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i cannot fail to stress the importance of access to quality education, since it is knowledge that is often the decisive factor in the development of individuals and the hope of lifting them out of poverty. nor can we ignore the issues of human rights and the rule of law and social justice, which are directly linked to each other, since only equal access to employment, education and other benefits for all is possible for the sustainable development of a particular region. it is therefore important to maintain the un's proposed sustainable development goal 16, which calls for the promotion of a peaceful, integrated society, the rule of law and the effective functioning of state institutions. i also agree with the statement that local authorities cannot be deprived of their powers, since they know the needs of their citizens best. i call on the council and the member states to adopt a single and coherent eu position in the december council conclusions. member states must be firm on the main provisions but flexible on details that may divide them, without compromising the common union position that is necessary to maintain the union's leadership in the negotiation process. thank you, sir. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. we certainly need to support, and the most important thing is to support these small and medium-sized enterprises, because as we know from the report on developing countries, it is these enterprises that are more than 90% of the development opportunities in these regions, in these countries. i am in complete agreement with mr rübig on this point. i think that's the main factor we should be realizing.
the european union declares its objectives to ensure technologically advanced economic development, to build a knowledge-based society and to combat social exclusion and poverty. these objectives of the millennium agenda should be pursued at the global and local levels. this last local aspect requires special attention, since planning for economic growth and taking legislative and administrative action cannot ignore social conditions. the policies of the european bureaucracy have led to the deindustrialization of the south and east of the european union, increased social inequality and poverty, and above all, unprecedented levels of labour migration. as a result of this policy, and with the government's help, 2.5 million people have left my country in search of work. implementation of eu policies has resulted in the loss of thousands of jobs. this has been particularly the case in the maritime economy area, which should be a pillar of knowledge and innovation, creating jobs and development opportunities for the young generation. the rebuilding of industry, and above all the maritime economy, is therefore essential to return to sustainable development and to combat poverty and social exclusion. i therefore call on the commission to draw up a comprehensive programme to rebuild the economy, including the maritime sector, so that all regions, including the polish west pomerania, which are most affected by the current harmful policy, have a chance to develop. thank you, sir. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - the honourable member! in recent years, the european union has eliminated many jobs. ask the countries of southern europe or eastern europe who was behind the policy. in many cases, these moves have resulted in unprecedented mass emigration. it was partly the european union and its bureaucratic politics that contributed to such a disastrous policy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. last year, after three years of negotiations, we concluded work on a package of new regulations for cohesion policy, thus entering the next programming period. armed with the instruments of the european union's largest investment policy, we have embarked on a new budgetary perspective. its main objective should be to stimulate economic growth, sustainable development and reduce the disparities between the richest and poorest countries and regions of the european union. this is the basis of the philosophy of european cohesion policy. however, it is clear that the countries and regions are now experiencing serious delays in the launch of the programmes for the years 2014-2020, which, i admit, is causing increasing concern. the experience of 2007-2013 when the procedures for reconciling documents took a very long time should be a sufficient warning for all of us. it is important that member states maintain a balance between the developed and the poor regions of the european union in the operational programmes they propose. in my country, poland, it's like that with the eastern poland programme, among other things. i would like to thank the commissioner very much for the words he said during his last visit to my country, that the polish government should pay much more attention to the regions of eastern poland, one of the poorest regions in the european union. this is a significant difference in approach to the problems facing eastern europe, such as lack of access to transport, migration, poverty and high unemployment. i believe that poland is so reshaping projects under the various operational programmes that a large part of them will go to the eastern regions of my country.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we are aware that the inquiry is not critical but is intended to be process-oriented, a kind of "facilitator". we are aware, first of all, that the regulations have introduced rather complicated procedures. i'm talking about the relationship between the partnership agreement and the operational programs. on the other hand, the 2015 budget is being discussed, which unfortunately does not end well so far. i would like to ask the commissioner to use this question as a pretext for the european commission to provide more information on the programming process. in fact, there is a growing feeling across the union that the european commission is deliberately slowing down certain actions. he's slowing down because he doesn't have the money to pay the bills. it is therefore important to be very precise and accurate about the programming process, because in particular the beneficiaries will interpret your behaviour as being intentional. i would ask that you understand the question and give me all the information.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. control of international trade in products that may be used for two purposes is a very difficult task nowadays. this is not only facilitated by the ease, despite the many barriers, controls and supervision of trade, but above all by the development of research, techniques and technologies which are intended to be very universal and whose actual destination and use depend on the users. another point worth noting is the growing share of small and medium-sized enterprises in international trade. it's a very beneficial process. indeed, companies in this sector are an important basis of economic systems. therefore, they should not be burdened with excessive controls and red tape. ladies and gentlemen! respect for freedom and the building of international security require the establishment of rules and specific procedures for a modern and effective system of control over trade in dual-use goods and technologies so that these products are not used for unlawful repression against citizens or aggression against other states or peoples. all of this must also apply to modern scientific thinking, research and development. however, these measures must be taken with care so as not to undermine the economic development of the european union countries, the competitiveness of europe and the important internationalisation of our small and mediumsized enterprises. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not going to tell you. countries such as the united states, canada, morocco have also included space technology in the sanctions regime imposed on the russian federation. the union decided otherwise. our sanctions program does not include the european space program, which has resulted in the airbus commercial satellites of the galileo program being launched into earth orbit three times this year by russian proton and soyuz rockets. and they were flown in a compromising manner, in one case they crashed into the ground, in the other two they were flown into the wrong orbits. do you think, commissioner, that the fault lies with the legislative weaknesses of the dual-use export control system or with the lack of solidarity or political will of the member states in relation to russia's aggression against ukraine?
mr president, unfortunately the misuse of dual-use items, especially software and technology, may contribute to hostile military agendas and the funding of weapons production, as well as human rights abuses. as we know, more and more cases of repression carried out by authoritarian governments using eu-made technology contributed to recent updates of the wassenaar arrangement control list. this lays the groundwork for closing possible loopholes in the rules governing trade in these technologies. the updating of existing legislation and its thorough implementation is much needed. to ensure proper use of these goods, the european union must control the export, transit and brokering of dual-use items as a key instrument contributing to international peace and security. it is in our own interest to safeguard eu-made software and technologies so they are not diverted from their legitimate use and to ensure that the eu’s digital infrastructure and strategic interests are duly safeguarded. the european union is an important actor in this field internationally. as a guardian of democracy and human rights, it is particularly important in view of the policy-making and legislative role it plays in the field of trade across its member states. according to recent studies, international efforts to control the trade in dual-use goods are outdated and need to be updated in order to keep up in the modern world.
mr. chairman, please! small and medium-sized enterprises can play a huge role in the recovery of the european economy. europe needs a new entrepreneurial spirit, including digital tools because it means lower costs and better access to customers. it'll bring in new jobs. but they can't be held back by the old and new bureaucratic burdens of a new wave of entrepreneurship. therefore, their impact on small enterprises should not be excluded from the regulatory impact assessment system. it is therefore necessary to revise and clarify the specific guidelines for assessing the impact of regulation, to describe precisely the burden test for small firms and to better define the functions, tools and possible initiatives of the independent impact assessment board, which is part of the overall process. what does independence mean? the quality of external experts also nominated by parliament but operating to the same standards and in cooperation with the commission. this must be done together: the commission, the member states and parliament. parliament is important because it can support comprehensive solutions, and it can also have its experts on the better regulation advisory board. on the other hand, it can help to remove the burden on small firms in individual countries. but to do that, we need our resolution and implementation with concrete proposals to not only improve conditions for small businesses, but to implement smaller and then better regulations for the whole economy.
rapporteur. – madam president, this is my supplement to the previous statements to shed light on the content and context of the request for the urgent procedure to amend the regulation on own resources. as parliament has stated, the real emergency is to address the dramatic shortfall of payments in the european budget in order to meet the legal obligations of the european union. as for the own resources decision, this was the unanimous decision of the member states, with revisions which mean overpayment for some and underpayment for other member states. so far, all the member states are ready to deliver what they should, in due time and in the full amount. this is a paradox. we are asked for an urgent procedure for the benefit of one or two countries and also for flexibility – there was never flexibility – and for a slow track in delivering what was needed to the european budget in order to solve the problems of the european budget. we are ready to do this – not on a fast-track basis, but in reasonable time and in the framework of the overall solution to the difficulties of the european budget. honouring the bills of our research institutions, regions and businesses is a matter of principle for parliament. the credibility of european union institutions is at stake.
this draft resolution stresses the importance of not forgetting the social aspects and the rights of social workers when designing economic strategies for the future. today, in the context of the crisis which has particularly affected the countries of southern europe, we are aware of how often basic social rights are violated, how often the poorest and most vulnerable are the ones who bear the costs of reforms. however, i would like to remind you that this has happened before, without causing the appropriate reaction, when the countries of central and eastern europe were making their transformation, integrating with the union. in connection with the visit of the holy father francis today, i would like to remind, and recommend to my colleagues on the left, the great encyclicals of his predecessor, john paul ii, laborem exercens, centesimus annus, sollicitudo rei socialis. if europe were built on this foundation, we would avoid many problems and injustices and we would not have to talk about the juncker system today. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! in the resolution we voted today, we have stressed the consequences of neglect in the field of employment and social policy. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new financial framework for the period 2007-13. social policy spending is temporary and, although necessary, does not make a long-term difference. it is social investment and forms of activation of excluded groups that are the expenditure that brings results and benefits, including financial, but it takes time. the problem is that in times of crisis, we don't make long-term investments. for example, we are not investing in ambitious education for young people, because it will only pay off in a decade. in times of crisis, we think here and now. we forget that the lack of social investment will lead not only to the loss of generations, but to a great impoverishment of european society. the growing problem of poverty is an example of the need to be aware that rapid economic growth does not reduce poverty, despite the common belief. those who have fallen into poverty need long-term action and help to get out of it, and economic growth no longer affects them because they are no longer within the reach of the wave of benefits and employment. we have many good examples in europe where responsible policies, particularly in the area of social activism, have led to a single digit unemployment rate and a low poverty rate. let's learn to learn from each other, let's learn to learn from others, adapting our ideas to our realities. this will enable us to implement more effectively the main foundation of our union's unity - the cohesion policy, which in the face of... (the president withdrew)
madam president! a word of appreciation to marita ulvskog for her report. (marita, very good work!) you made it very clear that development should be smart, but it's not, sustainable, but it's not, and inclusive, but it's not. what we are seeing is growing regional differences within the european union as well. the cost of living is levelling out, while aspirations for a higher standard of living are expanding, and income disparities are widening. the first factor is the waste contracts, the second is the differences in the quality of life, which also result in increased emigration, e.g. from poland, romania, greece, etc. the fact is, productivity is growing much faster than wages. i therefore join the call for youth employment, but let us also not forget the generation of 55+.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy lists among its objectives an increase in the employment rate to 75%. this will be difficult to achieve, as the value of this indicator has been hovering around 69% for several years, showing very weak upward trends. it is composed of 75% of the employment rate for men and 63% of the employment rate for women. there is thus a 12% employment gap between women and men, which in some member states is as high as 30% and is responsible for 40% of the gender pension gap in europe and poverty among older women. closing the employment gap, increasing the participation of women in the labour market is an effective way not only to achieve rapid economic growth, but also to achieve greater social justice in europe. recent years have shown that employment growth in the member states is mainly driven by the increase in the employment of women and that the implementation of the principle of gender equality is key to this process. women are statistically better educated and motivated to work than men but the barriers that block their access to the market must eventually be removed. gender equality needs to be promoted more effectively. nurseries, kindergartens, care homes, equal distribution of responsibilities in unpaid domestic work, closing the labour market gap are all necessary conditions for increasing the presence of women in the market and thus for smart and sustainable economic growth in europe.
in writing. – creating one european railway space is important to our economy. still, there are too many technical and administrative differences between the railways in europe – not mentioning the infrastructure bottlenecks we face at border crossings – such as between germany and poland. technical issues like different mobile equipment used by the railways in europe, such as pkk or sncf in france, create difficulties for locomotives to change from one ‘national’ railway system to the other. therefore i fully supported this convention and voted in favour. in order to create one european railway space we need to have the same technical standards for all of the european railways.
in writing. - i support the accession of the european union to the so-called railway protocol to the convention on international safety of mobile equipment. the main objective of the facility is to facilitate the financing of high-value rolling stock by providing a particularly strong international guarantee to creditors. the seller on credit (and the institutions providing credit for such sales) will be entitled to a security giving 'absolute priority' to such equipment entered in the newly established international register. it will be a system that guarantees the ability to search for established safeguards from anywhere in the eu using the internet, which means that the register will be available 24 hours a day. such an instrument will certainly bring great benefits and contribute to the development of the european railway industry, including the enterprises operating in the kujawsko-pomorskie region of poland, which are engaged in the production and repair of railway vehicles for rail transport.
in writing. - passenger name record in eu-canada relations is mainly concerned with air transport. the aviation sector (airports, airlines) is an important partner in the implementation of the provisions on the reasonable protection of personal data and fundamental rights in conjunction with the provision of counter-terrorist security.
in writing. - in recent years much has been done to achieve the millennium development goals set in 2000. unfortunately, in the face of global challenges such as armed conflict, poverty, climate change, natural disasters, economic crisis and many others, there is still a huge scope for further intensified action. the number of challenges facing development policy today is best illustrated by the new sustainable development goals, of which there are 17. the implementation of these will require concerted efforts by the european union and other donors, while respecting the principles of aid effectiveness. i also believe that it is important to use a wide range of aid instruments, including the combination of loans and grants, which can help to increase development finance. i also agree with the rapporteur that additional efforts should be made to eradicate hunger, especially among children. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - the start of the new ep term is the right moment to set global, unified development priorities and the direction eu policy should take. looking back at the millennium development goals set by the united nations in 2000, it makes perfect sense to do so: progress in the fight against certain diseases, and increased intergovernmental and interinstitutional cooperation are clear examples of the effectiveness of such declarations. discussions on the way forward have been intensified within the open working group on the sustainable development goals and the un intergovernmental panel of experts on sustainable development finance, and the position of the european commission, the eu council and the european parliament on the post-2015 agenda has been set out in a communication entitled 'a decent life for all'. the report by our colleague from the committee on development is the european parliament's contribution to creating a coherent, uniform framework for future action. these include, of course, such important issues as sustainable development, the elimination of social disparities, conflict prevention, adequate education and access to health care. however, sustainable agriculture and food security should not be forgotten, as these issues should be at the heart of any effort to eradicate poverty and improve the quality of life for all people on our planet.
in writing. the objective of the report on the eu and the global development framework after 2015 for which i voted is to set out a coherent eu development policy strategy for the period after 2015. the report is a step towards an ambitious development agenda based on broad international partnership in tackling issues of global concern such as poverty, access to education and healthcare, and gender equality. the union's development policy is strongly oriented towards the protection of human rights and the promotion of an inclusive model of economic development based on diversity, which is both effective and equitable. as a member of the femm committee, i am particularly supportive of the call for women's empowerment to be a priority area of development policy. the elimination of violence against women and harmful practices such as forced marriage, honour killings and female genital mutilation is a prerequisite for promoting gender equality. the report says that nothing - including elements of religion, culture or tradition - can justify violence, thus embodying the spirit of the universality of human rights, which is also the basis of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the development framework proposed by the ep also promotes equal opportunities in education and the labour market as part of a fair and economically beneficial development strategy.
in writing. - the eu has still not achieved the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on employment and poverty reduction. unemployment is 24% in some regions and as high as 51% among young people, and the problem is becoming more serious. since 2008, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased by 10 million, and the poverty rate among the disabled has increased by as much as 70%. the disparities between regions and member states in employment levels continue to grow. we still see a significant disparity in the employment of men and women. there is a lack of effective incentives to stimulate investment, especially in smes, which drive economic growth. we must also remember that higher investment alone will not guarantee better quality employment. therefore, a sensible reindustrialisation of the eu, which is essential for europe's global competitiveness, should be one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. financial and economic priorities should be balanced by social priorities. we need to connect the world of education to the world of work. it is also necessary to eliminate unnecessary administrative burdens for self-employed persons. but all of this, plus the most important tool of all, funding, is not enough. a number of regulations need to be prepared not only to reduce the risk of investing in smes and innovation, but also to ensure a safe start and functioning in the market, without the threat of conflicts in cases of various types of infringements. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - there is no doubt that, as we approach 2015, we are still a long way from achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the economic crisis, from which europe is still recovering, has contributed to an increase in unemployment, especially among young people, and to the deterioration of the economic situation of many citizens. i believe that if we are to find a solution to this situation and get closer to our goals, we must work in a multi-pronged way. actions to stimulate growth and new investment must go hand in hand with a thorough analysis of labour markets and the necessary reforms. the cooperation between science and business should be strengthened and the vocational training system should be developed consistently. preparing graduates well for work is as important as creating incentives for entrepreneurs. we must not forget that the labour market situation varies considerably between member states. they therefore need to adapt the eu-wide objectives of the strategy to their country's specificities. in addition, an effective system of monitoring progress, evaluation and recommendations should be in place.
in writing. - the difficult situation in the labor market forces us to act with extreme intensity. the situation is very difficult, especially for young people, women and people living outside the cities. we cannot just focus on creating economic growth. it is important that, alongside development, the emphasis be placed on the quality of jobs and respect for workers' rights. it is social groups such as young graduates and women who are most vulnerable to discrimination and exploitation at work. we should give them a range of rights so they can do their jobs with dignity. a flexible education system that responds effectively to the needs of the economy is essential for the development of the labour market and the implementation of the strategy. a system that will mobilize you to learn throughout your life and continually improve your skills. at the same time, it is important that the youngest ones receive a good education. action should therefore be taken to prevent discrimination in this respect against children from poor families or from peripheral areas or simply outside the big cities, as they are exposed to a lower quality of education and therefore a more difficult start to adulthood.
in writing. - i supported the report on employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy. europe 2020 is a key plan for growth and greater economic efficiency. its priority objectives include: increased employment and greater social cohesion. unfortunately, the evaluation of the achievement of these objectives is not satisfactory. in the area of employment, we continue to face high unemployment, particularly among young people. increasing social inequalities are an obstacle to achieving social cohesion. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the educational aspect as an instrument to reduce inequalities, increase opportunities in the labour market and combat social exclusion. i therefore hope that the new investment package will include education and training, as these are the only ways to contribute effectively to the objectives of the strategy. another issue is the promotion of entrepreneurship, especially smes. smes are the main source of employment in the eu and without their support it will not be possible to increase employment and thus achieve the strategy's employment target of 75%. to deliver effectively on the strategy, we also need to continuously monitor and coordinate our actions more effectively. we need results, new jobs and a more secure future for europeans, and i therefore call on the member states to commit themselves to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to openly cooperate and financially support eu initiatives in this regard.
in writing. on tuesday 25 november, the european parliament voted on a resolution on employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy. the europe 2020 strategy is the eu's initiative for sustainable, sustainable and inclusive growth. the resolution prepared by the committee on employment and social affairs is intended to help achieve the overarching objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. a number of the strategy's targets to be achieved by 2020 include: increasing the employment rate of citizens aged 20-64 by at least 75%, reducing the proportion of people leaving school early by 10%, increasing the proportion of people aged 30-34 with higher education, reducing the number of people living below the poverty line by 25% and increasing investment in research and development to 3% of gdp. it is in poland's interest to achieve the objectives and targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the commission resolution calls for concrete actions to help member states achieve the eu 2020 targets. the text of the resolution is fairly balanced, and i voted in favour of its adoption.
madam president! we all know the principle that the budget is politics translated into numbers. in fact, what is happening today between parliament, the council and the commission is a serious discussion, not of a technical nature, not just of finances, but of the future nature of the european union: what the union is to do, how it is to function, how the european budget is to function so that it is a balanced budget, how to approach investment. so this discussion, which from the outside may seem purely detailed and technical, is actually a very serious and political discussion. the moment a reconciliation is made, the question is: reconciliation between who and who? we thought it was a compromise between parliament and the council. it seems more and more that we are dealing with a conciliation between the members of the council. it is a conciliation before our eyes, when we sit and watch what is happening, the member states are having difficulty agreeing on positions among themselves. this is a very serious signal for the functioning of the european union as a whole. i would therefore like to make it clear that our budgetary debate is really a debate on the functioning of the european union.
madam president! the failure of the conciliation procedure on the draft budget for 2015 and the simultaneous request by the council to parliament for an urgent procedure on the reimbursement of the national budgets unfortunately indicate that the priority of the council is not to settle the outstanding accounts. the payment arrears have been increasing rapidly in recent years and amount to almost eur 30 billion at the end of 2014, which means that they are already at a level that threatens the liquidity of the union budget. in this context, parliament should firmly uphold its position vis-à-vis the council and the commission on the simultaneous adoption of the six amending budgets for 2014 and the budget for 2015. it is particularly important that the almost eur 5 billion in fines and penalties that have entered the union budget this year are not returned to member states' budgets but are allocated to settling the most urgent payments. it is also necessary to increase the level of payments in the 2015 budget by at least several billion euros compared to the council's proposal. finally, i would like to express the hope that the european commission, in the absence of funds to settle arrears, will not pursue a policy of rejecting payment requests from member states on any pretext, which is particularly important in 2015 the last year of the 2007-2013 perspective. thank you very much. thank you.
ladies and gentlemen! today, pope francis said here in the european parliament that forgetting god breeds violence. every human being has the inalienable right to dignity, and violence that attacks that very dignity is a very serious social problem. every day, women around the world experience physical, sexual, cyber, psychological violence. there are very high levels of violence in developing countries: gang rape, trafficking of women, murder of muslim women. europe is not free of violence either. we can't accept that. we must focus our efforts on every form and form of violence where women need it most. however, pushing for further legislation at european level will not solve the problem of violence. given that the member states of the union have extensive legislation in this area, which is in line with their needs, conditions and culture, there is no justification for multiplying legal solutions at european level. individual countries with legislation in this area should consistently comply with it. thank you, sir.
madam president! violence is a global scourge and a global disgrace that spares no country or continent. it is the result of long-standing discrimination against women, which continues to this day, and the fight against which is one of the european union's priority values and responsibilities. i therefore strongly support the idea of the european union joining the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women, because this convention is recognised by the international community as the gold standard for anti-violence policy and it properly treats prevention, rightly linking anti-violence policy with gender equality policy. ladies and gentlemen! the efforts we make in member states to combat violence require proper evaluation and monitoring, and this in turn requires access to comparable data that mean the same thing. the harmonization and standardization of data on violence, the standardization of methods of evaluating violence is a very important issue. i therefore ask the european commission to draw up a recommendation and, ultimately, perhaps a directive, which would standardise and harmonise the methods of assessing violence policy, because without this we will not be able to develop more effective methods of combating this cruel phenomenon.
mr. chairman, please! the pressure of migration will increase. the reasons lie in the differences in living standards, but also in the violation of freedom in countries of war and authoritarianism. europe will become an increasingly desirable destination for third country nationals. indeed, we must not allow the mediterranean to become a great graveyard, or symbolically the black sea, ever. the migration flows are a challenge, but they are also an opportunity for europe, both demographically and economically. this requires a comprehensive migration policy for the long term. this requires harmonisation of action so that no eu country is left alone in the face of migratory pressure and that everyone respects the values of the dignified treatment of migrants and asylum seekers. cooperation with third countries aimed at boosting their economies, mobility partnerships and resettlement programmes are therefore important. the question is: what action will the commission and the council take to develop cooperation with these countries, including through the instruments of the neighbourhood policy, in order to reduce the economic pressure of migration? the question is how to implement the common european asylum system effectively. how do member states ensure that the standards of the asylum package are met? what adjustments does the system require to ensure that fundamental rights are respected and that refugees are effectively integrated into the countries of europe? preparing a new framework for european migration policy is a key task today to... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. a communication summarising the workplace safety and health activities over the past few years shows that considerable progress has been made in this area. almost all member states have national osh strategies. the number of accidents at work has decreased, but the sense of safety of workers has increased. this is proof that cooperation between member states and the commission and coordination of actions can bring good results and have a positive impact on the safety of european workers. that doesn't mean we don't have some challenges ahead of us. i believe that the priority for 2014-2020 should be to simplify and harmonise osh legislation. this will make them quicker and easier to adopt and comply with. the easing of the rules is particularly important for small and micro-enterprises, which have fewer resources and therefore less ability to implement complex standards. the harmonised rules will also allow for the exchange of good practice and cooperation between countries, and facilitate access to eu funding.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! despite the significant successes achieved by the previous strategy on safety and health at work, many europeans still suffer and die in accidents at work. the importance of this risk is shown by the fact that more than 3 million people in the union suffer serious injury in the course of their work every year. this includes people suffering from so-called occupational diseases, the numbers of which we don't really know. the risks associated with work are largely the same in all member states and it is appropriate to take action at union level. although all workers deserve the same protection regardless of where they work and how big their employer is, it is not the quantity but the quality of the legislation that will be effective in this case. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. it seems more appropriate to focus on reviewing the existing rules, implementing the existing rules and promoting good practice. in the coming years, we should focus on small, medium and micro enterprises, as they are the ones where labour standards are most likely to deviate from the rules. however, this cannot be done at the expense of increasing the number of charges imposed. we should remember that it is small, medium and micro-enterprises that create the most jobs and that their development will help us to overcome the economic crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the recent financial crisis has led to a loss of confidence in the banking sector. it is essential to ensure such oversight and regulatory transparency in order to prevent situations that occurred before and during the crisis from occurring in the future. while the appropriate use and exchange of statistical information between different authorities is a key element, the protection of relevant confidential or sensitive information should be ensured. i agree in principle with the content of both reports and i think that the amendments proposed by parliament are well balanced, but i fear the political risk of shifting such important national competences to the level of the european union. however, as the registers are part of a much larger puzzle aimed at deep integration of the systems - and not just the financial systems - of the member states, i would like to emphasise my scepticism. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! if we're here until almost midnight, it means we're not indifferent to these things. we focus on the details of the european central bank's functioning, but the crisis we fear has its roots elsewhere - it has its roots in the very institutional essence of the european central bank. after all, the bank functions as the institution that controls the outflow of euro money. the effect is that inflation, or the depreciation of the euro currency, gives that central bank a profit in the amount of money it issues, while at the same time giving all users of that currency the same losses by depreciating that money, and that is the basis of the crisis. all national economies have kept their money in their budgets and in their national banks as long as they have used national currencies. and at the moment we are fattening up the giant parasite of europe, which is the cause of the crisis of europe, and we cannot, by analysing the details, lose sight of such an important factor which has held back our development. we should continue to develop and return to traditional national currencies. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. the proposed documents concern the ecb's powers vis-à-vis banks in the euro area. however, i would point out that the situation of these banks also affects the credibility of the banking system of countries which have not adopted the euro, because the european banking system is a system of interconnected vessels. i strongly support the ecb's increased supervisory powers over euro area banks. it seems to me particularly important to include in the special supervision all banks whose assets exceed at least eur 30 billion or represent at least 20% of the gdp in their countries. in practice, this will mean supervising 130 euro area banks. europeans need to be sure that these banks are operating legally, are professionally managed, and have liquidity. the serious problems of one of these banks would not only affect its headquarters but could also affect the situation of their branches in other countries. therefore, the ecb's additional supervisory powers over euro area banks are economically and socially justified.
in writing. in discussing the investment package, i would like to focus on two issues: innovation and education. innovation accounts for 60% of growth in the eu. president juncker's ambitious plan can only be realised if we invest in innovation at eu, national and local level. unfortunately, the major problem that is putting the eu's biggest innovation programme, horizon 2020, in question is the lack of funds for payments. if the current trend of payment constraints continues, 40% of the liabilities to the participants in the programme will not be settled by the end of 2020. another issue is education and training, which must be modernised, accessible to all, flexible and labour market-oriented. the union must play a coordinating, advisory role in the european labour market, supporting the training process and improving its quality. therefore, additional resources in the investment package must be allocated, inter alia, to address education and training inequalities. the priorities in the area of education and training also include: the extension of the youth guarantee to persons under 30, the wider implementation of the dual learning system based on international cooperation, the maintenance and expansion of cooperation under erasmus+ and, as with horizon 2020, the resolution of the problem of insufficient payments that threatens the further development of the programme. the package should take into account the provision of quality lifelong learning.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's climate strategy is based on a number of very dubious assumptions. first, it is based on the assumption that there is a consensus in the scientific world about the direction of climate change and the impact of human activities on it. in other words, the opinions expressed in the ipcc reports are the only ones that are supposed to be present in the scientific debate, which is clearly not true. other opinions are simply suppressed. the consensus is that the climate is changing, just as it always has. but even assuming that the panel's opinions are correct, the second dubious assumption is the belief that other global players will agree to significant concessions on their economic policies. the third dubious assumption concerns the role of the european union. we can set an example for others to take care of the environment and climate, but apparently no one is going to change their policies because of this, and with the union's share of global emissions shrinking, the importance of unilateral action is steadily decreasing. the risk of losing competitiveness is increasing. let me remind you again that by 2030, we will be responsible for 4% of global emissions. so we will not do anything on our own, and we will seriously jeopardize plans to restore the meaningful role of our industry that we so desperately need.
mr president, if one wants to combat climate change, then i propose fighting global warming in spring and global cooling in the autumn. that makes just as much sense. global warming is a cyclical process, only its cycle is longer. by the way, the earth needs more carbon dioxide and more warmth for plants to grow and make the earth greener. is combating global warming nonsense? no, because the real aim of its proponents is to stop economic growth. you should read about the zero-growth theory. they believe in it and they are achieving their goal. the development of europe is zero. when europe is liberated from the occupation of the european union, i hope that those people will be unmasked, persecuted and duly sentenced. moreover, i think that, if europe is to survive, the european union must be destroyed.
mr president, i am very glad to see the commissioner in the place where he is sitting now, but it is a pity, mr commissioner, that you cannot sit together with us. i am quite sure that we have the same approach, because we spent some time in this parliament together. it is a global threat, this means that we should have a global answer. that is why we have been ringing the alarm bells for global climate action since 1992. the ringing is getting louder and louder, and we know that in paris 2015 it will probably be the last chance. and it is in lima that we should finalise the preliminary deal. first, and most important: intended nationally-determined contributions – to present our assessment phase, a road map to paris, a bottom-up approach. secondly: how to make the best use of the green climate fund and other funds and how to strengthen them. and thirdly: the sharing of new energy technologies. very important, all three of them. we cannot, as the european union, be the lone runner; we would endanger our industries, our smes, our energy sector and we would deprive ourselves of an important exit strategy from the crisis. this would be reckless and irresponsible. if we fail to reach a global deal, we may have to consider the principles of our own european deal. this is what is at stake in lima and paris, and this is why we must make the best of these conferences, and we ask you for close cooperation, mr commissioner, between our delegation – i am a member of our delegation to lima – and yourself, the european commission representative.
in writing. i can agree with the resolution's statement that climate change requires an urgent response. the question is, what is it? i don't agree that it's primarily human activity that's causing global warming, and that if we don't reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we're going to see a 5c rise by the end of the century. this is a blanket statement, based on the belief that the ipcc hypothesis has been proven. it is not possible, by accepting such an unproven claim, to simulate future climate effects by extrapolation. that is an incredibly crude, unscientific oversimplification. what should be the international response to global warming? first, we need to quickly and unequivocally determine whether the causes of these changes are natural or anthropogenic. second, if it turns out that the causes are anthropogenic, it is necessary to determine whether the causes are greenhouse gases or dust, or deforestation or other factors. third, more attention should be paid to the country-specific effects of climate change, as excessive focus on reducing co2 emissions is extremely costly and can delay or even prevent the equally costly and urgent need for countries to adapt to climate change. fourth, we need a broad discussion about climate change, its causes and local and global impacts, and that is not guaranteed by the ipcc and the belief in the infallibility of this unfortunate quasi-scientific body.
madam president! i voted today in favour of the report on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank because i believe that regulation 2533 of 1998 clearly needs to be amended in the light of the extension of the ecb's powers. the new supervisory tasks conferred on the ecb are a consequence of the changes that have taken place in the euro area as a result of the collapse of the world and european economies. the irresponsible behaviour of some financial institutions has led to a deepening of poverty and social exclusion in europe. it is therefore good that the ecb will be able to control and verify the data received. in this area, the proposed amendment giving the bank the power to collect and analyse so-called raw data, not processed by the supervised institutions, seems appropriate. this will create better conditions for learning their real situation, allowing the importance of individual actions to be differentiated and thus the responsibilities and potential consequences. i also fully agree with the text that the extension of the obligation to provide data imposed on credit institutions must be balanced by the strengthening of the requirements necessary to protect their confidentiality. it must be borne in mind that supervised entities are very sensitive to any manipulation and that the leakage of confidential information can weaken their position on the market. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i abstained from voting in favour of another already flawed resolution, a draft political statement for the un conference on climate change (cop 20) in lima, peru, in december this year. because i missed the most important issue in this project, and i missed the call for a truly scientific discussion about the causes of climate change. as long as the anthropogenic causes of global warming are hypothetical and science has not provided definitive evidence, there can be no serious discussion about limiting co2 emissions. unfortunately, this evidence is still lacking and politicians are left with nothing but to frighten people with disasters, which is already evidence for some eu politicians.
mr. chairman, please! i speak as an ambassador from a country that was also once home to many millions of jews. warsaw, where i was elected, was the largest concentration of jews in europe before the war. unfortunately, this centuries-old symbiosis of poles and jews was interrupted by the german crime of the holocaust committed mainly on polish soil. today, poland is also a great jewish cemetery. and that's why the safety of the jewish people is so important to us. i believe that premature unilateral recognition of a palestinian state does not serve that security well. it is clear that we must support further israeli-palestinian dialogue. thank you, sir.
mr. deputy, i've selected one person from each political group, in the order in which they came forward. the criteria are very clear and transparent. i would ask that you please take the floor, commissioner federica mogherini.
that is the policy we have adopted, that is what we do in almost every debate, and it was not the intention of any of the presidents of the european parliament to discriminate against anyone. i voted by the number of people who had registered, so whoever came in first got a chance to vote. please, commissioner federica mogherini. i'm not going to let you go.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next part-session of our parliament. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child (2014/2019 (rsp)).
a quarter of a century after the adoption of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, the first of these rights - the right to life - is being systematically violated by most of the countries of the western world. and let us remember that evil has a terrible dynamic: consent to so-called abortion is increasingly resulting in neonatal homicide, the killing of children who have survived the abortion attempt. it's time to end this horror. today in parliament we announced the creation of a european federation to continue the work of the european initiative 'one of us'. in the name of the work and dedication of the hundreds of thousands of people who have signed this petition, i call on the european union to stand up for the right to life of every child from the moment of conception. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! to be honest, reading the resolution we're discussing today is a rather sad experience for me. we emphasize that the convention on the rights of the child is the most widely ratified united nations convention. and what of it, when every day we receive new information about violence against children, about their beating, mistreatment, forced labor, sexual abuse, etc., etc.? what if the list of dangers is as long as it is, and the progress of civilization brings new dangers? do we really need an information boost every time to think that children need our protection and care, that this is our greatest good? our young people are our greatest asset. i would therefore like us in the european parliament not only to call for action but to do our job, to do our work in our committees and in the plenary, to prepare legislative solutions that will actually protect children. in our work, we develop solutions that help to combat violence against children, their sexual exploitation and forced labour. let's remember that these are all adults who are responsible, and therefore, prosecuting people who commit these heinous crimes is our primary responsibility. so all the countries of the european union, all the law enforcement agencies, all the prosecutors in the member states should be working closely together. in the field of civil law, too, we have the possibility of creating rules that, in difficult situations, such as the divorce of parents or the abduction of children from their country to another, will at least minimize the harmful effects of this situation on the child. it is worth pointing out here that the institutions of the state are to be guided not only by the letter of the law but also by the spirit of the law. they're not just a mechanical thing, they're a person who thinks. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, mr ambassador, i have to ask you to stop this. eleven years ago, your party wrote in its program the beautiful words that the right to life of the unborn should be protected as polish legislation does. it is a pity that you did not repeat this here in the european parliament today. why would you do that?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. it's good that you said what good my party did, so i don't have to remind you because it works. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr vice-president of the european commission! ladies and gentlemen! all the initiatives mentioned by commissioner dombrovskis, as described in the g20 summit documents, both the conclusions and the action plan, which is to lead to growth that also increases employment - meaningful employment, not on the basis of wasteful jobs - are very important. what is important is infrastructure programs, big programs, the adjustment of the banking system and the establishment of an infrastructure hub. but there is one aspect that needed to be highlighted at the g20 summit: security. security also has an economic dimension, and the lack of it kills any hope of growth and development. however, this issue was not reflected in the g20 documents at all. after the countries of my region joined nato and the european union, we experienced an unprecedented period of economic growth. the entrepreneurial spirit has been unleashed. foreign direct investment, major infrastructure projects. all those opportunities have been killed by open aggression in our region, the threat of balkanization of the region. you, mr commissioner, and the president of the commission, the president of the council, represented only part of the european union at the g20 summit. you have completely failed to point out the economic, developmental, social risks to our region. behind the veil of media isolation of vladimir putin, an agreement was reached over our heads.
mr president, if we want to avoid drift in europe, we need to use all digital drivers for development, start a serious debate with all stakeholders, think in holistic terms and accelerate the implementation of the digital single market, as is properly suggested by the resolution. but there are some problems as well. firstly, the problem in point 10 is more complicated. it does not only concern the functioning of search engines but also social media, on-line shopping sites and mobile applications. very often, users do not know how all those solutions are interdependent. you should ensure that these kinds of services clearly identify and keep separated advertising, product promotions and other paid-for content. this should be integrated in the business models. secondly, monopolistic advantages do not create a healthy balance in the market, but we should not look for a scapegoat to explain our weaknesses. we can put the problem of search engines, but we also need to understand the use of search engines as a vehicle for usual economic activity, also by new start-ups. we need systemic and clear competitive rules for all, but we should also accept the ways the market works. so if we want to use the word ‘rebundling’, we should require a fair and transparent process of analysis of the situation. thirdly, why do we have problems with implementation of the digital single market? is it investment shortage, lack of a consolidated telecoms market, limited access to fast internet, lack of privacy protection as a background for trust, uncertainty of net neutrality or lack of new copyright with respect for authors? yes, but not only. fragmentation is a key issue. member states are not sufficiently brave, are often opposed to a common view and avoid taking the decisions which would make it possible to have a european market without the administrative burden of 28 legal regimes. so mr president – let’s do it! (sustained applause)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are talking about the fact that our citizens expect a well-functioning digital single market and europe needs to be a leader in this area. and this market will only work well if it not only supports innovation, creativity, entrepreneurship - which you've talked about here - but also if it is tailored to the needs of consumers, if it can meet the expectations of those consumers. and it's true, consumers want to feel safe in the digital marketplace. and our job is to remove the barriers that we have talked about here to help consumers take full advantage of the opportunities of the digital single market. and that is why we must start negotiations with the council as soon as possible to end the still too expensive roaming. there's so much to do to ensure net neutrality that there's not enough time to go over everything here: but these are the issues of electronic payments, from online dispute resolution to copyright and the postal market. thank you very much for pointing this out, commissioner. the functioning of the market, the functioning of the search engines, has a very strong influence on how citizens use, how they can use the internet. for many citizens, it is the gateway to the internet, and that is why it is so important that users know why they are getting these and not those results and that these results are as objective as possible. we get a lot of signals from consumers, from businesses, that the market is not functioning as it should, that there is a lack of transparency. it is not working properly and the european commission needs to look at it more closely, and perhaps it should consider whether it should even take legal action. so, i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, let's support a resolution that doesn't just affect search engines, but affects the entire digital reality.
i have received three motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 27 november 2014. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the eu steel industry: protection of workers and industry (2014/2976 ((rsp)).
- thank you very much, commissioner. we're so glad you could spend the evening with us. thank you for your statement. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next part-session of the european parliament. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. just the day before yesterday, in this very room, pope francis said, "we cannot accept that millions of people around the world are starving to death, while every day tons of food are thrown off our tables". according to a united nations study, 1.3 million tons of food are wasted every year. ladies and gentlemen! no commission action, no subsidy to combat malnutrition will be effective unless we first make a comprehensive change in the legal regulations and practices of food producers. why should we debate this general document if it is still possible under eu law to speculate on the prices of articles by throwing away tons of foodstuffs in order to prevent their falling in price? and those who share their surplus food, punished by taxes. in this context, the commission's proposals to tackle child hunger by promoting gender equality and empowering women in all areas of nutrition seem like a grim joke. we must have the courage to tell ourselves the brutal truth here in this room today. it is eu legislation that largely allows for unethical practices by food producers. if we are to counter the greatest shame of our time - the scourge of child hunger - we must take really strong action and start by changing the regulations that are so far undermining much of our efforts to improve the lives of the most vulnerable among us. i'm not going to let you do this. please give me specific actions you are planning to take to change the legal regulations that would solve this problem.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the world has a food problem, and it's affecting children in particular. true, much progress has been made toward achieving one of the millennium development goals, namely, to halve the number of undernourished people in developing countries. but the problem is not gone; it is pervasive and complex. that is why i support the text of the motion for a resolution. the main cause of malnutrition among children in all regions of the world is poverty. the situation is most difficult in south asia and sub-saharan africa. unicef figures show that worldwide, about 100 million children are malnourished, and more than 50 million children under the age of five are starving. and yet, 160 million children worldwide are stunted. malnutrition hinders a child's physical development, impairs his intellect, his ability to concentrate and learn, and consequently, his ability to be independent in the future, to find a good job, and to break the cycle of poverty in which he grows up. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and related hunger and malnutrition among children. as a member of the deve committee, i would like to stress the particular need to help developing countries to achieve real development that will enable them to become self-sufficient in the future. we cannot refuse emergency aid, especially in extreme cases where not only children but their entire families suffer because of hunger. malnutrition is especially dangerous for pregnant women, as it can cause significant harm or impair the development of the fetus. well-nourished children are the hope of future generations, they are healthier and they learn better. this gives them the opportunity to provide a decent life for themselves and others in the future. but today, in the world, every five to six seconds, as we know, a child dies. together, we can change that.
in writing. – child malnutrition and undernutrition continue to be of great concern. therefore, i will continue to support the measures taken by this house and this union in the efforts to eliminate child malnutrition. it is evident that there is not a one-solution-fits-all scenario in which to implement, thus we must remain open and diligent in our approach. one important factor that can make a tremendous amount of difference is nutrition for the unborn child while the mother is providing for them both. the crucial point for child nutrition is the first 1 000 days which is when the nutritional needs of the child may vary but good nutrition during this time is vital. in addition child nutrition can be linked to the education, or lack thereof, of the mother and also needs to be addressed in future policy. while the commission has in fact earmarked eur 3.5 billion between 2014 and 2020 to improving nutrition in some of the world’s poorest countries, i would encourage the commission to scale up its commitments as regards nutrition-specific interventions in order to meet its objective of reducing by 7 million the number of stunted children under the age of five by 2025.
mr. chairman, please! many of our colleagues have already spoken about the asia bibi case mr. škripek, mr. van dalen, mr. svoboda, mr. chauprade, mr. caputo have also spoken. i want to propose and demand more pragmatic action, because asia bibi can no longer endure the psychological torture of being held for many years on death row. the authorities of the podkarpackie voivodeship in poland have offered to accept asia bibi for medical treatment. the mayor of paris is proposing the same. these concrete social proposals must be supported by european union diplomacy. this is a specific appeal to minister mogherini to support initiatives taken by specific local authorities in our countries. this woman needs to be released from prison now. and of course, we have to say this to our partners in the muslim world: no muslim in europe is persecuted in this way because of his religion. so we should demand those rules, those laws, that we apply ourselves.
the condemnation of the crimes of the seychelles is an obvious requirement of justice, that is, first of all, an appeal to the international criminal court in the hague to give a consistent verdict on this crime. it is, as the draft resolution says, a crime of national hatred, but for justice to be justice, we must remember all crimes, including those committed on the basis of communist ideology. many of them have never been tried. it's about central europe, it's about poland. and finally, a final remark: the just and necessary condemnation of mr seselj and his crimes must not close the door on the courageous serbian people, who have the right to participate in the european community, as do all the balkan peoples. we should do both.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. let's not talk about red lines, because those red lines have been crossed many times in the context of the so-called islamic state. but let's also talk as politicians about the significant mistakes that have been made by the iraqi authorities, and perhaps by us, by the west, because this inaction of the authorities in baghdad has triggered what is happening right now in large parts of iraq and in large parts of syria. of course we have to protest, but it can't end with a verbal protest. we have to take very real action as the european union, because what is happening are images from maybe a few hundred or a thousand years ago, not from the 21st century. i think that the european parliament should force very strong action on the council.
mr. president, we are witnessing an increase in attacks by the so-called islamic state on the civilian population in iraq. mass killings, violence, especially against religious minorities, kidnappings, rapes have led to a humanitarian crisis in the region. women and girls are the most common victims, treated as commodities, sold in local markets, or forced into marriage. the developments in iraq and the transnational nature of the so-called islamic state are of great concern to the international community. any acts of aggression and flagrant violation of fundamental rights against religious minorities, and especially women, by islamic militants should be strongly condemned. as denis mukwege, who received this week's saharow prize, said, "rape is a cheap, accessible and insanely destructive weapon designed to humiliate and dehumanize women, an extraordinarily cruel form of human destruction". the guilty must be punished, and in this context we call on the iraqi authorities to join the international criminal court, which will allow for the effective prosecution of those responsible for crimes against humanity.
in writing. - negotiating operational programmes is undoubtedly a difficult and complex process for both the member states and the european commission, and the efforts made by both parties in this dialogue should be appreciated. unfortunately, however, delays in the implementation of cohesion policy seem to be difficult to avoid. we need to be aware of the challenge that this shift will pose to local and regional authorities. i therefore believe it is particularly important that as many of the operational programmes as possible should have a status ready for adoption by the end of this year. i know from my country, poland, how determined our authorities are and how hard they are working to achieve this goal. i believe that the european commission has a similar determination and that we will be able to avoid, or at least minimise, the need for a difficult procedure for revising the multiannual financial framework. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child. this year marks the 25th anniversary of the convention. poland was the initiator of this most important document on children's rights. the anniversary is a good time to take stock of the situation with regard to children's rights. in this context, i wanted to highlight the issues of protecting children from poverty. one of the provisions of the convention is the right of every child to a standard of living adequate for his or her physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development (article 27). poverty means depriving children of these rights, as well as of the rights to survival, protection and development, also enshrined in the convention. although the number of people living in extreme poverty has declined worldwide, nearly half of the world's poorest people are 18 years of age or younger. poverty is not limited to the poorest countries. according to a recent unicef report, more than 30 million children in the richest countries of the world live in poverty. in europe, one in four children under six is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. failure to protect children from poverty has tragic consequences for the children themselves and for society as a whole. that's why poverty reduction must be a key priority for every government. at european level, it is crucial to introduce a separate child poverty reduction target in the european programme to combat poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child. this resolution reiterates the eu’s commitment to the protection of children and their rights as human beings. while having ratified this important convention there still remain important and ever-present issues that have a direct impact on the rights of children. one such issue is that of the children of detained or imprisoned parents. therefore, it is vital to assess the impact of detention policies and criminal justice systems on children. it is clear, in the case of children from the eu, that their rights are directly affected when living in detention facilities with their parents. recent estimations show 800 000 children in the eu are separated from an imprisoned parent each year, which impacts the rights of children in several ways. it is my hope that continued attention does not waver from the un document and we can ensure that the principle of the best interests of the child is respected in all legislation, in decisions taken by government representatives at all levels and in all court decisions.
in writing. - in developing countries, about 2.6 million children die of malnutrition each year, which means that on average, one child dies of hunger every 12 seconds. it is no coincidence that reducing the number of undernourished people in the world is listed as the first of the millennium development goals. one of the main causes of hunger is poverty, which unfortunately creates a vicious circle. a child who is hungry is unable to develop properly, has difficulty learning and concentrating, and consequently is denied the chance to get a good job and escape poverty. the international community's help is therefore essential to combat this phenomenon. i think the european union's commitment to the fight against hunger is significant, for example, the food instrument or the millennium development goals initiative, both with budgets of 1 billion euros. however, it should be borne in mind that not only food aid is needed, but also structural support, including support for rural development and sustainable agriculture, public health, water management and education. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on child malnutrition in developing countries. malnutrition causes the death of more than 3 million children a year and results in a high rate of morbidity among children under the age of five. emphasising that access to food is a human right, the fight against malnutrition, hidden hunger and food security must undoubtedly be at the heart of the post-2015 development agenda. to tackle these problems effectively, we need greater coherence across a range of areas, including agriculture, food security, health, social protection and education. in addition, an effective nutrition policy and monitoring of the effectiveness of the measures taken are necessary. we also need to focus on addressing the causes of child malnutrition, including poverty. poorer children are three times more likely to suffer from malnutrition than children in richer countries. finally, investing in education is the best way to end poverty, reduce child and infant mortality, reduce malnutrition and improve children's health.
in writing. – child malnutrition and under-nutrition continues to be of great concern. therefore, i will continue to support the measures taken by this house and this union in the efforts to eliminate child malnutrition. it is evident that there is not a ‘one solution fits all scenarios’ in which to implement, thus we must remain open and diligent in our approach. one important facet that can make a tremendous amount of difference is that of nutrition for unborn children while the mother is providing for both. the crucial point for child nutrition is the first 1 000 days which is when the nutritional needs of the child may vary but good nutrition during this time is vital. in addition child nutrition can be linked to the education, or lack thereof, of the mother and also needs to be addressed in future policy. while the commission has in fact earmarked eur 3.5 billion between 2014 and 2020 for improving nutrition in some of the world’s poorest countries, i would encourage the commission to scale up its commitments as regards nutrition-specific interventions in order to meet its objective of reducing by 7 million the number of stunted children under the age of five by 2025.
in writing. on thursday 27 november 2014, the european parliament adopted a resolution on malnutrition and undernourishment among children in developing countries. according to the development commission (deve), malnutrition is a serious problem and its prevalence weakens the productivity and human resource potential of the country. lack of proper nutrition in the first 1,000 days of life is the cause of physical and mental disability. this global problem affects more than 165 million children under the age of five and requires decisive action. the text of the resolution recommends multi-sectoral action, including the coordination of rural development policies, increased support for small-scale farmers, medium-scale farms, the establishment of a law guaranteeing access to food and proper nutrition, and the development of rescue programmes to respond to and prevent food crises. i voted in favour of the resolution, a healthy person is the foundation for building a well-functioning society.
madam president! thank you very much, sir. i would like to make two points very clear at the beginning of this debate. first of all, i think we're putting a lot of emphasis on the quality of the fuel, and i think we should put a lot of emphasis on the security of the fuel supply. so it's not just the quality that's important, but also the reliability of the fuel supply. the union should therefore pursue a common policy which, in addition to improving fuel quality, would also significantly increase security of supply. and problem two: there is a very clear increase in research and technology deployment by 2020. i think that these measures should absolutely increase both the resources and the preferences for research that would reduce emissions. i think those are two important goals.
on behalf of the ecr group. - how are you, commissioner? i am delighted that we can join you today in this first debate on a major issue. the house will vote on wednesday on a draft implementing regulation on the classification of serious infringements of eu rules that may lead to the loss of good repute of a road haulage operator. at the last meeting of the transport committee, it was decided to refer this proposal back to the european commission for further development. i agree with the previous speakers and i hope that the european parliament will confirm this decision of the committee on transport on wednesday, which was already taken a few days ago. why would you do that? because the list presented is not complete and does not cover all the categories of infringements leading to the loss of the good reputation of transport operators, nor those which create a risk of serious injury to road users and the social expectations of drivers. the european commission's proposal is therefore unbalanced and consequently fails to take account of the interests of either employers or workers. we expect a more rational approach, a thorough analysis of the arguments of both sides and the safeguarding of their interests. the infringement catalogue should not in any way undermine the principle of subsidiarity or seek to eliminate road hauliers from the transport market. we need an expert debate and discussion today on the violations in the international road transport market. we must develop instruments which, on the one hand, counter illegal cabotage and, on the other, take account of the often rational arguments of drivers on social issues.
madam president! the regulation we are discussing today addresses the issue of breaches of reputation and loss of reputation by road hauliers. in my view, the commission has not precisely defined all the road safety offences and those who raise these doubts should be agreed. the delegated act should be complete, transparent and lead to better enforcement, rather than allowing for free interpretation and selective treatment. we have too many road accidents and the human tragedy that goes with them to be superficial. i therefore support those who say that the list of infringements should be supplemented. the debate on the regulation has also opened up another area of increasing controversy, which concerns cabotage and so-called social dumping. it should be stressed that cabotage matters are regulated by a separate regulation of the european parliament and of the council and that cabotage infringements do not constitute grounds for the loss of good repute of the carrier as they are not directly related to road safety. when we talk about social issues, we have to consider a few aspects. first, we have one european union, we have a common market, but we also have significant differences in wages for the same job in different countries of the european union. secondly, it must not be forgotten that workers and drivers from one eu or non-eu country are often employed under very different conditions and at much lower rates than in the eu country where they work. third, you cannot solve problems that are uncomfortable for one country or government at the expense of other countries. i agree that this is a very difficult and important subject, and therefore i believe that there is a need for an expert and fact-based discussion on the extent of the infringements occurring in the international road transport market and the development of common instruments that would counter the phenomenon of illegal cabotage.
ladies and gentlemen! road transport is the backbone of goods transport within the european union it accounts for over 70% of all transport and generates close to 2% of the eu's gdp. this shows that it is a kind of circulation of the single market, without which it would be difficult to speak of the free movement of goods. despite its importance to the european economy, many barriers to business in this sector persist. many restrictions prevent companies from competing with each other, which in turn increases the cost of transporting goods. it is estimated that the current legal situation results in losses of close to eur 50 million per year. the voices of some governments calling for further restrictions and possibilities for the provision of national transport services by operators from other member states are therefore surprising. if we want to stimulate the european economy, increase production and re-industrialize, we must create the best possible conditions for the transport of goods. no country can attract investors unless it can transport its manufactured goods quickly. the new list of major road transport regulations being discussed today by the european commission must be carefully thought out so as not to lead to the collapse of transport companies, and precise enough to prevent some member states from misinterpreting it. the use of excessive controls for protectionist purposes will not only weaken the implementation of the internal road transport market and lead to a loss of its potential, but will also create an antagonistic climate in the international provision of transport services. we all want to improve the skills of professional road hauliers and thus improve road safety in the eu. common rules for the classification of serious infringements of union law which may lead to the loss of good repute of a road transport operator should therefore be very precise and serve as a reference for national control systems. at the same time, given the legal form in which the commission has drawn up the new list, care should be taken that the commission does not go beyond its competence. thank you very much. thank you.
the proposal for this legislation is causing a lot of debate in this room. in my view, that is because the regulation is intended to cover too many matters. so i suggest that we consistently focus on two aspects. firstly, it must vigorously defend those provisions which have a chance of improving transport safety, and secondly, as far as social matters are concerned, i think there is a different type of problem. first, the observance of the existing rules should be assessed very carefully. the problem today is not that we need to create new laws, but that we have a whole bunch of good solutions, but these solutions are being broken and ignored. i think that's a good place to start. thank you, sir.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 150).
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw the attention of the european commission to the very difficult situation of farmers - milk producers in my country, poland. the russian embargo has caused milk prices to fall for another month in a row. they're already down about 20% from before the embargo. at the same time, farmers are subject to penalties for exceeding production limits in the 2013/2014 quota year. these fines amounted to eur 46 million and were levied on the farmers' salaries for the regular milk deliveries in september, october and november, which were accompanied by a sharp fall in the prices of the raw material supplied. the european commission has decided to support milk producers in the baltic states and finland with a so-called milk package worth eur 28 million, due to a fall in milk purchase prices in these countries of almost 20%. the milk producers in poland, however, are not covered by the package. as i have already said, the purchase price of milk in poland has also fallen by 20% and i therefore expect the commission to change its decision and extend the milk package to milk producers in my country.
mr. chairman, please! last week, a demonstration was held outside the european parliament against the barbaric practice of killing stray dogs in romania. people of good will cannot accept that in a member state of the european union in the 21st century, there is a brutal slaughter of homeless animals. it is also a harm done to people who are helpless in the face of such cruelty. mahatma gandhi once said that the level of a civilization and its moral development can be judged by how it treats its animals. i express my respect for the people of good will in romania and i call on the romanian authorities to put an end to this brutal practice, which is unworthy of european standards. i hope that the newly elected president iohannis will show sensitivity and activism in this matter. these practices are really not worthy of european standards in the 21st century. i'm asking the president to be proactive on this.
i'm closing the discussion on the agenda.
madam president! i would like to say at the outset that i believe that a system of fiscal discipline is absolutely necessary in a monetary union in which the member states retain their fiscal powers and at the same time there is no system of fiscal transfers. so we need to develop a system of discipline based on clear rules. i want to remind you that the crisis in europe did not happen because the euro was introduced, but because some countries or some banking systems in some countries simply became over-indebted. but there was no obligation to go into debt. at the same time, i want to say that three years of experience with the six-pack and the two-pack shows that some adjustment is necessary in these instruments. first of all, i would like to point out that this is a system that is too complicated and complex not for experts, but for the general public. this type of system leaves room for a variety of interpretations, and i'll give you an example of the endless debate about the degree of flexibility in fiscal rules. the system should therefore be simplified to make it more understandable also for ordinary people. secondly, the system is too much based on political decisions. this concerns not only the political mechanism for the introduction of the excessive deficit procedure, but also the discussion on whether to extend the deadlines for the submission of the relevant documents for some countries, i.e. the largest countries. i think that if we have legal rules, then they should not be the subject of a political vote. thirdly, i also want to emphasize that the most important thing is national ownership. we cannot allow a situation in which politicians are constantly pointing to brussels and saying: brussels is telling us to impose some kind of fiscal discipline. no, fiscal discipline must be enshrined in national law in a way that is consistent across the european union and then politicians will be obliged to enforce national laws and regulations.
mr president, i would like to highlight three issues for vice-president dombrovskis. my first comment is that i believe the very nature of economic governance forces us to look beyond this six-pack and two-pack into areas such as, for example, the banking union; even if it is not an element of economic governance we all know that it can bring stability to the system and also influence the capacity of the emu to deliver. so when identifying the areas for improvement within economic governance, i think we have to have this broader perspective. my second comment is on rules versus procedures, and my colleague mr niedermayer alluded to this issue. i think that the economic governance framework has indeed put many rules in place but their success hinges on the right policy choices. we also know that citizens, when looking at the outcome of economic governance, do not differentiate between the policy choices – mostly made nationally – and the rules on which the system is based. this can of course raise doubts about the viability of the system as well as its democratic credentials. so i think that while respecting the rules, we also have to have better tailor-made policy choices and also we have to carefully assess and hopefully fill in the legitimacy gap. the third point is on growth. i think, in particular today, that any economic governance needs to have a strong growth perspective, and structural reforms are of the essence here; and yet the governance framework does not provide for a mechanism to foster those reforms. contractual arrangements which were proposed by the four presidents two years ago had until recently disappeared from the radar. the eurogroup conclusions from december seemed to reopen this issue, so i hope that we will also have a strong commitment as a catalyst for structural reforms. i also hope that the commission will push in this direction and will play a leading role in this issue.
in writing. the honourable members will undoubtedly agree with the commission that the period of time has been too short to be able to make a fair assessment of the functioning of the economic governance rules. suffice it to say that the two-pillar system came into force only a year and a half ago. the commission welcomes the progress made in reducing the deficits in the member states and the reduction in the number of countries under the excessive deficit procedure. however, the overall economic situation in the union makes it difficult to consider the policy pursued as a comprehensive success. the societies most affected by the eu-led recovery measures are increasingly showing signs of rebellion. the political crisis in greece, the strikes in france and italy, all raise the question of the social costs of measures taken to reduce the budget deficit. in fact, apart from the reduction in debt, it's hard to see any other positive. the economies of many member states are once again approaching recession and unemployment remains high in many of them. from this perspective, the current economic governance package is hardly a clear success. many economists have indicated that fiscal consolidation alone may not be enough to return to growth. it is therefore good that the new commission has seen the need to complement the regulations in question with a package to stimulate the european economy. it has been met with fairly widespread criticism, but it is in the interest of all of us that it should produce the expected results.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the candidate for the european ombudsman ms emily o’reilly. i firmly believe that during her past mandate, ms o’reilly has shown a very proactive attitude in terms of the tasks assigned to her office. moreover, thanks to her prior experience as an irish national ombudsman, ms o’reilly was able to start working efficiently very early during her term. in my capacity as a rapporteur on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013, i had the privilege to observe the work of her team closely and i would like to congratulate her on the successful mission to increase transparency within the institutions and on making the most of the instruments that are at her disposal. i fully support the fact that the role of the european ombudsman is to highlight citizens’ concerns and help to bridge the gap between them and the eu institutions. i firmly believe that the just re-elected european ombudsman will endorse this challenge with great dedication.
in writing. developing an effective research and innovation policy to modernise the economy and society is a political priority for both the eu and ukraine, and it is therefore desirable to renew the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine. this agreement, first signed in 2003 and renewed twice in 2004 and 2012, provides the legal basis for cooperation between eu research organisations and a number of ukrainian state institutions and bodies. in practice, it will ensure reciprocal access to programmes and activities related to the subject matter of the contract, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property and effective exploitation of research results. the agreement will allow for further exchanges of expertise and will also provide a forum for the eu and ukraine to identify common interests, priorities and tools for scientific and technical cooperation. he is confident that the cooperation in question will bring many benefits to the scientific community, industry and citizens of both countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with ukraine. this ep decision is necessary because the contract expired on 7 november 2014. i can only express my surprise that this decision is being taken more than a month after the expiry of the previous agreement, when it has been known for many months that effective assistance to ukraine also requires support for its scientific and technological cooperation with the eu. ukraine is at a turning point in its history. the most important thing is that the country is internally strong and able to stimulate its own development. because only a well-organized and modernized ukraine has a chance to preserve its independence. but this agreement cannot be just a paper record. the european commission services should support the exchange of specialists between ukraine and eu countries and the transfer of expertise to ukraine. i am convinced that the renewal of the agreement will help to increase scientific knowledge in ukraine and thus boost its access to the european market.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the inta report (a8-0026/2014) concerning participation of croatia in the european economic area. the agreement on the european economic area was signed on 2 may 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. according to the act of accession of the republic of croatia, croatia undertakes to accede, under the conditions laid down in the act, to the agreement on the european economic area, in accordance with article 128 of that agreement. on 4 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein and the kingdom of norway to amend the eea agreement and the agreement between the kingdom of norway and the european union on a norwegian financial mechanism for the period 2009-2014. the negotiations with iceland, liechtenstein and norway were successfully concluded. the proposed agreement makes the republic of croatia a contracting party to the eea agreement. the protocol includes croatia in the norwegian financial mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the launch of the financial resources for the former employees of the whirlpool plant in spini di gardolo. there is absolutely no reason why citizens of all the member states of the european union should have to pay their own taxes for one group of workers. the economic situation is difficult in many places of work and in many countries. even if we accept the logic of statism, but if we give money to some people, we should give money to others, otherwise it's just not fair. on the other hand, it is clear that subsidising private companies - because in essence the subsidy in question for employees removes the obligations of the company that employs them - is always a mistake. it's a reward for mismanagement and mismanagement. instead of rewarding economic failures, the union should reward existing businesses by removing administrative barriers and reducing taxes.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to mobilise over eur 1.2 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the german fiat auto poland plant is strongly supported. last year, about 1500 employees of the fiat auto poland plant lost their jobs. thanks to the intensive and effective national action of the labour fund, only 80 of them remain unemployed today. the egf will allow for the partial reimbursement of the costs of support from the labour fund, including programmes to help people find a job or create new employment opportunities, including grants for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship training. in accordance with the requirements of the european globalisation adjustment fund, only in a specific situation, where the redundancies at the establishment are linked to significant structural changes in world trade caused by globalisation, can they be used. the european commission has confirmed the existence of these circumstances in relation to the tychy plant. the european parliament has therefore today approved by an overwhelming majority the report approving the commission's request to use the fund, while reaffirming the need for and the effectiveness of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ explanation to the vote: deadline of 17.12.2012 on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (proposal egf/2013/006 pl/fiat auto poland s.a. of poland) (com (2014) 0699 c8-0243/2014 2014/2181 (bud)) ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased that the motion for a resolution on which i was the co-rapporteur was adopted by an overwhelming majority, and i congratulate mr olbricht on his consistency in pursuing his objective and on his excellent report. the commission has been unable to reach a decision on the matter. the firing of over 1000 workers at the fiat factory in tychy was a huge blow not only to the upper silesian region. this particular factory of an italian car manufacturer was, five years ago, the largest in europe and the second largest in the world. but the european crisis has not spared the german factory. the decrease in production by almost one third between 2011 and 2012 hit both the company and its suppliers in a region where unemployment is rising steadily. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will provide eur 1,26 million to partially reimburse the costs of supporting 777 redundant workers who have, inter alia, received training to help them find new jobs.
in writing. ‒ supporting private enterprises with state or public funds is always a bad idea, no matter in which european country the practice takes place. polish workers do not need funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. polish workers need favourable economic conditions based on reduced fiscal burdens, a lower threshold for legislative and administrative interference with the freedom of economic activity. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. in this sense, state money hinders the balanced and economic development of enterprises and the economic security of the employees employed in them.
in writing. ‒ despite its shortcomings, the european globalisation adjustment fund is a good instrument to support member states' aid actions. it is particularly useful in the automotive sector, which has been experiencing enormous problems for a number of years. the example of the polish fiat plant in tychy shows very clearly that changes in the world economy, combined with the economic crisis in europe and the politicization of economic decisions by private companies, can cause problems even for modern and highly efficient plants. the layoffs of over a thousand workers have led to the collapse of the factory's cooperatives and increased unemployment in a region that is already experiencing huge structural economic problems. so it is good that the relief measures taken by the polish government and local authorities have helped most of the dismissed workers to find work. that is why i supported the mobilisation of the fund for the reimbursement of expenditure. they will no doubt be needed to implement projects to support the remaining 100 people who are out of work, especially as they are mainly older or low-skilled people.
in writing. i welcome the approval of the application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundancies at the tychy plant of fiat auto poland s.a. it is clear that the reasons for the mass redundancy at the plant were the effects of globalisation, in particular the continuously decreasing market shares of the european automotive industry and the sharp drop in demand for passenger cars caused by the financial crisis. the decision means that more than €1.2 million from the eu budget will be used to reimburse the costs incurred by the silesian district employment offices last year to help the workers laid off at the tychy plant. these measures were multi-level and covered vocational and entrepreneurship training, training and traineeship grants, intervention work, measures to start a business and incentives to return to the labour market. the granting of the measures in question to poland is an example of the effective use of eu funds, since it appears that, thanks to the resolute initiative of our government, only 80 of the more than 1000 people affected by the redundancies are still out of work.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to launch the european globalisation adjustment fund. the transfer of the production of fiat panda from poland to italy was a political decision that had a negative impact on the situation of polish workers. the measures available through the egf will facilitate their reintegration into employment by taking up employment or self-employment.
in writing. - i voted against the granting of subsidies to air france. i believe that any subsidy to an activity, any subsidy, distorts competition in the market. it's making people lazy. when polish airline lot went bankrupt, the european commission rejected its aid application. why do we have to subsidize air france employees today? and the largest grant of any given term. we will allocate an astronomical sum of about 26 million euros to support air france. are the problems of the french airlines caused by the relocation of production? well, no, it wasn't. they're from the lack of change. a company cemented by the unions is unable to compete with other carriers. overpayments, wasteful policies and a lack of savings at the top are the reasons why this giant has fallen. the european union's fatal policy of doing everything to destroy european companies and industry is added to this. the eu's green rules are effective in deterring investment in the aviation sector by promoting non-eu airlines. instead of giving money, let's change the foundation of our industrial policy and environmental protection. how are we supposed to grow if we're always looking back, dragging the socialist zombies of state-owned companies behind us?
mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased that the president of the commission has said that the programme and its presentation are only the beginning of the debate, not the end. contrary to what is being said, i do not think that this commission is dusty and that nothing has changed. i welcome very much the fact that the commission is aiming for better legislation. i agree that there is a need to review community law. the question is whether the acquis communautaire is not duplicating itself, where are the gaps in that law that hinder our activities and need to be filled in, and where are the reserves that are primarily strengthening economic growth or social cohesion. secondly, the review of the transition from the previous commission to the current programme requires a swift decision so that parliament is not left in doubt about the fate of projects we have already started work on, such as the clean air package or the waste package. thirdly, i would like to support the priorities set out by the european commission, in particular the energy union. it must be admitted that the issue of energy security, the elimination of energy islands, the development of transmission infrastructure and the diversification of supply are all extremely important, especially in the context of the crisis in eastern europe. the functioning of the internal market is also important, including - i stress this very strongly - the free movement of persons and the implementation of the services directive, as is the digital agenda as the basis for, among other things, rapid and smart growth and the development of entrepreneurship, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, together with the entire investment package presented. i also think it is very important to tax profits where they are made. we know examples of transfers, especially at the beginning of the transformation of countries like mine, from the countries where the profit was generated to the countries of origin of the companies that were operating in the field. and finally, the issue of the circular economy and its relationship with other priorities, such as the bioeconomy, which has already been enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have heard very important statements here today, first from president timmermans and now from the honourable member, that our great duty in the european union today is to fight unemployment decisively. it is a very negative phenomenon that affects young people today, and creating development opportunities for them, which will allow them to live with dignity in our countries, in the countries of the european union, and not to go outside in search of jobs, because this is not the way to fight unemployment, is a great prospect today. in january 2014, less than a year ago, the previous european commission issued a communication calling for the rebirth of european industry. the need for reindustrialisation was also mentioned in the speeches of the then candidates for european commissioners, including mrs elżbieta bieńkowska, now commissioner. in this connection, mr president, we must ask ourselves a few questions, namely: we are talking about industrial regeneration and reindustrialisation. i understand that the same is true in europe. what has been done since january 2014? so far, it's been a matter of opinion. what do climate-related constraints have to do with it? the union is taking decisive action on these issues, but so far no action has been taken on reindustrialisation, the construction of new sites ... (the president withdrew the member's question.) 'the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i have a short question: when will we finally see some legislative solutions for reindustrialization? when will we see, mr president, any action plan from the european commission that will be proposed to us? this is the thing that interests me most today, because this is the way to fight unemployment, the way to develop europe further, the way to get out of the economic crisis. if we're going to generate money somewhere, it should go in that direction. and the last question is, what kind of money is that? thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman of the committee! ladies and gentlemen, the vice president! we're talking about the program for the european union next year. that's very important, because this program needs to be realistic, and i thank you for that approach. what we commit to must be done - that's the most important thing - but we also understand that if something isn't on the agenda for next year, it will be implemented in subsequent years. we would like to hear the commission's commitment that these cases are not lost, as we have established in the ten-point programme. i'll get to the point. a lot of people have raised the issue of unemployment. the most important thing is to provide jobs for people. that's true. the committee i chair is working on a number of points that could prevent or reduce unemployment. first of all, the energy of is obvious, it's been talked about. we also need cheaper energy, access to the american market, security of supply, access to indigenous energy sources, and new technologies. the second issue - thank you for highlighting this - is the digital market: the trilateral talks should start as soon as possible; we need to put pressure on the council. and the third thing - and i think this is very important - is the road map for our industrial policy. with the reindustrialisation that was so important at the end of the previous commission, we can also strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and give people jobs. so we're waiting for the road map.
i'll skip the praise and the thanks. vice chairman timmermans said that just because something wasn't mentioned doesn't mean it wasn't important. i understand that this is about priorities, whether the work programme for 2015 is a good statement, but clearing the desk of these problems, not taking these issues does not mean that they are not there, much less solving them. we are here today in europe, at the turn of the year 2014/2015. we have difficult problems which concern the whole of the union, which concern the whole of the european commission, the council and the parliament. i am thinking here of the russian embargo, the growing problems in the milk market due to the abolition of milk quotas, the threat to food security caused by the african swine fever. it is assumed that proposals on organic production and school curricula will be excluded from the programme of socially important works. they're difficult, they're troublesome, but, as i said, they're socially sensitive. in summary, firstly, these issues should be addressed and included in the work programme and priorities for 2015. secondly, i agree that it is time to simplify and reduce the number of legislative acts.
in writing. i hope that enhanced cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament will take place not only at the stage of agreeing priority initiatives, but also during their implementation and evaluation. i believe that stimulating growth and investment, and thus creating new jobs, has rightly been identified as one of the priorities. the problem of high unemployment is the result of the economic crisis. as a consequence, austerity policies were introduced, which in the following years allowed the consolidation of public finances. but it's time to increase investment. eu businesses expect simplified regulations, access to markets and support in the form of loans, guarantees and grants. i am therefore pleased that these elements have found their place in the commission's work plan for the coming year and also for the period up to 2020. i hope that not only the new fund for strategic investments but also cohesion policy funds will contribute actively to their implementation.
in writing. in 2015, we all want to boost investment, growth and jobs. to achieve this, the commission should propose a coherent, complementary action plan to enhance the competitiveness of the union. the two main parts of the strategy should be the investment plan and the lessons learned from the europe 2020 review. the investment package of president juncker is a good starting point for stimulating europe's investment potential, but its success depends, among other things, on the involvement of private investors, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. we also need more synergies between programmes, including between the structural funds and horizon 2020. although it is possible to combine funding within programmes, it is not sufficiently practised. more support is therefore needed for potential beneficiaries whose projects are viable thanks to support from different sources of funding. such projects contribute to innovative solutions as well as to economic and social cohesion. moreover, with the upcoming review of the bologna process in 2015, i hope that the commission, as a member of the monitoring group, will propose concrete proposals to enhance and develop the bologna process. in this context, i ask the commission to pay particular attention to the social aspects of the creation of the ehea, and in particular to increasing the accessibility of studies to candidates from all social groups.
in writing. i welcome the fact that in the 2015 work programme the commission has placed emphasis on creating conditions favourable to employment, the acquisition of new skills, mobility and the strengthening of the internal market. in its 2013 citizenship report, the commission proposed 12 concrete actions to help europeans better enjoy their rights, including the introduction of a european disability card, recognised by member states. the charter would enable disabled people to take full advantage of the facilities and privileges offered to them in their country of residence when travelling. the card would certainly contribute to greater mobility, to greater access to study and work abroad. the introduction of this document, like the previous parking card for the disabled, is an example of a relatively simple action that will improve the situation of a very large group of europeans. one in six eu citizens is disabled. it is in the interest of the union as a whole to remove the barriers to the economic and social potential of this group. the draft charter is fully in line with the commission's strategic objectives and i hope that the work on the european disability charter will make significant progress in 2015.
the rapporteur. the commission has already decided to grant a discharge to the member states in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000. this week we are finalising a very difficult process of budgetary agreement for 2014/2015, which includes an amendment to the european union's own resources regulation, which has been considered by the european parliament. i don't envy the participants of a conciliation i haven't attended for the first time in ten years. but i'm not jealous because there's always some additional circumstance of these negotiations, a part of the annual budget. last year, it was the link between the annual budget and the financial perspective agreements for 2014-2020. this year, the additional circumstance was the change in the way contributions were calculated based on gross national income and vat, which also complicated the negotiations. but year after year, the same problem arises: the draft budget of the european commission is not the commission's invention, it does not come out of nowhere. it's a downward-checked, conservative estimate of the estimate submissions coming in from 28 countries. hence the frustration in the final negotiations when this conservatively verified sum is then contested by the member states in the final negotiations. this year, the additional circumstance was indeed a significant change in the basis for calculating gross national product and vat, which meant good news for some countries overpaid, bad news for others underpaid. in the case of the united kingdom and the netherlands, these were considerable sums of money. the member states were so absorbed by this problem that they were unable to formulate their position by the end of the formal negotiating period, but at the same time they expected parliament to adopt an urgent procedure, a procedure for expressing a view in haste. we noted this paradox - budgetary delay on the one hand, urgency on the other - by accepting the opinions and the amendment to the own resources regulation as part of the final budgetary agreement. today we have an agreement for 2014/2015 and we also give a positive opinion on the amendment to the own resources regulation. however, we are introducing two amendments to the regulation in the interests of transparency in the financial and budgetary situation of the european union, namely the obligation to notify the european parliament of late payments and the result for the european budget. we are not renouncing criticism of the budgetary procedure itself, and that is the content of the legislative resolution. we would point out that these statistical changes were introduced by the member states themselves, in some cases facilitating their different settlements with the european commission. the iron rule, as i pointed out, has been to make the additional payments by december 1st. on the other hand, those countries which are extremely inflexible and do not make any concessions in the budgetary procedure, and are actually the leaders in cutting budgetary items that are clearly linked to economic competitiveness, job creation and growth, have called for facilitation and flexibility. this does not simplify the european union's own resources system. this complicates the system further, which is why the final element of our parliamentary position is to recognise the high-level group on own resources to actually review the system. the committee on budgets voted on the opinion last week. we expect to complete the formalities in the vote tomorrow.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. we are discussing the budget today before the vote and we are very pleased that a compromise has been reached. i think we have to be aware of a certain relativism in this matter. it's better to have a budget than to have a budget estimate. this situation is obviously much better than the situation that could have happened. we are also aware that the negotiations have been very difficult, as the commissioner has said, and that they have produced some very symptomatic elements. first, a huge amount of attention was focused not on the 2015 budget, but on the 2014 budget 'payment'. until the last moment, we were discussing avoiding disaster in 2014 at the expense of a very serious debate on the implications in the 2015 budget. the situation was unusual because in previous years the discussion on 2014 was very detailed and started much earlier, and here we had a debate on 2014 with the postponement of the theme for 2015. and yet 2014 and 2015 are crucial years for regional policy. the commissioner said that 2014 and 2015, in accordance with the n+2 principle, are the end of the settlement period, that is to say, all settlements, including payment claims, fall in 2014 and 2015. we're all aware that there has to be more money. in other words, today's satisfaction with the negotiations is a relative satisfaction, and we should be wondering whether the system in this version will continue to work. thank you, sir.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. despite parliament's firm stance towards the council and the commission on the joint examination of as many as six 2014 and 2015 amending budgets, the achievements of the trilogue are not significant. although the council finally agreed that the third amending budget should allocate the resources from penalties and fines to paying outstanding accounts instead of returning them to the member states' budgets, this is only eur 3.5 billion out of almost eur 5 billion of the total. the level of payments for 2015 was also increased from eur 140 billion, as requested by the council, to eur 141.2 billion, as proposed by the european commission in the new draft budget. in summary, we have an additional eur 4.7 billion in payments, but the amount of arrears is approaching eur 30 billion and these funds will only be used to improve the budget's liquidity, and unfortunately not to solve the problem of arrears. i also welcome with great concern the commission's suggestion that a so-called crisis reserve of eur 480 million be set aside, which would be made up of funds from direct or indirect subsidies, for non-agricultural purposes, given that the russian embargo on eu food is likely to continue throughout 2015. if this were to happen, it would be irresponsible and the commission's declarations that it intends to allocate funds for additional compensation to union farmers from the so-called general margin do not change this. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the eu budget has been a long process and its present shape is the result of a compromise. we have managed, unfortunately, to close the budget gap without increasing the contributions to the budget. we all want to avoid the budget cut. on the one hand, the current budgetary shape has many positive elements, such as increased spending on research, innovation and education and stimulating growth and employment (especially in terms of improving regional cohesion). on the other hand, however, i am concerned about the problem of the accumulation of arrears, which is being talked about as something that will be solved by the member states. but how? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary impact of the new financial perspective is not underestimated. (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur.– mr president, briefly, what was finally agreed for 2014 and 2015 is a typical compromise: nobody is happy, major problems have been postponed, but more destabilisation of the budget has been achieved. my hope lies really with the so-called payments plan, because it should reveal what really has not been paid and make the situation and understanding in the member states more dramatic. as for the amendment to the regulation on own resources: yes, we need transparency; we need some knowledge of how it is being produced over time, what is the cost of delays in payments. because, the iron rule, so far, was really to pay everything that was due to the eu budget on 1 december. and now we are really making an exception to this iron rule of the eu budget, so we should know the consequences. so, thank you, my hope is for a better conciliation next year; i remain silent.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. one of the bloodiest conflicts in decades, the war in syria, has already claimed at least 200,000 lives and forced hundreds of thousands of people to flee their homes. take the example of the ancient christian city of sardis, known from the bible, where aramaic was spoken, the language of jesus christ. it was said because today the city is no more, only ruins. the christians who had lived there for 2,000 years were largely murdered, and those who survived had no choice but to flee. more than 3 million people have fled syria to neighboring countries, and 7 million have become internally displaced. in both groups, 6 million are children. the tragedy of these innocent people was compounded by news that emerged earlier this month of the suspension of funding from the world food programme for syrian refugees in jordan, lebanon, turkey, iraq and egypt. the limit that was supposed to guarantee food for the month of december was not reached. we just got it from the public. ladies and gentlemen, let's make sure that these refugees don't become prisoners of war... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen! we had a debate in this chamber about the ratification of the association agreement with moldova almost a month ago. the vast majority of us have taken this fact - the fact of closer integration of this country into the political structures of a united europe - very positively. it should be remembered that the republic of moldova has been under constant political and military pressure from russia for many years. russia, which is making efforts to destabilise the moldovan government and to fuel separatist tendencies in the disputed regions. it is clear that the russian sanctions imposed on the moldovan agri-food sector are the same political blackmail measures as, for example, the embargo on polish fruits and other agricultural products. there will be no safe and sovereign moldova if its economy is weakened or ruined by putin's retaliatory actions. on june 27th, we made a big commitment to moldova, saying we want moldova closer to the european union. the russian embargo is in the political and economic interest of the european community as a whole, and the aid will bring moldova benefits that outweigh the financial costs for the states. the swift introduction of autonomous trade preferences for moldova is justified in the economic and political interest of the union. let us be aware that we will have to reach out to our moldovan friends many times over. if we do not want this country to share the fate of war-torn ukraine, we must, as a european community, face this challenge with courage. thank you, sir.
the european union's external policy is not always good and effective, but i would like to start by saying that in the case of moldova we can clearly say that our actions have been consistent and effective. they have given this country, which is in a very difficult situation, the opportunity to link up with the world of european institutions. we were very pleased with the association agreement with moldova and today we should see the autonomous trade instruments as an additional, desirable and beneficial means of supporting moldova's european aspirations and a very good, consistent response to the russian embargo. i must also express my satisfaction and joy at the good result of the recent parliamentary elections in moldova. they have brought victory to a coalition of forces which want to maintain a pro-european course and protest against what we have heard recently, against this manifestation of european selfishness. europe must be united in order to develop, and i am glad that we can be united with moldova. thank you, sir.
madam president! autonomous trade preferences are an instrument provided for in the neighbourhood policy. we launch them when we find that we cannot help our partners in any other way, as in the case of moldova, except by introducing new trade tariffs that will allow us to obtain the export effects of the surpluses that have been located on the russian market. russia has obviously reacted this way because it is not satisfied with moldova's european aspirations. the association agreement between moldova and the european union, which creates a deep and comprehensive free trade area and a basis for economic liberalisation and broad economic reforms, also covers agricultural products. but these additional preferences allow for some liquidity in trade in moldova. this is particularly true for a significant proportion of those working in agriculture. we are pleased with what happened on 30 september in the elections in moldova. i had the opportunity to be in this country right before the election. our interlocutors have spoken with great concern about the consequences of the russian embargo and i think that a gesture from the european union, from the european parliament - this swift decision - could be very helpful to our partners in moldova.
in writing. following the signing of the eu/moldova association agreement on 27 june, russia banned the import of fruit from moldova, officially for phytosanitary reasons. the agricultural sector accounts for about 40 percent of moldova's economy, while horticulture is an important part of it, employing some 250,000 people, mostly in rural areas. under the dcfta, the union has committed itself to full liberalisation of market access for fresh fruit and vegetables, subject to certain quantities. in view of the current serious difficulties in moldova, the commission has proposed to temporarily increase this fully liberalised market access for imports of products from moldova into the eu. especially in the current geopolitical situation, it's hard to disagree with that conclusion. we must maintain good neighbourly relations, especially in this troubled part of europe.
mr. chairman, please! a new internal security strategy is needed to respond to evolving threats. one of the most important is the growth of cybercrime, including cyberterrorism, which requires keeping up with technological change, effective law, new forms of cooperation between countries, as in the case of the network security directive, and adequate organisational and financial capacity of european agencies. post-factum reaction is not enough. new technologies are also being rapidly adapted to criminal activity. the web is flourishing with services offered to criminal organizations, making them harder to detect and costing the global economy nearly 250 billion euros a year. we need to know what the new criminal patterns are. one of them is the development of 'security by design': introducing solutions that support security in the development of new products and services. this requires strong collaboration between law enforcement, academia and business. and we must not forget about data privacy standards and internet freedom. the balance between security solutions and the protection of fundamental rights is crucial and must be the basis of the new strategy. the previous strategy already emphasised the need for a coherent approach to internal and external security. cooperation with third countries is therefore essential (especially in the face of cybercrime) to ensure europe's internal security.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. first of all, i would like to express my deep dissatisfaction and disapproval at the lack of support for ukraine from the european council. the most obvious sign of this is the failure to invite prime minister poroshenko to the council meeting. i would like to say one more thing, and i would say it very strongly, namely that if the council conclusions contain a statement calling on both sides, namely ukraine and russia, to respect the minsk agreements, this will mean that the aggressor and the victim of this aggression are in fact on the same footing. and it will be a scandal. that's the first thing. the second case is the investment plan signalled by president juncker over eur 300 billion. i would like to say one thing: there has been talk of the need to level the playing field in the european countries in the face of the crisis. i would like to remind you that we must also remember the cohesion of the countries that joined the european union after 2004. many of them need support today more than crisis countries because their citizens are worse off and their infrastructure is less developed. i expect that this will be reflected in these investment plans and that this money will be distributed fairly and equitably. thank you, sir.
mr president, the gang of socialists, i mean the right honourable members of this parliament, seem not to understand a very simple thing: to fight unemployment they need money. to get money they impose taxes. with the money they create two jobs and because of the taxes, three jobs are lost. it is as simple as that. if a company avoids taxes it can produce cheaper, it can sell more and if it sells more it creates jobs, thanks to mr juncker, but to mr juncker as the prime minister of the grand duchy of luxembourg, not to mr juncker as the president of the european commission. moreover i think that the european union must be destroyed.
in writing. the juncker commission's plan to boost investment in europe, which envisages a 15-fold leverage of the initial fund of €23 billion over three years, will be the main topic of the european leaders' talks. the juncker investment fund is expected to boost eu gdp by around €400 billion and create more than 1 million new jobs. however, there are also sceptical voices indicating that the proposed amount is far too small and that the european economy needs more real money. the second important topic of conversation at the meeting is the situation in the east. recently, we have seen russia's monetary and fiscal problems worsen. one of the many sources of this situation is the sanctions imposed by the eu and the us, which also confirms their justification. the 21st century cannot tolerate the kind of aggressive international action that was practiced in the 19th century. president putin after the annexation of crimea and the unleashing of hell on eastern ukraine must understand that aggression comes at a high price. at the same time, however, we cannot allow russia to collapse into economic chaos, because it is only recently that we have learned that the broken pride of this country is an even greater threat to international security. russia cannot be completely isolated and oppressed, but it must be talked to and tried to rebuild relations on special, hard terms.
ladies and gentlemen! the resolution amends the delegated act by rejecting the proposal to reduce the cod-end size to 35 cm and to keep it at the current level of 38 cm. the delegated act is contrary to the protection of the species, as it is not possible to protect fish by reducing the conservation dimension. it also interferes with the protection of the environment, because the killing of juveniles does not protect the environment. it is ultimately detrimental to the fisheries themselves, because the collapse of the cod stocks in the baltic sea is allowing the conservation dimension of cod to be reduced. i call on you to support this resolution.
in writing. - free trade is a vital source of economic growth, and so action to liberalise world trade is one of the main elements of eu policy. a prime example of this is the extension of the current trade preferences for ecuador from the beginning of 2015, when it will lose its gsp+ status, until the date of entry into force of the free trade agreement with the eu. the absence of any change in the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador will result in mutual benefits, as under the agreement ecuador undertakes to maintain the customs duties and quantitative restrictions on imports from the eu at the current level. the result will be to avoid reversing the upward trend currently characterising trade between ecuador and the eu. however, in order to materialize the mutual benefits of the extension of the trade preferences currently in force, they should be subject to several conditions, such as compliance by ecuador with the rules of origin, cooperation with the european commission in providing information on ecuador's compliance with these conventions and continued efforts to sign and ratify a free trade agreement with the eu. i would ask that the european commission closely monitor the fulfilment of these conditions.
in writing. those who live beyond their means are in debt. they can't pay their debts, they cut back, they try to survive. they often go bankrupt. the market is ruthless and gives no chance to the cheaters. some 4 000 small and medium-sized enterprises will be wound up during the current four-day session in strasbourg. many of them will fail because they will not be able to pay their credit obligations, many others because the eu bureaucracy is devising new rules that make it difficult for them to live and function in europe. the same bureaucracy that's been living above the state for years. the budget resolution voted today is a perfect example of this. the ep is already trying to determine how much the penalties will cost the budget, by doing everything it can to balance the budget and by making it fall on the shoulders of nation states and citizens. it's time to wake up. europe is waking up, the time of the eu bureaucracy living above the state and feeding off the citizens' taxes is over. the market is fair and soon it will be time to pay the bills for the constant borrowing and printing of money. i therefore voted against the budget resolutions.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the 2014 budget reconciliation has been approved and congratulations to everyone who voted za. the negotiations between parliament and the council were difficult, but the difficulties they brought are as likely to be forgotten as some of the outstanding bills. an additional eur 4,25 billion to settle the outstanding accounts of 2014, including over eur 4 billion under the so-called contingency margin, will certainly help stabilise the union's debt. continued delay in their payment would only open holes in the budgets for subsequent years. we must do everything we can to make the promise of full budgetary balance by 2016 a reality. the main objective of the repayment plan is to reduce the amount of debt gradually and this should be borne in mind. we are pleased that payments to companies working on eu-funded projects in the member states will finally be regulated. it is also a good thing that the european parliament is already very comfortable at the table with the commission and the council.
in writing. - i voted to pass the 2015 budget. in the context of this vote, i wanted to stress the need to maintain or even increase the funding for key eu programmes such as erasmus+ and horizon 2020. it is also necessary to implement the political declarations on support for these programmes and the securing of the means to implement them. in particular, i am concerned that despite the difficulties in securing payments for horizon 2020, the plan is to transfer eur 2.7 billion from that programme to the new investment plan. i believe that these two initiatives are of the utmost importance for the competitiveness of the union and should be complementary to each other. however, given the different way they are implemented, they should be provided with independent sources of funding. finally, i would point out that the budget must reflect the real needs of the specific actions and programmes, otherwise we will never be able to deal with the problem of unpaid commitments and we will have to adopt continuous adjustment budgets.
in writing. i welcome the final negotiations and the vote by parliament on the draft eu budget for 2015. the €145.32 billion for commitments and €141.21 billion for payments in the budget opens up a wide range of opportunities and opportunities for europe's further development. the 2015 budget allocated 2% more funds to projects compared to the 2014 budget, which means 1% more for payments. 88% of the general budget returns to the member states in the form of action grants, 6% is allocated to the eu's external policy and a further 6% to administration. parliament managed to restore the €0.5 billion that the council had proposed to cut from the appropriations to cover commitments relating to humanitarian aid, among other things. there is €45 million more for research and development programmes under horizon 2020, €16 million more for the erasmus+ student exchange programme and €32 million more for foreign policy. the higher funds were also allocated to the agencies dealing with bank controls and frontex. i congratulate the colleagues who took part in the negotiations and i welcome the success of the european parliament as a whole.
in writing. i would like to start by congratulating parliament's negotiators on the compromise reached on the 2015 budget. i think that we have in the end a balanced, good budget which will be an effective investment tool for creating jobs and stimulating growth in the european union, which is why i voted for it. importantly, the amount of eur 4,8 billion for the 2014 arrears was secured. i am even more pleased, however, to hear the declaration that a solution will be found to avoid the accumulation of unpaid invoices in the past. in 2010, the amount of invoices in arrears was eur 5 billion, while in 2014 it increased to eur 23 billion. so that means we're dealing with a growing structural problem. if we want the european union to be seen as a reliable and credible partner, we must avoid accumulating payment arrears, and i look forward to the commission's proposal on this matter as soon as possible.
in writing. the 2015 budget is too low at least €5 billion is missing to achieve important goals, in the area of cohesion (first and foremost). we have encountered resistance from the council, which has given little time to deeper debate on budgetary matters. however, we have achieved some important increases in the budgetary amounts on the payment side. these are not large sums in value terms, but they concern sensitive areas, such as erasmus, which is so important for students, and humanitarian aid, humanitarian aid for the millions of refugees who have come to turkey and lebanon.
in writing. we have adopted the eu budget for 2015 and a number of adjustments to the current budget for 2014. this is certainly very good news for the beneficiaries of eu funds. it is worrying, however, that this was another year in which budget negotiations took the form of open warfare between the eu institutions. the main reason for these clashes between the parliament and the commission and the eu council was the issue of unpaid bills, which have been rolled over from year to year for several years. of course, parliament understands the budgetary problems of the member states, but the fact that countries are unwilling to give funds for payments arising from commitments they have themselves made undermines the eu's credibility with its citizens and on the international stage. the success of parliament in recovering over eur 4 billion in additional unpaid bills in 2014 is all the more to be appreciated. this does not mean that the problem has disappeared, however, and it will certainly reappear in the course of the next negotiations. from the point of view of agriculture, the decision to finance support for farmers affected by the russian embargo from the general budget margin rather than from the so-called crisis reserve is a favourable solution. this means that the entire pool of the crisis reserve, i.e. around eur 450 million, remains available in 2015 if additional resources are needed to be mobilised for this purpose.
in writing. the resolution is an important document, as it concerns the reputation of carriers, the prevention of various types of infringements of community rules. it is also an opportunity to balance the interests of entrepreneurs and drivers. i stress, this is about european union rules. at the same time, this should serve to eliminate the arbitrary behaviour and regulation of some governments, e.g. the german government, which imposes on everyone the german minimum wage of eur 8,50 per hour. any questions about how this will be implemented?
in writing. - the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on transport and tourism on the draft regulation on the classification of serious infringements of eu rules which may lead to the loss of good repute by a road transport operator not only fails to protect the interests of both parties concerned, i.e. carriers and drivers, but also goes beyond the eu's competence by calling for the regulation at eu level of matters falling within the exclusive jurisdiction of the member states. the lack of a balanced approach to the implementation of cabotage operations within the eu and the incomplete interpretation of the social and economic conditions in the development of individual member states have convinced me to abstain from voting on this resolution.
in writing. we have made a historic decision as parliament. we recognize two states, israel and palestine. we expect this to facilitate peace negotiations and open a new chapter. the vote showed that europe has a balanced approach to the problem and that the high representative has a new, clear mandate to act.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because steel is still the main raw material for a revived industry. the mass production of material products, which includes steel metallurgy and its processing, typically requires long-term and expensive investments. companies, especially those at risk of relocating to third countries where environmental requirements are not as stringent as in the eu, have been subject to a large number of adverse destructive processes. the multinational corporations, having for years been reluctant to abandon production in europe, have not upgraded their metalworking and processing plants with new, innovative technologies. the commission therefore concludes that the measures at issue are imputable to the state and that they constitute state aid. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind. a number of targeted innovations are needed, both those upgrading existing technological processes and those that completely change these processes. in my view, research and development in the hydrogen and metallurgical processing industries should be encouraged in view of the future policy of decarbonising the eu industry.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution on the eu steel sector. its foundations were flawed. the biggest problem facing the sector is the high cost of doing business and the huge cost of electricity needed to maintain production. instead of subsidies, let's cut taxes, cut corruption, and get rid of the idea of cutting co2 emissions. it takes so little to spur growth in the steel sector. unfortunately, the resolution continues to highlight the european parliament's strange mania for linking green energy with economic growth. unfortunately, there's no such correlation in this department. green energy and co2 reduction is the key to the european steel industry. i support the so-called emissions leakage provisions. this is a big problem. but it is not the entrepreneur who is behind it, it is anyone who supports the development of the energy and climate package.
in writing. the steel sector remains strategically important for the union. reindustrialisation as a concept must take into account the production of steel as a product for processing. the machinery industry, construction, car manufacturing, etc. cannot do without steel. protecting the industry and the workers in the industry is a wise, supportive position. the protection of workers is paramount.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the protection of workers and the steel industry. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry on the union market. the ever-increasing costs of implementing climate policy, higher socio-environmental standards and high raw material and energy prices have made european producers less competitive with non-eu producers. in order to address this situation, it is important to step up efforts to prepare an industrial policy action plan, a sustainable european climate, energy and trade policy and a roadmap for initiatives to support the steel sector in the short and long term. this map should be aimed at improving the business environment and regulatory framework for steel production in europe. investing in research and innovation, for example under the 'horizon 2020' programme, which could, inter alia, contribute to the development of new, greener, resource and energy-efficient technologies, is also key to improving the competitiveness of the european steel industry. it is also necessary to develop multiannual plans to maintain and increase employment in the steel sector. in poland, for example, the sector employed around 130 000 workers before the restructuring and only 20 000 at present.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need to develop a comprehensive eu approach to migration. in line with the resolution, i believe that further options for legal migration should be considered. we must remember that european society is ageing and that there are already in some sectors and industries a shortage of workers which we are not able to fill. so migration is in a sense an unavoidable necessity that we have to use to fill gaps in the european labour market on the one hand and to help migrants who are seeking support in the european union on the other. i am pleased that this approach is in line with the priorities of president juncker, who believes that organising legal migration is in europe's long-term interest. but we need urgent action to reduce the number of tragedies of illegal immigrants trying to get into the union at any cost and to fight criminal groups, traffickers and people smugglers. in developing a more coherent, comprehensive, coordinated eu approach to migration, cooperation with third and transit countries on the causes of migration, protection, resettlement and return of migrants is also necessary. the protection of human rights must be a key priority in the eu's cooperation with third countries on the rights of migrants. regardless of the legal status of migrants, all countries should respect their dignity and human rights.
mr. chairman, please! the fact that torture could have been used on polish territory has caused a stir and outrage in polish public opinion, regardless of all the security reasons that are used to justify these practices and the fact that they were suspected of murdering many thousands of innocent people. today, a letter will be published by intellectuals and other public figures in poland, condemning the use of torture in our country. however, i would like to draw attention to a slightly different aspect of this matter. the double standards and the trust issues between allies. well, in compliance with u.s. law, the cia has not conducted this type of interrogation on u.s. soil. however, no similar respect was shown for polish law. also, some of the politicians who ruled poland at the time had too little respect for polish sovereignty and polish values. the united states was for us in communist-dominated eastern europe a symbol of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. unfortunately, now our trust has been betrayed, and that image of the united states has been greatly damaged. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, mr brok and mr iglesias have it absolutely wrong. democracy is a tyranny of the majority and the majority do not care for the principles of freedom and human rights, the majority wants safety and to obtain it, it will agree to torture, to kill, to almost everything. i move the european parliament to create an investigation committee, at least on the polish case, which is the most characteristic case of cia prisoners in europe because the polish government was denying everything and we have been denying what we can deny, and men who stubbornly denied the extent of torture in poland now occupy prominent positions in the present parliament. the main suspect is a man who as polish prime minister was the chief negotiator of the accession treaties at exactly the same time that he was negotiating with the cia. the dog is buried much deeper but i have no time to explain it now. i advise you to create an investigation committee. mr etheridge surely agrees with me.
mr president, justice, freedom and security are the basis of our values. there is no space for torture. we need a responsible assessment of the tools used by the cia and an evaluation of their consequences. in 2002, the polish authorities allowed the detention of cia prisoners suspected of terrorism, but not the use of torture. although the authorities at that time demanded and requested special memoranda relating to the rules of the functioning of that prison, there was no answer from the us side. in 2009, we signed an agreement with the us on some rules, particularly as regards subjecting american officers in service in poland to polish jurisdiction. the polish prosecutor is in the process of investigating. the us senate report was, and is, the internal duty of the american authorities, but the answer to the question of whether people in my country were tortured is my country’s obligation. however, we should learn our lesson. anybody can be confronted with the problem of how to ensure the security of our citizens and how to avoid the use of destructive tools when we have a duty to fight with the real threats, namely terrorism, as we have been reminded by what happened in the last two days.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the debate we're having today and the decisions we're going to make tomorrow seem a few years too late. the invitation to the georgians to join and open the way to the european union should have been presented in 2008, right after the russian invasion of georgia. it would be a clear, strong, and peaceful response to aggression. a clear sign that attempts to prevent the countries of eastern europe from cooperating with the west will only strengthen our solidarity and will have the opposite effect to the intentions of the aggressor. our unequivocal response at the time could have prevented the tragedy in ukraine today. it's a pity, but in poland we have a saying: "better late than never". some people will say: 'well, but we have not been able to disregard european standards in recent years.' but it's also time for us to understand -- and pope francis recently told us this in this house -- that they give us no less than we can give them. this is what european solidarity really is, this is how we think about the exchange of values, the exchange of goods. georgia's resistance to the russian invasion and the consolidation of an independent statehood have been a sufficient contribution not only to the life of europe but also to our own security. if solidarity is not to be an empty word, it is time we realised that we have a duty to systematically support the independence of the countries that have regained it after the collapse of the soviet union. it is good that our resolution is clear on this.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr ambassador, do you not realise that the european union is putting a bullet in its own leg in the form of a monetary union utopia, and that its costs are much higher than enlargement? and are you not aware that french exports to central european countries, after the accession of poland and other countries, have increased sixfold? you're really benefiting from this, so think about it sometimes.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr mamikins, on a report of such historic importance, because it is a historic moment which we will be able to say in a dozen years' time: this debate is where the matter began, here in the european union. to all those who doubt the union, who express very different and strange views, i would like to say: look, this is another country for which the european union is a target, which wants to adopt our values, which wants to introduce the legal system, the order that we have here in the european union. for georgia itself, this is the beginning of a great work. i know how much work is involved in joining the european union, but that warning was clear. they have to start by avoiding selective justice. there is no dilemma here, whether we choose putin or the european union. it is the georgians who have chosen the direction of the european union, but they have to take care of cooperation with russia themselves, and we can help them in this. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the decision of the european institutions and the reports submitted by the european parliament meet the expectations of the georgian society. as we point out in the resolution, there is a general and transnational consensus in georgia on integration with the west, including the eu and nato. it should be recalled that the path to this act was paved in 2008 by european leaders in memory of polish president lech kaczynski and french president nicolas sarkozy, who saved georgian statehood. while welcoming and approving the georgian partnership, as we did the ukrainian one, i believe that in our document we are overly restricting georgia, as in paragraph 45 of the resolution, for example, by calling on it to fully respect the union's environmental standards when building energy infrastructure. in preparing to work closely with this young democracy, the eu should be more flexible.
georgia's journey towards western values and the rationality of the union's economic model does not start today. it's been going on for a long time, it's embedded in history, it's been built by previous governments and it's continuing. part of it is the reforms that have already been made. its strength lies in the public's conviction that this choice for europe is important. today is a chance to unleash the new energies needed in the next stages of membership of the union. the kind of energy that brings people and politics together. the process of association is the alignment of national law with union standards, including by ensuring justice and the stability of the rule of law as the supreme rule. that's what transparency is all about. the key to a functioning state is not only the efficiency of public services, but also the strength of civil society. i believe that in this area and in the conditions for economic development, georgia will make the next leap. on georgia's road to the west, the european union cannot be a mere clerk. he must be a generous adviser who, after assessing, for example, the willingness to liberalize visas or the quality of offers to use european neighbourhood tools, will launch projects whose benefits will be felt quickly by georgian families. but there is something else that is needed on georgia's path to europe: a clear choice, visible and understandable to all partners and observers, including enemies like russia. dear friends from georgia, you are strong with your identity and wisdom, don't worry, we will make it!
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 december 2014. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the eu-georgia association agreement is the third agreement, after the ratification of the agreements with ukraine and the republic of moldova, concluded with the eastern partnership countries. the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) that emerges from its provisions offers an opportunity for the modernisation of associated economies and for investment inflows from the eu. however, the aim of the association agreement with georgia is not only to integrate georgia into the single market but also to cooperate in the fields of foreign and security policy and justice. the efforts made by georgia in recent years to move closer to the eu in the form of the alignment of its legislation and the ratification of the association agreement in june 2014 are of great importance for the future of the country, as they deepen its integration into the european mainstream in legal, economic, social and political terms. the agreement will also provide for the establishment of a visa-free regime for the citizens of georgia. the eu's borders should be open to the citizens of our eastern partnership neighbours so that trade, scientific and social exchanges can take place without unnecessary obstacles and activities benefiting both sides.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the khartoum process and the forthcoming horn of africa eu migration route initiative (2014/3001 ((rsp)).
madam, i want to thank you for having softened president roosevelt's speech in a meaningful way.
i'm closing the debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the arrest of several students in february on the pretext of criminal activity after they had participated in peaceful demonstrations two weeks earlier led to a wave of protests that took the form of demonstrations across the country. the opposition has joined the protests with its leader leopoldo lópez, who has been accused by venezuelan authorities of inciting protests. but he quickly surrendered to the justice system, calling it unjust and one that sends to prison venezuelans who want peaceful and democratic changes in the system. the arrest, detention and imprisonment of leopoldo lópez to this day is an unjustified, illegal and unlawful act. he was also the first to be arrested in the country, and was subsequently sentenced to death. it is time for the international community to take action against the regime of nicolás maduro and to contribute to the respect for freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights in that country.
the question asked by raising the blue card. it was held that such condemnation of the venezuelan government was unjustified. so i have a question for you: do you accept the inhuman and degrading treatment of the prison opposition? human excrement is thrown into the cells of leopoldo lópez and other arrested opposition activists in the middle of the night. during this time, the electricity and water are cut off so the prisoners can't wash off their dirt. in addition, it is played as loud as possible, and until dawn, music with loud anthems in honor of chávez: "chávez lives, the fight continues". do you accept this type of action?
mr. chairman, please! although slavery was only abolished in 1981, mauritania still lacks laws enforcing the ban. it is also worth noting that in mauritania it is hereditary and is associated with birth in this rather than another ethnic group. the european union cannot accept the violation of human rights, especially when it is happening in a country of the acp group with which it is cooperating. however, the efforts of outside countries are often not enough to change the status quo. first and foremost, the work of local activists is essential, hence my support for the work of biram dah abeid and other anti-slavery activists who have been imprisoned many times. i call for the release of biram dah abeid and the other abolitionists and for the nawakshut government to take a real stand against the slavery problem, because only by working towards democracy and stability will the european union be able to foster a fruitful relationship with mauritania and to support the development of that country.
mr. chairman, please! biram dah abeid is the leader of the anti-slavery initiative, which has about 9,000 activists. in 2013, he was awarded the united nations human rights prize for his work. sadly, on november 11, biram dah abeid along with 16 activists from his movement, after a peaceful march for the abolition of slavery, was convicted and imprisoned. we call for their immediate release. mauritania is a partner country of the european union under the acp association agreement. we therefore recall that the european union is opposed to slavery, child labour, mutilation and any other form of restriction of civil liberties. we call on the mauritanian government to respect its international commitments and to implement the relevant provisions to protect its own citizens. the european commission and the european external action service should strengthen their relations with the mauritanian authorities, which would allow the continuation of the mission of mauritanian activists to protect human rights and effectively combat the various forms of slavery.
mr. chairman, please! we are once again raising the issue of the persecution of human rights defenders by the security services in sudan in the european parliament. on december 6, 76-year-old dr. amin mekki medani, a well-known activist and advocate of the rule of law, was arrested. the arrest was in response to a declaration he signed on the 'establishment of a civil state and democracy', in which signatories, mainly from opposition parties, including the sudanese revolutionary front, call for an end to armed conflict in various regions of sudan, calling for legal, institutional and economic reforms. we strongly condemn the illegal detention of a seriously ill man, dr. medani, who is denied access to his medication. we call for his immediate release, as well as all other political prisoners. in light of the widespread repression in the country, we expect the sudanese authorities to end the unlawful detentions and to fulfil their obligations under the united nations declaration on the protection of fundamental civil liberties, including freedom of expression, assembly and religion.
in writing. once again, the european parliament draws public attention to sudan in its resolution. this african country, mired in the chaos of ongoing warfare and on the brink of humanitarian disaster, is moving further and further away from any international standards of respect for human rights. the unjustified arrest of dr. medani, a widely respected human rights activist, is a clear indication of this. looking at the situation in sudan, one can get the impression that the authorities of that country are working towards the destruction of the state and society. the restrictions on ngos trying to provide humanitarian aid to sudanese citizens in dire need are a sign that the sudanese authorities do not care about the lives of their own citizens. this country in the heart of africa is becoming a black spot on the world map, and unless the international community makes effective, peaceful efforts to resolve the conflicts in the region, the situation in sudan may soon prove to be destabilizing for the entire region. in calling for the unconditional release of dr medani, we also call on the sudanese authorities to come to their senses and change their attitude towards organizations and individuals who want to help the most needy in the country.
madam president! we have decided on the association between the european union and georgia and, of course, i voted in favour of the resolution, because anything that strengthens the independence of the countries of the east that emerged after the collapse of the soviet union fulfils the mandates of european solidarity. but i must express my disapproval of the fact that this solidarity is being denied by the imposition of a homosexual ideology on georgia. the social capital of europe was the georgian family march, which was attended by thousands of tbilisi residents at the invitation of the orthodox church. and the accusation of so-called homophobia against georgia is a real attack on the values enshrined in the law of central european countries, from lithuania to croatia. i would like to appeal in particular to the christian democrats: do not adopt the culture of the far left, vote as schuman, adenauer and de gasperi would have voted. and of course, joyeux noël, merry christmas and merry christmas to all of you.
