on behalf of the gue/ngl group, wildlife crime, such as poaching and illegal trade in species or illegal transit of wildlife products and derivatives, is now taking on an international dimension, placing it among the largest and most profitable illegal activities in the world. according to the resolution under discussion, the turnover associated with these crimes amounts, on an underestimate, to at least 19 billion dollars a year. as long as demand remains high and enforcement efforts are reduced, legitimate trade will continue to serve as a front for illegal trade and to stimulate poaching. in addition to a direct threat to the survival of several species, these crimes entail significant dangers to native ecosystems, for example from the uncontrolled spread of exotic species into the environment. the european union, which is both an important market and a transit route for illegal wildlife trade, has responsibilities in combating this phenomenon, which it must not undermine. in addition to strengthening efforts to enforce and strengthen international conventions, it is necessary, in a framework of enhanced cooperation between member states, to adapt the legal frameworks, in particular as regards sanctions, to pursue policies that discourage the consumption of products from vulnerable wild species and to support the recovery and conservation of wild species populations, and to combat poaching involving local communities, in particular in developing countries.
mr president, in recent years there have been cases of fraud in the food chain in the face of the failure of existing control systems. from horse meat, which has become beef, to dioxin contamination, to the entry into the food chain of products derived from cloned animals in an unauthorized manner, to the adulteration of alcoholic beverages, to products advertised as organic which are not, among other examples. these are scandals which show the increasing weakening of basic principles of public health, consumer rights, food quality and safety. this weakening is not only due to the inadequacies of the existing regulatory and control framework, but is above all inseparable from the growing deregulation and liberalization of agricultural and trade policies, the resulting complexity and increased extension of food chains, and the models of intensive export-oriented production that favour large-scale agribusiness and annihilate small and medium-sized farming. it is not enough to talk about regulation and control. scandals will continue - some known, others hidden - as long as these policies and production models are not radically changed.
mr president, it is clear to us that the rights of the selfemployed must be safeguarded and guaranteed. but this should not hide one of the biggest problems, one of the biggest realities, which is the fact that a large proportion of these selfemployed people are not really and in fact selfemployed. in several countries, like my own, in portugal, a significant proportion of these workers are fake self-employed because they have a supervisor, they have a fixed work schedule, they have a fixed salary, but they don't have a contract with rights. the vast majority of these workers have a permanent job but no actual contract. and these workers are mainly young people who see their lives mortgaged, they are workers who pay their social security and all the taxes, because the companies, many of which are often state-owned, do not want to take on their responsibilities. we largely agree with this report, but we cannot accept that those who should be working effectively should not see their rights guaranteed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this programme must put the consumer at the centre of the single market, in the full exercise of his rights. consumers must be well informed about their rights and how to exercise them and have full confidence in the various players in the single market. this is a way, a good way, to boost economic growth in the european union. in this connection, i proposed that the commission should establish a set of statistical indicators at eu level to assess and improve the functioning of the single market. this programme must contribute to the protection of the health, safety and economic interests of consumers, and promote their right to information, education and organisation in defence of their interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating mr rochefort on the excellent work he has done on this important report. when european consumers are empowered to make informed choices, the single market is strengthened and innovation and growth are stimulated. that is why consumer policy is a key pillar for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. european consumers need to reap the full benefits of the single market, to have full confidence in its functioning, to feel that their safety is guaranteed and that there are legal mechanisms to defend and protect them. in this regard, this programme, which will run for the next six years, will strengthen accessibility to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms through exchanges between bodies and by improving the dissemination of best practices. financial support for consumer organisations is being continued, and the provision of information to consumers is being improved and improved, in particular by providing reliable and easily accessible internet sites, including price comparison. a platform for consumer education exchange is established. with this new approach we are ensuring that consumers have a high level of protection, that their rights are respected, that they are placed at the centre of the european single market. in conclusion, this programme makes the citizens of the union much more cautious because they are the reason for the existence and functioning of the single market.
in writing. - i approve the present request for defence of the parliamentary immunity of member of the european parliament lara comi. i believe that the request made by the honourable member is in the public interest and is intrinsically linked to her duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. − parliament should exercise its powers in the field of privileges and immunities with a view to maintaining its integrity as a democratic legislative assembly and ensuring the independence of its members in the performance of their duties. i therefore agree that the facts which gave rise to this report should be ascertained and clarified.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the court held that the commission had failed to fulfil its obligation to state reasons for the decision to which it had been subject, and to state the reasons for the decision to which it had been subject, and to state the reasons for the decision to which it had been subject. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. i am therefore in favour of defending the parliamentary immunity of mrs lara comi.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked by mep laura comi to defend her parliamentary immunity in the context of the proceedings against her following a televised debate, for statements which could allegedly constitute the crime of slander, provided for and punished by the italian criminal code. the committee on legal affairs was called upon to give its opinion and considered that the facts of the case, as evidenced by the complaint and the hearing of lara comi, indicate that the statements made by the member not only concern matters of genuine public interest public contracts and organised crime , but also have a direct and obvious link with the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament. it is also necessary to take into account the apology promptly made by ms comi to the complainant, and subsequently reiterated on another national television programme. on the basis of the considerations set out in rule 6 (3) of the rules of procedure and after considering the reasons for and against defending immunity, i voted, following the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, to uphold the privileges and immunities of mrs comi.
in writing. - ms lara comi has applied for a defence of privileges and immunities in relation to a case brought against her arising from a libel complaint allegedly based on statements made during a televised debate. given that the honourable member spoke in her capacity as a member of the european parliament in the debate in question, the report provides that her immunity must be upheld. given the position set out in the report, based on respect for article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - i welcome this report, given that i believe that in the current economic, financial and social crisis and with scarce budgetary resources, the capacity for innovation is essential. i believe that innovation plays a key role in job creation and growth. i would stress and reiterate that investment in research is one of the thematic objectives of cohesion policy. in this context, i believe that the regions should set priorities for the financing of research and development. in my view, the regions should invest in research and innovation by promoting and enhancing their own strengths and comparative advantages. i believe that in order to achieve the objective of smart specialisations, greater synergy between universities, businesses and regional and local authorities should be encouraged.
in writing. − in a context of severe recession in europe, solutions are urgently needed to increase european competitiveness in a globalised world. these solutions cannot be achieved by re-applying the development models used in the past, but rather by a european commitment to specialisation and innovation, for the creation of added value. within the eu too, and as i have been arguing, states can only be competitive and aspire to meaningful economic growth if they specialise in what they do best. it makes no sense to have 28 states competing with each other in producing the same product or providing the same service, when these same 28 states are different and have different economic models and natural and social conditions. on the contrary, each of them should choose the one that best suits his own model and his own circumstances. with 28 competitive and growing states, the eu will also be more competitive on a global scale.
in writing. − smart specialisation is the way in which a region can take advantage of comparative advantages by taking into account its strengths and setting r&d&i priorities. the vision expressed in the report, which is in some ways the same as that which guided the adoption of the regulations on the structural funds for the period 2014-2020, deserves several points of criticism. the regions are being pushed to develop the so-called smart specialisation strategy, or else they will no longer receive the funds earmarked for operational programmes. if the priorities are not well defined, taking into account market developments, the region will have difficulty in developing this concept and consequently its financing may be called into question. if the priorities are right, taking account of market developments, then it is not the regions that set the priorities but those who guide the market's progress - the monopolies that rule the european economy. however much the report may spin around some of the concepts, in the end there will be regions which risk being excluded from the bulk of cohesion funding if they do not take up these same concepts. once again, the conditionality... we do not deny that there are positive aspects to this report. but the differences we have on some key aspects are obvious.
in writing. − in this era of economic recession and consequent budgetary shortages, as well as increasingly tough global competition, it is crucial for the eu to sustainably improve its capacity for innovation. in future, the use of the different european structural and investment funds should be facilitated by a common framework regulation. in addition, the common use of the european structural and investment funds should be particularly facilitated under horizon 2020, in particular to facilitate the participation in that programme of regions that still show considerable deficiencies in terms of research infrastructures and thus to close the innovation gap between the most advanced and the least favoured regions. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in the new 2014-2020 programming period, both member states and regions should invest in research, development and innovation (r&d&i) through smart specialisation. i voted in favour of this report because it allows for a more efficient future use of structural funds, such as the erdf, which are essential for the economic and social development of the regions for the next programming period.
in writing. − the european union needs to improve its capacity for innovation in a sustainable and effective way. to this end, this paper introduces the concept of smart specialisation, whereby a region, taking into account its strengths or comparative advantages, sets priorities for research, development and innovation. the strategy should ideally focus on activities that span several sectors and technology domains with effects on the regional economy. there should also be active cooperation between all the actors, from research to the administrative level in companies. the rapporteur also advocates interaction between regions, which could be beneficial in enhancing the union's competitiveness. for these reasons, and because i believe that the strategy promotes an effective cohesion policy, i voted in favour of adopting this document.
in writing. − smart specialisation is the way in which a region can take advantage of comparative advantages by taking into account its strengths and setting r&d&i priorities. the regions are being pushed to develop the so-called smart specialisation strategy, or else they will no longer receive the funds earmarked for operational programmes. if the priorities are not well defined, taking into account market developments, the region will have difficulty in developing this concept and consequently its financing may be called into question. if the priorities are right, taking account of market developments, then it is not the regions that set the priorities but those who guide the market's progress - the monopolies that rule the european economy. however much one may twist some of the concepts in this report, in the end there will be regions which risk being excluded from the bulk of cohesion funding if they do not take up these same concepts, which is a negative thing.
in writing. - i approve this report as i agree that the results of the votes need to be clarified, taking into account that the voting procedures vary depending on the committees. i am in favour of a procedure which respects the single vote provided for, independently of the recommendation by the commission. the required majority depends on the article of the tfeu which constitutes the legal basis for the proposed act. if there is no indication, the majority of votes is accepted, on the contrary, if the act is rejected it is because the majority was not obtained. i think that by adopting clearer rules on voting procedures we are strengthening the transparency and democratic character of the committees.
in writing. - the different interpretations of the various parliamentary committees on the way in which the european parliament conducts its approval procedure justified the present attempt to standardise it without completely restricting the possibility of the institution to deliver an opinion but without calling into question the provisions of the treaties. from a legal point of view, it seems to be an attempt to strike a fair balance which i hope will allow for greater procedural consistency and the smooth functioning of the approval process.
in writing. - this report deals with the way in which the european parliament exercises its powers under the treaty of lisbon in practice. the areas where parliament's consent is required are: association agreements, accession agreements, agreements establishing a specific institutional framework, agreements with significant budgetary consequences for the eu, adoption of the multiannual financial framework, application of the flexibility clause, establishment of enhanced cooperation, uniform procedure for the election of members of the european parliament, composition of the parliament and implementing measures for the eu's own resources system. in all these cases, although parliament's consent is required, under conditions which may vary (simple or qualified majority), in none of these areas can parliament change the content of the proposals submitted to it only approve or reject them. in practice, certain procedural questions have arisen which are now being clarified by revising the rules applicable to the rules of procedure with a view to establishing the approval procedures. the rapporteur proposes, for legal clarity, that the approval/rejection procedure be formally separated from the reasoning and recitals accompanying the decision, which are now to be set out in a separate resolution/recommendation drawn up by the relevant committee. we are not opposed to the solution found.
in writing. - the approval procedure constitutes, with the treaty of lisbon, a special legislative procedure within the meaning of article 289 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which is exhaustively codified. the voting practices and the content of reports in the context of the approval procedures have changed and it was necessary for the rules of procedure of the european parliament to incorporate these updates.
in writing. - this report deals with the way in which parliament gives its consent in cases where the consent of the european parliament is required under the treaties (consent procedure). the cases in which the approval procedure applies are exhaustively defined by the treaties. the aim of this report is to standardise the approval procedures by revising the applicable rules of the rules of procedure with a view to clarifying the approval procedures, making them more transparent and possibly more effective. i therefore support this initiative and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this document aims to clarify three aspects of parliament's approval procedure, making the rules more transparent and more efficient, in particular as regards recitals, the possibility of tabling amendments and the meaning of a negative vote. the report also maintains the possibility for the committee responsible to submit an interim report to parliament. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report deals with the way in which the european parliament exercises its powers under the treaty of lisbon in practice. the areas where parliament's consent is required are: association agreements, accession agreements, agreements establishing a specific institutional framework, agreements with significant budgetary consequences for the eu, adoption of the multiannual financial framework, application of the flexibility clause, establishment of enhanced cooperation, uniform procedure for the election of members of the european parliament, composition of the parliament and implementing measures for the eu's own resources system. in all these cases, although parliament's approval is required, under conditions which may vary (simple or qualified majority), in none of these areas can parliament change the content of the proposals submitted to it - only approve or reject them. the rapporteur proposes, for legal clarity, that the approval/rejection procedure be formally separated from the reasoning and recitals accompanying the decision, which are now to be set out in a separate resolution/recommendation drawn up by the relevant committee. we are not opposed to the solution found.
in writing. - i support this report because i think it is valid and positive to set targets for emissions from light commercial vehicles. i believe this measure will help reduce fossil fuel consumption. by applying rules on co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles, the eu encourages the use of alternative, innovative and more environmentally friendly technologies. i believe that this report promotes the development of new mobility technologies for the benefit of the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles, as i believe that this legislation will benefit european citizens and the european car industry. setting clear co2 emission reduction targets will not only deliver environmental and climate benefits, but will also help to achieve greater fuel savings and maintain the technological leadership of european industry.
in writing. − in 2011, the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 510/2011 with the aim of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. i therefore agree that a new target for the period after 2020 should not be introduced before at least 1 january 2018, when a new test cycle should be fully operational. technological developments and a possible reduction of co2 emissions should be taken into account before considering a new target. in addition, according to the current regulation (eu) no 510/2011, each low emission vehicle emitting less than 50 g co2/km earns additional credits for the manufacturer's fleet. additional credits (or super credits) are an important instrument to encourage the placing on the market of low-emission vehicles and to encourage manufacturers to develop low-co2 technologies. since it is not yet known what the main low-emission technology will be in the future, the super-credit scheme should be maintained.
in writing. the report by mr krahmer looks at the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 510/2011 to define ways of achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. the road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the european union and its emissions are continuing to increase. however, given that smes are the largest users of light commercial vehicles and account for more than 99.8% of enterprises and 67.4% of employment in the eu, targets that would harm them could not be put forward. we must combine ambition with realism and common sense. so i think the commitment made less than two years ago is a good commitment compared to the average of 203 g co2/km in 2007. the 147 g co2/km target represents a 28% reduction and major investments in new technologies by manufacturers.
in writing. − regulation (eu) no 510/2011, which aims to reduce carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from new light commercial vehicles, states that the european commission should confirm the feasibility of the long-term average fleet target of 147g co2/km from 2020 and set out the modalities for achieving this target. the rapporteur proposes that a new target for the period after 2020 should not be introduced before 2018 at the latest. time when a new test cycle (globally harmonised light commercial vehicle test procedure) is expected to be fully operational, to be adopted in 2014, and the 147g co2/km target confirmed from 2020. the position of our group, which we support, is that the proposal presented is very unambitious and unsatisfactory, as it does not add much to the regulation itself, other than to propose super credits for low-emission vehicles and to agree with the european commission's approach to keeping eco-innovation in the proposal. failure to identify or implement concrete ways of achieving this will have negative effects on vehicle manufacturers, parts suppliers, purchasers and the environment. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. − we must continue our efforts to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. it is therefore advisable to maintain the reduction targets to 147 g co2 per km from 2020. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report in which parliament sets a target of 147 g/km of average co2 emissions for new light commercial vehicles registered in the eu by 2020. this measure will apply to manufacturers producing more than 1000 vehicles per year. the regulation also provides for the introduction of a new test procedure for the measurement of co2 emissions which is more realistic and reliable. i am confident that the objective of stimulating research and innovation in the automotive sector will be achieved and that green growth and jobs will be promoted, improving the international competitiveness of the union industry while reducing the european union's dependence on oil imports.
in writing. − as part of the strategy to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles, the european parliament and the council adopted in 2011 regulation no 510/2011, which requires the commission to confirm the feasibility of the 147g co2/km target from 2020 and to lay down the necessary modalities for this. this document argues that this objective should be maintained, as there has been no change in environmental or economic circumstances, the development cycle of light commercial vehicles should be taken into account and, furthermore, a change in the objective would undermine the overall credibility of the long-term objectives. the rapporteur therefore proposes that no new target should be introduced before 1 january 2018 at the latest and stresses that before that date, technological developments and a possible reduction in co2 emissions should be taken into account.
in writing. − regulation (eu) no 510/2011, which aims to reduce carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from new light commercial vehicles, states that the european commission should confirm the feasibility of the long-term average fleet target of 147g co2/km from 2020 and set out the modalities for achieving this target. the rapporteur proposes that a new target for the period after 2020 should not be introduced before 2018 at the latest. time when a new test cycle (globally harmonised light commercial vehicle test procedure) is expected to be fully operational, to be adopted in 2014, and the 147g co2/km target confirmed from 2020. the proposal presented is very unambitious and unsatisfactory, as it adds little to the regulation itself, other than to propose super credits for low-emission vehicles and to agree with the european commission's approach to keeping eco-innovation in the proposal.
in writing. − i support this report as i believe that the purpose of the consumer programme 2014-2020 is to empower european consumers with greater information power to support informed choices. making more information available to consumers helps to strengthen confidence and growth in the eu's internal market. i believe that priority should be given to issues such as safety, the availability of more information about the contents and origin of the products we consume. i am in favour of better informing consumers about their rights by providing information and promoting national, regional and local support and information programmes. in short, i believe it is imperative to promote a more transparent and safe market for consumers.
in writing. − consumer rights and their protection in community law is one of the main pillars of the functioning of the internal market. while i believe that adequate consumer protection and safety is fundamental to the proper functioning of markets and trade, i also believe that such protection should be as uniform as possible in the union and adequately funded. the commission proposal for a regulation aims to establish a financing framework for eu actions in the field of consumer policy for the period 2014-2020, which provides for a budget of eur 175 million for 7 years. this proposal seems to ensure a high level of consumer protection in the european union and to allow for greater respect for their rights.
in writing. the report by mr rochefort looks at the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the consumer programme 2014-2020. the programme puts the consumer at the centre of the single market in the full enjoyment of his rights. consumers must be well informed about their rights and how to exercise them, and have full confidence in the various players in the single market. this is how we will boost economic growth in the eu. to this end, it should contribute to the protection of the health, safety and economic interests of consumers, and promote their right to information, education and organisation in order to defend their interests. consumer information and participation are cross-cutting priorities and therefore must be present, wherever possible, in all actions financed under the programme and grouped according to the following four objectives: safety, information and education, rights and reparation, enforcement.
in writing. − this report is on the proposal to set up a multiannual consumer programme for the period 2014-2020. this programme aims to contribute to ensuring consumer protection, empowering consumers and placing them at the heart of the internal market. there is a fallacious assumption which often frames the debates we have here on consumer protection policy: the more the single market is deepened, the more the eu's successive liberalising agendas are deepened, the more competition is deepened, the more consumer rights will be safeguarded. but reality exposes this fallacy. the internal market, i.e. the policies of liberalization, privatization and deregulation of the economy, have meant for the economically most vulnerable countries, such as portugal, the destruction of their productive capacity, the decrease in their exports, the increase in imports in sectors such as energy and food, which have left them in situations of extreme external dependence. this regulation is in full harmony with the fallacy mentioned above and with its general objectives: privatization of the energy, transport, postal, telecommunications, banking and insurance sectors, liberalization of essential public services. all of which resulted in less consumer protection.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to ensure a high level of consumer protection in the european union and to allow for greater respect for consumers' rights. this regulation should enable the union to respond to the new challenges posed by consumer policy by 2020. more money should have been made available to achieve these objectives.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to ensure a high level of consumer protection in the european union and to allow for greater respect for consumers' rights. the commission proposal for a regulation, which i voted in favour of because i agree with its basic objectives, aims to establish a framework for financing eu actions in the field of consumer policy for the period 2014-2020. this is in line with the figures provided by the commission in its proposal entitled 'a budget for europe 2020', which provides for a budget of eur 175 million for 7 years, or eur 25 million per year in constant prices (i.e. eur 197 million for 7 years in current prices).
in writing. − this report looks at the proposal to establish a multiannual consumer programme for the period 2014-2020. this programme aims to contribute to ensuring consumer protection, empowering consumers and placing them at the heart of the internal market. the internal market means, in practice, the implementation of the policies of liberalization, privatization and deregulation of the economy, which have meant for the economically most vulnerable countries, such as portugal, the destruction of their productive capacity, the decrease in their exports, the increase in imports in sectors such as energy and food, which have left them in situations of extreme external dependence. this regulation is fully in line with the general objectives of so-called competitiveness. it does not take into account that these same policies result in the privatization of the energy, transport, postal, telecommunications, banking and insurance sectors, the liberalization of essential public services, and the endangerment of consumer protection. despite our political position, we understand the financial importance this programme can have for various consumer organisations.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that this commission proposal aims to bring the regulation in question into line with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. since a substantial part of the legislation on trade policy is aligned with articles 290 and 291 tfeu, thanks to the so-called trade omnibus regulations. i am in favour of amendments reflecting the amendments proposed in both acts. i believe that this implies a real involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts, such as the limitation of the delegation of power to tacitly extendable five-year periods, the extension of the period for a possible objection to draft delegated acts from two to four months and the modification of the implementation of the written procedure. i am also in favour of deleting references to the committee's procedure for the single cmo regulation. this removal ensures that the right of control over the implementing acts necessary for the management of the quota system remains within the competence of the international trade commission.
in writing. as the rapporteur expressly states in his explanatory statement, the resolution in question is designed to bring the regulation in question once again into line with the post-lisbon regime. the legal interpretation of the need for such adaptation and the amendments proposed to the commission proposal have been accepted by the other groups, particularly the ppe, which supported them and which, in general, strengthen the role of parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts.
in writing. − the main objective of this report is to bring the abovementioned council regulation into line with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the final result of the negotiations with the council, which we are voting on today, has not substantially altered the initial report. it only, regrettably, reduces the time of parliament to object to a delegated act. the report is in essence an adaptation of the treaty of lisbon, but it must be examined in the light of the profound significance of the treaty, particularly in the field of commercial policy. the lisbon treaty stipulates that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. in other words, the states have been deprived of an essential instrument of economic policy. the interests in the commercial field are, of course, different from country to country, because the respective economies, fragility and potential of each country are different. the overlapping of the interests of the strongest with those of the weakest, in this as in other areas, entails tremendous damage to weaker economies, as is the case with portugal. the effects of free trade policies on the restructuring of important national productive sectors are illustrated.
in writing. - the proposal aims to bring council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and wheat mixture with rye, bran, germ and other residues into line with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty. that regulation confers on the commission the power to adopt the necessary implementing measures. it also gives it the power to make adjustments to that regulation in the event of adjustments to the volumes and other conditions relating to the quota system, in particular by a decision approving an agreement with one or more third countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the commission proposes to amend the regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereals products to bring them into line with the treaty of lisbon. this regulation confers on the commission the power to adopt the necessary implementing measures and to amend this regulation in the event of adjustments to the volumes and other conditions relating to the quota system, in particular by decisions to conclude agreements with third countries. those powers should be adjusted to the post-lisbon regime. this implies genuine involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts, the limitation of the delegation of power to tacitly extendable five-year periods, the extension of the period for possible objection to draft delegated acts from two to four months and the modification of the implementation of the written procedure. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to align council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas with articles 290 and 291 tfeu. the amendments proposed include the involvement of parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts and the limitation of the delegation of power for five years. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the report is essentially an adaptation of the treaty of lisbon, but it must be analysed in the light of the profound significance of the treaty, particularly in the field of commercial policy. the lisbon treaty stipulates that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. in other words, the states have been deprived of an essential instrument of economic policy. the interests in the commercial field are, of course, different from country to country, because the respective economies, fragility and potential of each country are different. the overlapping of the interests of the strongest with those of the weakest, in this as in other areas, entails tremendous damage to weaker economies, as is the case with portugal. the effects of free trade policies on the restructuring of important national productive sectors are illustrated.
in writing. - i am in favour of two amendments to the commission proposal for reasons of consistency of trade legislation. i believe that they reflect the changes resulting from the two omnibus regulations. the commission proposal refers, for the three regulations, to the committee procedure provided for in the adjusted regulation. it establishes a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products (single cmo regulation). i support the deletion of this reference and propose that a new provision on committee procedure be added to each of the amended regulations. this can ensure that the application of the written procedure as a result of the trade omnibus regulations is changed. in addition to this, the three amended regulations, rather than the single cmo regulation, will become the basic acts for future implementing acts. this will allow the right of scrutiny of those implementing acts to remain with the committee on international trade and not with the committee on agriculture. i am convinced that this is the correct way of monitoring the application of legislation in the field of the common commercial policy, with article 207 tfeu as its legal basis.
in writing. - as the legislation on commercial policy is in the process of being harmonised with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, this commission proposal, like many others, has this express purpose. the line taken by parliament, in particular as regards its role in delegated acts, tends to diverge from that of the other institution, and the latter should therefore emphasise it wherever possible. i believe that the commission should not interpret parliament's positions as an obstacle to its action but as a legitimate exercise of democratic control which, if properly understood and applied, i believe will result in the benefit of the european union and the transparency of its action.
in writing. - the main objective of this report is to bring legislation in this area into line with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. the final outcome of the negotiations with the council does not introduce any substantive changes. however, the time available to parliament to object to a delegated act has been reduced. however, this report must be assessed in its deeper meaning, taking account of the positions of principle on the treaty and its provisions on trade policy. the lisbon treaty stipulates that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. the interests in the commercial field are, of course, different from country to country, because the respective economies, the fragility and potential of each are different. the overlapping of the interests of the strongest with those of the weakest, in this and other areas, is detrimental to weaker economies, as in the case of portugal, which is in the hands of the commercial interests of the economic groups of the eu powers, especially germany, which are often opposed to the interests of the national productive fabric. in this particular case, we are dealing with an example of import of a product crucial to portugal, and the criteria for safeguarding the interests of each country in determining the import conditions are obviously different depending on the country.
in writing. - the commission proposal is to harmonise the three council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the post-lisbon treaty regime on implementing and delegated acts (articles 290 and 291 tfeu). the harmonization of a number of regulations has been necessary in order to bring them into line with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - this report is based on the commission proposal on the harmonisation of three council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the post-lisbon treaty regime on implementing and delegated acts. a whole series of legislation in the field of the common commercial policy is in the process of being harmonized through two regulations, the procedures for which are still in progress and will be the subject of negotiations between the two co-legislators. in the interests of legal consistency, parliament proposes amendments concerning the participation of the european parliament in the preparation of delegated acts, the limitation of the delegation of power to the commission for a period of five years, with tacit extension for an equal period, and the extension of the possible extension of the period for objecting to a draft delegated act from two to four months, thus extending the examination period from four months (2+2) to six months (2+4). i have no objection to voting in favour of this procedure.
in writing. - the commission proposal aims to align council regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and (ec) no 1506/98 on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey, as regards the delegated and implementing powers to be conferred on the commission by articles 290 and 291 tfeu which set out the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. among the various amendments tabled, the call for parliament to be involved in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts is noteworthy. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the main objective of this report is to bring legislation in this area into line with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. the time available to parliament to object to a delegated act has been reduced. however, this report must be assessed in its deeper meaning, taking account of the positions of principle on the treaty and its provisions on trade policy. the lisbon treaty stipulates that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. the interests in the commercial field are, of course, different from country to country, because the respective economies, fragility and potential of each country are different. the overlapping of the interests of the strongest with those of the weakest, in this as in other areas, is detrimental to weaker economies, as is the case with portugal. in this particular case, we are dealing with an example of import of a product crucial to portugal, and the criteria for safeguarding the interests of each country in determining the import conditions are obviously different depending on the country.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that aromatised wines are of great economic importance in the wine sector of the european union, with traditional producers well established in many member states. these are important issues relating to the rules for the definition, description, presentation and labelling of aromatised wine products and the establishment of criteria for the recognition of geographical indications. i would remind you that the european union accounts for 90% of the global production of aromatised wine products. i agree that this proposal should update the legal framework for this economic activity and give substance to the geographical indication of aromatised wine products. i also believe that there is a clear need to update the existing rules in the light of technological developments, innovation, market developments and consumer expectations in relation to quality and production methods.
in writing. - i am completely in favour of the restriction on the standards for the sangria name. i am particularly pleased that this concerns only beverages produced in portugal and spain. protecting the term sangria is to maintain a reference to an instantly identifiable drink anywhere in the world. any other country wishing to produce this drink will have to add to the name sangria the complement of the sales denomination of the aromatized wine-based drink, in addition to the name of the member state where the drink was designed.
in writing. the report by mr bartolozzi deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products. it updates the sales denominations and brings them into line with consumer information legislation. the text also aligns european standards with the requirements of the world trade organisation (wto). aromatised wine products play an important role for consumers, producers and the agricultural sector in the european union in general. the eu accounts for about 90% of the world's production of aromatised wine products (about 3 million hectolitres per year). in this report rules were approved which only allow the sales denomination sangria to be used in drinks produced in portugal and spain. the purpose of this measure is to protect the term sangria, which originates from the two iberian countries, by limiting its use by other member states to supplementary and optional product information. this sales denomination may therefore only be used in portugal and spain. i think that the updates to the regulation on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products were equally important.
in writing. − the main objectives of the proposal are to improve the applicability, readability and clarity of eu legislation on aromatised wine products through specific criteria for product designation, contributing to a well-defined quality policy. the report provides safeguards for protected geographical indications, not allowing any kind of misleading information, nor labelling with words such as style, type, etc., when a product does not meet the established prerequisites. it protects sales denominations, such as the sangria denomination, which can only be used if it is produced in portugal or spain (otherwise the label must state that it is a wine-based flavoured product). it protects consumers by allowing only the use of wine ethyl alcohol, and the data relating to its sugar content (dry, extra-dry, sweet, etc.) may be added to the sales denominations, but always in accordance with the standards and percentages established. as regards quality policies, it is provided that member states may lay down more stringent rules on production and description. for all these reasons, and especially in order to provide greater protection and information to consumers, to prevent misleading practices, to comply with the standards of transparency, we voted in favour.
in writing. - aromatised wine products play an important role for consumers, producers and the agricultural sector in the european union in general. they represent a significant part of the european wine sector and constitute a very important market from a qualitative and quantitative point of view, both domestically and internationally. this proposal for a commission regulation aims to update regulation (eec) no 1601/91 laying down general rules on the definition, description and presentation of aromatized wines, aromatized wine-based drinks and aromatized wine-product cocktails.
in writing. - aromatised wine products play an important role for consumers, producers and the agricultural sector in the european union in general. they also represent a significant part of the european wine sector and constitute a very important market from a qualitative and quantitative point of view, both domestically and internationally. the eu accounts for around 90% of the world's production of aromatised wine products (around 3 million hectolitres per year), with traditional productions rooted in many member states, mainly in the central and south, but also in the north and east of the continent. by this regulation, the european parliament adopted rules restricting the sales denomination sangria to beverages produced in portugal and spain. the protection of the term sangria, which originates in these two countries, is included in the updated regulation on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products. in agreeing with this measure i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in the present case, and at the time of the vote, i followed the indication of a vote against expressed by my political group. the justification is that there is a loophole in this legislation which allows sangria, as a product of portuguese or spanish wine, to be made with grapes or wine from outside these countries, the origin of these grapes or wine being further disguised by the additives traditionally used in the confection of this product. this does not ensure proper consumer information or the necessary support for local wine production, which should be the objectives of the legislation. this vote does not, however, mean that i am against the protection of the sangria designation of origin as being specifically portuguese or spanish. i am in favour of protecting the origin of this product, as is the case with other traditional products of certain geographical origins. for the reasons set out above, i believe that legislation could and should have gone further in protecting the interests of consumers and producers.
in writing. - aromatised wine products play an important role for the agricultural sector in the european union. the proposal aims to update the general rules on the definition, designation and presentation of aromatised wines, aromatised wine-based drinks and aromatised wine-product cocktails marketed in the european union. the rapporteur calls for greater clarity in legislation on these products and the introduction of a well-defined quality policy. another objective is also alignment with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) by applying uniform rules on geographical indications, administrative and physical checks and the exchange of information. i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. − the main objectives of the proposal are to improve the applicability, readability and clarity of eu legislation on aromatised wine products through specific criteria for product designation, contributing to a well-defined quality policy. the report provides safeguards for protected geographical indications, not allowing any kind of misleading information, nor labelling with words such as style, type, etc., when a product does not meet the established prerequisites. it protects sales denominations, such as the sangria denomination, which can only be used if it is produced in portugal or spain (otherwise the label must state that it is a wine-based flavoured product). it protects consumers by allowing only the use of wine ethyl alcohol, and the data relating to its sugar content (dry, extra-dry, sweet, etc.) may be added to the sales denominations, but always in accordance with the standards and percentages established. general agreement.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the amendments made to the original proposal. i believe that carbon capture and storage technology should not be seen as competitive in the european energy network, although i recognise its importance in terms of co2 reductions from industrial sources such as steel, iron, chemicals, cement and refineries. i believe that carbon capture and storage technology should remain a decision of the member states. i support the idea that energy efficiency and renewable energy should remain the main focus of european legislation, for the benefit of the environment and the mitigation of climate change. i also believe that carbon capture and storage technology should be considered as a transitional solution in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from industrial sources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on carbon capture and storage, as i believe that this technology could provide a transitional solution to ensure emission reductions in certain industries. i believe, however, that european climate policies and their funding programmes should continue to focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in writing. − the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) has the potential to enable the eu to meet its 2050 targets for reducing carbon emissions at the lowest cost, and is a necessary tool, especially to reduce co2 emissions from highly polluting industries. ccs could also contribute to the diversity and security of energy supply, while maintaining and creating employment opportunities. i also believe that we must find ways of ensuring that technology is used to play a role in combating the threat of global warming.
in writing. − the report by colleague chris davies is on the 2013 implementation report: development and application of carbon capture and storage technology in europe. co2 separation and capture technology has been around since the 1930s. the transport of co2 by pipeline is common worldwide. in sleipner, norway has been injecting 1 million tonnes of co2 into the deep, rocky north sea soil every year since 1996, with no sign of any unexpected movements. i believe that if we want to promote innovation, reduce costs and accept this technology as a viable option then we have to come to an agreement in a way that focuses thinking and encourages the use of some of the existing funds. we should therefore support the development of a range of flagship projects in the field of carbon capture and storage. i believe that this technology has an important role to play in combating the threat of global warming.
in writing. − all paragraphs in this report support the idea that carbon capture and storage (ccs) is a key tool, an appropriate, reliable and useful technique, which needs to be supported by urgent public and private investment in climate policy. we have serious doubts about the urgency of promoting a method and a technique which still needs to be studied and developed further and which, at its present stage of development, has very significant impacts on the environment, in addition to very high costs. the report recognises the technique as economically advantageous mainly for the big polluters, industries that emit large amounts of carbon dioxide (co2). we support investment in research and in the study of methods and techniques useful for reducing the atmospheric concentration of co2, as will be the case with cac. but it will not be just a method or technique that will solve the problems of increasing atmospheric co2, as this report might lead you to believe. we do not consider cfc to be the key response to achieving the objective of keeping global temperature rise below safe limits, as the rapporteur does. we voted against it.
in writing. - the expectations of the european union to become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) were very high five years ago. the deployment of ccs technology is key to achieving a dramatic reduction in global co2 emissions by 2050. however, the results achieved in the development of this technology were not what was expected. we need to reinvest in this technology, which will contribute in the future to meeting the targets set for reducing co2 emissions. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the expectations of the european union to become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) were very high five years ago. not only had the european council embraced the idea of having up to 12 ccs demonstration projects in operation by 2015, but it had also approved a proposal by the european parliament for a financing mechanism (ner300) that appeared to be able to provide sufficient public support to ensure the realisation of these projects. however, there were few concrete results. in this report, parliament proposes ways of ensuring the application of a technology which has a role to play in combating the threat of global warming. i have voted in favour of this report, in accordance with the objectives.
in writing. − carbon capture and storage (ccs) is key to drastically reducing global co2 emissions by 2050. five years ago, the european union was aiming to become the world leader in cwc implementation, but today little is visible. as the rapporteur points out in this document, the main reason is that a business model for the promotion of private investment has not been developed, either by the union or by the member states. the political and financial support of member states for the implementation of the cwc is crucial and those who recognise its potential should play an active part in promoting its development. it also stresses that the union must also take action to promote cfsp and must develop an effective strategy to that end. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. −we support investment in research and the study of methods and techniques useful for reducing atmospheric co2 concentration, as will be the case with ccs. but it will not be just a method or technique that will solve the problems of increasing atmospheric co2, as this report might lead you to believe. we do not consider cfc to be the key response to achieving the objective of keeping global temperature rise below safe limits, as the rapporteur does. we voted against it.
in writing. − i welcome this report as i believe that a new action plan for ehealth for 2012-2020 is needed, in line with the reality of the challenges facing the health system today. i believe that the european union should support the member states in creating conditions for better functioning of health systems at national, regional and local level. particular attention should be paid to the most isolated regions and localities with difficult access to health centres and hospitals. in social terms, i believe that member states should give priority to the provision of services tailored to the most vulnerable groups in society, such as the elderly, children, the chronically ill and the most disadvantaged groups, in order to reduce social inequalities. i support the idea that member states should make use of the innovative technological means available in the field of health in order to respond more effectively to existing needs. i believe that ehealth has enormous potential and can significantly improve access to and quality of health services for citizens in the european union, but that an appropriate legal framework needs to be developed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for ehealth 2012-2020, as it includes proposals that could help to respond to some of the challenges facing health systems today, notably in the context of an ageing population and the consequent increase in chronic diseases. ehealth programmes will also address the needs of people living in remote areas and help reduce waiting times at health services.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic health record systems, which are essential for the protection of personal data. however, by its very nature, ehealth requires special care and appropriate safety rules so that both the general public and healthcare professionals have confidence and believe in the benefits resulting from its applications. personal data protection, confidentiality, privacy or liability are some of the issues that need to be properly addressed if ehealth is to be a reality in the 21st century.
in writing. − the report by colleague pilar ayuso focuses on the action plan for online health 2012-2020 - innovative healthcare for the 21st century. this action plan aims to improve the quality and effectiveness of healthcare in the 21st century and to make it more universal. the global market for telemedicine is estimated to be worth usd 11,6 billion in 2011 and could reach usd 27,3 billion by 2016. high quality healthcare is a recognised fundamental right and online healthcare can be part of the answer to today's problems as a way to improve access to healthcare for people living in remote areas. the aim is to improve working conditions, reduce waiting times and, above all, contribute to the provision of safe, effective and quality health care. i think it is essential that these applications are legally secure and that data protection, confidentiality and privacy are always guaranteed. in developing these projects we must always take the interests of the patient into account and improve the quality of health care for eu citizens.
in writing. − online healthcare can have a positive impact on both the lives of patients and the efficiency of health systems. however, it is important that some essential points as regards health care be safeguarded. healthcare provided via the internet or telephone should not be a substitute for essential personal care, but rather a complement and a tool to overcome temporary geographical difficulties. the development of e-health systems should not create additional barriers for patients without knowledge of information technologies. exchanges of patient data and information, which must be confidential and properly protected, must be safeguarded, and physical distance between doctor and patient cannot mean or justify a lack of responsibility or failures in the healthcare provided. the report we are presenting essentially welcomes these concerns. we have reservations, however, about the references to the private management of these lines and the economic advantage that the lines present. the lack of clarity in the refusal to divert investment in health care facilities and services, such as hospitals and technical facilities, in less developed areas.
in writing. − ehealth is a means of improving the quality and effectiveness of healthcare in the 21st century and a way of making its provision more universal. the online health market has been growing and is expected to continue to do so. the rapid increase in the amounts budgeted for health expenditure in the member states has been a serious problem. ehealth can be part of the answer to these problems as a way to improve access to healthcare for people living in remote or sparsely populated areas, improve working conditions, reduce waiting times and, above all, contribute to the provision of safe, effective and quality healthcare. we need to continue to work to make online health an increasingly secure mechanism, so that we can gain the trust of all stakeholders, so that we can benefit from its advantages.
in writing. − ehealth is a means of improving the quality and effectiveness of healthcare in the 21st century and a way of making its provision more universal. the potential market for online health is strong. the global market for telemedicine has thus grown from usd 9.8 billion in 2010 to usd 11.6 billion in 2011 and is expected to continue growing to usd 27.3 billion in 2016, corresponding to a compound annual growth rate of 18.6%, i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament defines in this report as essential in the development of these projects a special attention to the interests of the patient and, ultimately, a main objective: to improve the quality of health care for eu citizens, always bearing in mind the cultural differences between eu member states in the field of health care.
in writing. − the right to access quality healthcare is a recognised fundamental right. however, with the increased demand for these services as a consequence of the ageing population, the increase in chronic diseases, among others, european health systems are facing major challenges today. thus, ehealth is presented as a means to improve not only the quality but also the effectiveness of health care in the 21st century. the rapporteur stresses that this can be a way of improving access to such care for those living in remote areas and also to reduce waiting times, thus ensuring greater efficiency. however, to achieve these objectives, member states and healthcare providers need to work together in a genuine way and technical standardisation at eu level is therefore necessary. improving health care, always with the best interests of the patient in mind, is a priority for the eu, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report because i consider the issue of food fraud to be of the utmost importance, since it concerns a basic need for survival common to all human beings: to eat. the recent horse meat fraud scandal has only exposed a recurring and existing situation of food chain fraud. i am in favour of finding a solution that will strengthen consumer confidence and ensure food safety through strict control measures in the food chain by the european union. i support the creation of a food fraud network, a comprehensive european alert system that works efficiently in detecting fraud in the food chain, implementing appropriate penalties for offenders. this is a need, above all, to ensure public health, food safety and to restore consumer confidence in the internal market of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the food crisis, fraud in the food chain and its control, for including provisions providing for greater transparency in the information provided to consumers, in particular through the mandatory labelling of the origin of meat contained in processed food, such as frozen meals, and penalties to be applied to fraud in the food sector.
in writing. - europe has been hit by cases of fraud in the food chain more than once, and the horse meat case is perhaps both the most emblematic and the most recent. these crises have a negative impact on the european economy and put at risk farms that comply with the legislation in force and that have already suffered from unfair competition from fraudulent products. in addition to public health and food safety issues, the right of consumers to information on the food ingredients that are made available to them needs to be strongly respected. clear labelling plays a crucial role in this respect. it is therefore urgent to pay increased attention to this problem, to promote the adoption of better control practices and the exchange of information between member states and to give serious thought to the ways of properly tracing the origin and the path of food and its components. as in the case of horse meat, the scheme involved a number of countries and actors, and it was necessary to have a response, or at least a european focus on the problem, which was not confined to the national level and could contribute to a proper and firm response to transnational threats.
in writing. the report by mrs esther de lange deals with the food crisis, fraud in the food chain and its control. i believe that food safety and the interests of consumers must always be at the centre of our attention. in recent years, due to cases of fraudulent labelling of foodstuffs and other fraud in this sector, we must pay particular attention to this matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food policy is not distorted by the introduction of the euro. these cases affect consumer confidence. however, we know that food has never been so safe and that the likelihood of a european citizen dying from influenza is 260 times greater than the likelihood of dying from unsafe food.
in writing. - in recent years, several scandals in the food chain have come to light, ranging from the substitution of key ingredients for cheaper ones, to the mislabelling of animal species, to the presence of chemical contaminants, in the face of the failure of the entire existing regulatory and control framework. these are scandals which show the increasing weakening of basic principles of public health, consumer rights, food quality and safety. this report proposes the definition and scope of food fraud, identifies the factors contributing to its occurrence and possible solutions to strengthen eu surveillance systems. it proposes the development of an eu reference laboratory for food authenticity, among other measures. without questioning the goodness and relevance of some of the proposed measures, it is not enough to talk about regulation and control to safeguard the basic principles mentioned above. changes in production models and policies are needed. these situations are inseparable from the increasing deregulation and liberalization of agricultural and trade policies, the increasing complexity and extension of food chains, and the export-oriented, intensive production models that are destroying small and mediumsized farming and local production and consumption. all this is ignored in the report.
in writing. − food safety and consumer interests have always been at the heart of the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and of the european parliament in general. moreover, the issue of food fraud a separate, albeit related, issue has attracted increasing attention in recent years due to cases of fraudulent food labelling and other food fraud affecting the eu food chain. these cases have had a significant impact on the confidence of the general public. the eu must create mechanisms to detect this kind of fraud in order to regain the trust of the general consumer in the food chain. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − food safety and consumer interests have always been at the heart of the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and of the european parliament in general. the issue of fraud in the food sector a separate, yet related topic has attracted increasing attention in recent years, with cases of fraudulent food labelling and other fraud in the food sector affecting the eu food chain and threatening consumer health. for these reasons, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has decided to present an own-initiative report on the issue of fraud in the food sector and, more specifically, on its definition and scope, the factors contributing to its occurrence and possible solutions. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its concerns, particularly with regard to the proposal to double the penalties to avoid the economic advantage resulting from fraud in the food sector and, in the event of a repeat offence, the proposal to cancel the registers of operators of these food businesses.
in writing. − quality, food safety and consumer interests have always been at the heart of the european union's concerns. the recent food fraud scandals, particularly the horse meat case, show that control in the food chain continues to be flawed. another flagrant case is the incorrect labelling of non-organic products as organic. for the reasons stated above, the rapporteur of this own-initiative report is taking a number of initiatives: defining food fraud, strengthening the role of the eu's food and veterinary service in detecting fraud and calling for a review of the labelling rules for intermediary operators. at national level, it calls for stricter controls throughout the food chain, because public health is also at stake. in order to discourage fraud, penalties should also be increased in national legislation. i am in favour of this report which focuses on public health and food quality.
in writing. − in recent years, several scandals in the food chain have come to light, ranging from the substitution of key ingredients for cheaper ones, to the mislabelling of animal species, to the presence of chemical contaminants, in the face of the failure of the entire existing regulatory and control framework. these are scandals which show the increasing weakening of basic principles of public health, consumer rights, food quality and safety. this report proposes the definition and scope of food fraud, identifies the factors contributing to its occurrence and possible solutions to strengthen eu surveillance systems. it proposes the development of an eu reference laboratory for food authenticity, among other measures. these situations are inseparable from the increasing deregulation and liberalization of agricultural and trade policies, the increasing complexity and extension of food chains, and the export-oriented, intensive production models that are destroying small and mediumsized farming and local production and consumption. and none of this is mentioned.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that labour inspection is a fundamental part of ensuring that workers' working conditions are respected in the european union. i support the idea that the economic crisis cannot be used as an excuse to relax rules which jeopardise the protection of workers or the quality of working conditions. it is essential to make inspections more effective and more present through institutional and independent bodies with the capacity to intervene. i believe that there should be a harmonisation of workers' rights in the european union, with a view to improving working conditions throughout the union.
in writing. − labour inspections are of fundamental importance to protect workers' rights, ensure health and safety standards at work, prevent breaches of employment protection standards and ensure fair competition in the european union. the establishment of an electronic network between all the social services involved is supported, which will facilitate the exchange of data between the competent authorities when carrying out inspections. the committee also calls for the development of national action plans, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to strengthen labour inspection mechanisms and improve the continuing training of inspectors. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the fight against illegal work and poor health and safety conditions at work must be a priority for all responsible administrations, and inspections to ascertain the legality of the situation of workers and the compliance of their working conditions with legal requirements are an inalienable obligation and an important factor in regulating and assessing business activity and the degree of respect for workers' rights. however, they cannot and should not be used as a tool against the economy or to curb economic initiative and activity by imposing on firms excessive or unreasonable rules or obligations which discourage recruitment and investment. biblically, separating the wheat from the weeds does not mean merely burning the latter, but is intended, above all, to let the former grow and become stronger. it is therefore necessary to abandon the dickensian and eighteenth-century idea of what firms are and to support and encourage their work, while still subjecting them to inspections wherever this proves justified and appropriate.
in writing. - this report focuses on the need for labour inspections and their increased frequency, to protect workers' rights and improve working conditions. we agree with the rapporteur that, in view of the increase in atypical and precarious employment contracts, the increase in undeclared work and crossborder work, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are available to strengthen labour inspections. however, we must not forget that austerity measures are contributing to the deepening of the economic and social crisis in countries with weaker economies, by imposing a degradation of labour relations, accompanied by disregard for labour laws and workers' rights. this is largely ignored in the report. today, workers are forced to work in any conditions and the health and safety conditions at work have suffered from the civilizational regression to the level of rights at work. prevention, proper supervision, public investment, combating the precariousness of employment which is always associated with the occurrence of accidents and the absence of health and hygiene conditions at work, and the criminalisation of accidents at work are urgent steps. difficult to achieve with eu policies which increasingly devalue and degrade workers.
in writing. - the economic and social transformations of the last few decades have had a dramatic impact on the world of work. the globalisation of the world economy has had negative effects on traditionally safe and fair labour relations. subcontracting, outsourcing, precariousness, intensification and job insecurity have been undermining the quality of employment in europe. this gradual degradation of industrial relations has been accompanied by a disregard for labour laws and workers' rights. the eu has been confronted with the reality of undeclared work and the shadow economy. the inspection mechanisms need to safeguard the interests of workers, especially in this period of crisis that the eu is going through.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the steinruck report on labour inspection because i think it is important that workers' rights and labour standards (in particular safety and health) are effectively guaranteed throughout the union. the legal asymmetry between the various member states in this respect is sufficient. it is important that it is not aggravated by the lack of means of enforcing the domestic legislation of each member state. the situation of undeclared work and of false selfemployed persons is a particularly worrying case of evasion of the employers' labour obligations. the economic integration of the union must be accompanied by an equivalent level of social integration, otherwise regulatory competition will put pressure on countries with higher levels of labour protection to reduce them so as not to lose economic competitiveness vis-à-vis countries with lower labour standards. the greatest danger to the european social model, in its aspect of labour rights, is the toleration of social dumping, whether legal (due to a lack of rights) or de facto (due to a lack of means of effectively enforcing social rights). the enforcement of labour rights is therefore an official matter of the union's labour constitution.
in writing. - the economic and social transformations of the last few decades have had a dramatic impact on the world of work. the globalisation of the world economy has had negative effects on traditionally safe and fair labour relations. subcontracting, outsourcing, precariousness, intensification and job insecurity have been undermining the quality of employment in europe. this report, which i voted for, proposes that eu-level legislation be taken to regulate new forms of work and atypical work, to define clearly and bindingly the status of workers in the eu, in order to combat the most common practice of breaching labour law, namely false selfemployment. this measure will be an important tool for labour inspectors to determine whether companies are resorting to this illegal practice.
in writing. − over the last decade, the european union has been confronted with the gradual degradation of labour relations through realities such as undeclared work and the shadow economy. both have negative consequences for the economy, which are manifested in the poor quality of products and services, the lack of productivity of enterprises and the promotion of unfair competition in the single market through the loss of tax revenues. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. the report also calls for the establishment of a european agency responsible for cross-border matters in the field of labour inspection. the creation of a european social security card and an early-change system, which allows the exchange of information between authorities in the event of fraud or illegal exploitation, is also mentioned. i voted in favour of this report because i am a strong supporter of decent and fair working conditions.
in writing. - this report focuses on the importance and need for labour inspections and their increase, both to protect workers' rights and to improve working conditions. we agree with the rapporteur that, given the increase in atypical and precarious forms of employment contracts, the increase in undeclared work and crossborder work, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are available to strengthen labour inspections. however, we must not forget that it is the austerity measures that are contributing to the deepening of the economic and social crisis in countries with weaker economies, imposing a degradation of labour relations which has been accompanied by disregard for labour laws and workers' rights. today, workers are forced to work in any conditions and the health and safety conditions at work have suffered from the civilizational regression to the level of rights at work. prevention, proper supervision, public investment, combating job insecurity, which is associated with the occurrence of accidents and the absence of health and hygiene conditions at work, and the criminalisation of accidents at work are urgent steps. difficult to achieve with eu policies which increasingly devalue and degrade workers. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that it is necessary to plan and provide for a set of minimum operating requirements for the system of financial participation by employees in the profits of companies. it is necessary to ensure that employees who participate financially in the company's profits are properly informed about the underlying risks, both in terms of rights and duties. i believe that the system of financial participation by employees in the company's profits should ensure equal conditions of integration.
in writing. − employee financial participation allows employees to share in the success of the enterprise in which they have invested, thus contributing to improving their satisfaction and performance. indeed, greater employee responsibility for the management of the company contributes to its stability and growth. because of the risks and responsibilities associated with participation in this type of scheme, it is essential that clear information is provided to employers and workers to enable them to decide and evaluate the best options. i voted in favour of this report on workers' financial participation in the capital and profits of enterprises, taking into account their positive contribution to the fight against unemployment and economic growth.
in writing. − in view of the serious economic crisis the eu is going through, and in particular the difficulties that several european companies have been facing, i believe it is necessary to look at alternative forms of participation in companies. i therefore agree that financial participation by employees is an option to be considered by the member states, which can provide greater participation by employees in decision-making and strengthen good governance.
in writing. the report covers three main models of employee financial participation in enterprises (efp): profit participation (cash, deferred or equity); individual employee participation in capital (employee shares and stock options); and employee participation plans (esops). in any of these schemes, workers who opt for pft acquire the right to enjoy the benefits of the company's success, but also share in the responsibility and risks, particularly those 'linked to strategic decisions'. the report calls on member states to remove transnational obstacles to increasing the financial participation of employees in companies. it advocates a gradual convergence of existing ftt regimes and related national legislation. it advocates that employee participation schemes be made available to smes to meet their particular needs. in short, we are faced with a concept and proposals which are extremely controversial. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the pft is a firm in difficulty. the concepts explained here are, moreover, inseparable from a line of conditioning of wages and workers' rights, including the rights and role of their representative organizations, such as trade unions.
in writing. − financial participation by employees in the profits of companies can be a good mechanism to increase their incomes and, on the other hand, to increase workers' productivity levels. legislation is therefore needed at european level to remove transnational barriers to the implementation of ftts, such as double taxation. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth stresses the need for inclusive growth that, among other things, empowers citizens through employment, investing in professional skills, fighting poverty and modernising labour markets and social protection. this report addresses worker financial participation, an instrument that provides a tangible means of developing these issues through greater participation of workers in decision-making in the companies for which they work, helping to strengthen good governance and ensuring that they receive a share of the financial benefits of a successful business activity. this instrument can also strengthen smes by providing innovative financing mechanisms, as workers may wish to invest in shares of the company they work for, capitalizing on the expansion. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with this mechanism.
in writing. − employee financial participation (efp) is a way of helping to strengthen good governance in companies, as they participate in the decision-making process in the companies. this participation also develops the long-term view, as workers become more involved in the decision-making process and employers therefore feel more incentivised to invest in vocational training opportunities for their workforce. the rapporteur stresses that this participation can also strengthen smes, as workers have the possibility to invest in shares of the share capital of the company for which they work, making jobs safer. participation in ftts is currently relatively low and the fact that these benefits vary across sectors, company size, worker demographics and member states needs to be reinforced. the document also proposes that the european union develop a framework concept of general guidance on basic principles and best practice to help facilitate the acceptance of ftps in the member states.
in writing. - the so-called financial participation of employees has the fundamental objective of creating a false illusion among the employees that they have the power to make decisions on the company's strategies. in fact, the financial participation of workers in enterprises means, in many experiments, the conditioning of workers' wages and rights, including trade union rights. and it takes away the responsibility of those who have always profited from running the company - the bosses. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, as i believe that the current crisis is putting increased pressure on social protection systems in many member states. i believe that, given the current economic difficulties associated with the economic crisis in the european union, it is necessary to ensure that minimum standards of social protection are met for all eu citizens. in this regard, it is necessary to strengthen social protection, in particular for self-employed workers who in many member states are excluded from social protection schemes, placing them in an unequal situation in social terms and on the labour market. i believe that the social protection of selfemployed workers should be guaranteed in such a way as to allow, for example, access to unemployment funds, medical assistance, among other rights to which they are denied, in a clear devaluation of the status of selfemployed. by protecting the social rights of the selfemployed, entrepreneurship and self-employment are being promoted, which is desirable in a dynamic and potential eu market.
in writing. − the increase in expenditure linked to demographic change is threatening the social security systems of the member states. these systems are still facing increased social costs linked to high unemployment rates in several member states. in the face of these challenges, it is urgent to continue the modernisation of social security systems in the european union in order to ensure access to high quality health systems and the most efficient use of public resources. the reality of women in the labour market must be taken into account. women, more often than men, interrupt their careers to care for children, the elderly, dependents or sick family members. this may lead them to opt for parttime or lower-paid jobs, with a negative impact on their pensions. self-employment must be recognised and adequate social protection measures must be introduced. it is important to ensure that self-employment does not become a means of preventing workers from benefiting from social security, nor a way for employers to circumvent labour and social security legislation. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in recent years, several member states have had to initiate programmes or implement measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of their social security system or equivalent. however, there seems to be a disparity in the social protection afforded to workers in employment and to self-employed workers in certain member states. although social protection policy is the responsibility of each member state, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, there seems to be the necessary space for a responsible discussion to take place.
in writing. - the report by mrs vilija blinkevičiūtė focuses on social protection for all, including the self-employed. social protection is important and its main function is to promote social inclusion and social justice, protect wages and ensure quality education and healthcare services for all. social protection policy is the responsibility of each member state, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. however, at eu level, the open method of coordination has been adopted, which, in a voluntary process of political cooperation, allows common objectives and indicators to be defined. these objectives have their natural origin in the fundamental values of the european union. among other measures proposed in this report, i believe it is important to combine efforts to combat the fake selfemployed and to encourage the social partners to exchange good practice on services for the selfemployed.
in writing. - it is clear to us that selfemployed workers must have their rights assured and guaranteed - something which is not the case today. but there is an inescapable fact that must be emphasized here. in reality, many of these workers are not truly selfemployed. today, in several countries, notably in portugal, there is a significant proportion of false selfemployed, who follow a hierarchy, who have a fixed work schedule, who have a fixed salary, but who do not have an employment contract with the rights that are inherent in it. the vast majority of these workers have a permanent job but no effective link. we largely agree with this report. we are in favour of extending social protection to selfemployed workers and sanctions against employers who hire workers under the guise of selfemployment. however, we do not follow the references to the need to reform social security systems (we know what that means...), to raising the retirement age and to flexicurity.
in writing. - social protection is at the heart of the european social model. its main function is to promote social inclusion and social justice, protect wages and ensure quality education and health care services for all. social protection policy is the responsibility of each member state, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. however, at eu level, an open method of coordination has been adopted, a voluntary process of political cooperation based on the adoption of common objectives and indicators. one of the main objectives of social protection is to increase the equity and effectiveness of services, while promoting social inclusion and cohesion as key elements of inclusive and sustainable growth and poverty reduction. these objectives have their natural origin in the fundamental values of the european union. it is the maintenance of these principles that we must preserve, regardless of whether we go through a period of crisis which may lead to their being forgotten. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in 2012, self-employment accounted for more than 15% of total employment in the eu. this report, which i voted for, stipulates that the increase in selfemployment must be accompanied by adequate social protection measures for these workers. social protection is at the heart of the european social model. its main function is to promote social inclusion and social justice, protect wages and ensure quality education and health care services for all. this report also indicates the need to continuously optimise and modernise social protection systems at member state level in order to ensure sound, sustainable and adequate social protection for all, including the selfemployed.
in writing. − social protection and social security for all are at the heart of the european social model. the absence of a clear definition of selfemployment and of recognition at european level is detrimental to them in terms of social security. in europe, traditional social security systems were designed to ensure the protection of employees, which is why this regularization aims to ensure better protection for the middle class: the economically dependent self-employed worker. however, it should be borne in mind that this is a very heterogeneous group, since it includes both self-supporting persons or professionals in certain sectors who receive a considerable remuneration, as well as persons whose activity depends on a single client, among others. the rapporteur stresses that the lack of a link between national and european legal frameworks in the distinction between paid employment and the provision of services makes the concept of self-employment a problematic issue. everyone has the right to social protection, and that is why i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - it is clear that selfemployed workers must have their rights assured and guaranteed. but this should not hide one of the biggest problems of these workers - that in reality these workers are not self-employed. today, in several countries, notably in portugal, there is a significant proportion of false independents, who follow a hierarchy, who have a fixed work schedule, who have a fixed salary, but who do not have a contract with rights. the vast majority of these workers have a permanent job but no effective link. we largely agree with this report. we are in favour of extending social protection to selfemployed workers and sanctions against employers who hire workers under the guise of selfemployment. however, we do not follow the references to the need to reform social security systems, to raising the retirement age and to flexicurity. that way, we abstain.
in writing. - i support this report, as i consider it very important that the way in which the member states are preparing for the new period of implementation of cohesion policy is taken into account. i think it is important that the specificities of the different member states and regions have been taken into account, particularly in the context of the current economic crisis. it is common knowledge that member states and some of their regions are at different stages of the preparatory process for the implementation of the partnership agreements and operational programmes, however, it must be ensured that completion is achieved within the deadlines set by all. i think it is important that local and regional authorities are strongly involved in this process. i also believe that the regions should be given greater flexibility in setting priorities that meet their specific territorial needs.
in writing. − i think it is clear that the financing of cohesion policy has been important in the various eu member states and i think we all want the next legislative package for cohesion policy for 2014-2020 to come into force as soon as possible. it is therefore only right to want member states to conclude their partnership agreements and operational programmes quickly so that the programmes can be started as soon as possible in 2014.
in writing. - the report by mr derek vaughan focuses on the preparation of the member states for a timely and effective start to the new cohesion policy programming period. this report aims to understand the extent to which member states are prepared for the next phase of cohesion policy financing. cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important. i believe that the experience gained during the previous funding programme is of the utmost importance for the member states. i would like to highlight the efforts made by several member states and regions to carry out a rigorous analysis of the successes and failures of the 2007-2014 programme. it is now time to expand and improve existing ideas and develop new strategies to ensure the effective implementation of cohesion policy funding.
in writing. - the report rightly considers that it is by concentrating funding on strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion that the cohesion policy objective of reducing disparities between eu regions can be achieved. it also recognises that in recent years cohesion policy funding has provided thousands of euros in new job creation and support for innovative businesses, which, while it may be true, is not enough to hide the jobs that have been destroyed as a result of eu policies and guidelines - a prevailing dynamic vis-à-vis the former, as demonstrated by the reality in several countries. the report has obvious and not innocent gaps, the consequence of which may be the preferential accumulation of funds in certain regions, sectors and member states, leading to an unbalanced distribution of cohesion (parks) funds. the conditionality measures imposed on cohesion policy are a real barrier to funding for regions which, in need of development, may not meet the required criteria and be deprived of the necessary funding. the problem of unemployment, and in particular youth unemployment, is addressed in insufficient and deficient terms, practically limiting itself to the stale repetition of the language of submission to the eu 2020 strategy...
in writing. − member states must be prepared for the next phase of cohesion policy funding, and this report seeks to verify that this happens. the document refers to evidence collected in different member states and reveals the extent to which member states are prepared for the next programming period, as well as some of the methods used at national and regional level. there is an increased need to ensure that funds are applied more effectively so that citizens can fully benefit from european funding. to this end, it is vital that member states and regions take the necessary measures to prepare partnership agreements (pas) and operational programmes (ops) in a timely and efficient manner so that they are ready to implement the fund as quickly as possible. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − cohesion policies can make an invaluable contribution to areas that promote job creation, increased competitiveness and sustainable development, both in the member states and in the regions, especially in a particularly difficult time of economic crisis. the fact that this report contains common provisions for the five funds covered by the cfp (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eafrd, emff) i would like to stress the importance of the involvement of local and regional authorities as well as greater flexibility to allow regions to define their priorities in accordance with their needs, particularly with regard to the creation of partnership agreements in line with governance. in other words, multi-level partnership agreements for territorial development with a view to implementing the principle of subsidiarity. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this paper analyses the preparation of the member states for the new phase of cohesion policy financing. the document refers to evidence collected in different member states and reveals the extent to which they are prepared for the new programming period. in view of the entry into force of the new regulations for the period beginning this month and the timeliness of this document, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the report rightly considers that it is by concentrating funding on strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion that the objective of cohesion policy of reducing disparities between eu regions can be achieved. the report has obvious and not innocent gaps, the consequence of which may be the preferential accumulation of funds in certain regions, sectors and member states, leading to an unbalanced distribution of cohesion (parc) funds. the conditionality measures imposed on cohesion policy are a real barrier to funding for regions which, in need of development, may not meet the required criteria and be deprived of the necessary funding. the problem of unemployment, and in particular youth unemployment, is addressed in insufficient and deficient terms, practically limiting itself to the stale repetition of the language of submission to the eu2020 strategy.
in writing. - i approve this report, as i recognise the need for stronger european legislation on plastic waste in the environment. i believe that there is a need to strengthen and define the objectives in the management of plastic waste in the eu. in this context, i believe that priority should be given to the prevention, reduction, reuse, recycling and recovery of plastic waste. i recognise that the plastics industry is a valuable resource, representing in europe eur 300 billion a year and employing over 1.54 million people across the union. however, i believe that despite the importance of this industry, it is necessary to safeguard the protection of the environment and the harmful effects of the plastic waste industry on our health and environment. in this regard, it is essential to develop a european programme for the sustainable management of plastic waste, which promotes energy efficiency, reduces greenhouse gas emissions and conserves natural resources. i am in favour of setting up programmes at european and national level to promote greater environmental awareness in industry, but also in schools and among the general public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on plastic waste in the environment, because it includes measures to allow plastic waste to be treated as a valuable resource and to phase out the landfilling of recyclable or recoverable waste. i believe that proper management of plastic products and packaging will allow for greater resource efficiency, in particular greater energy efficiency, as well as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. - the use of single-use plastic bags should be reduced and, if possible, phased out, but i believe that there should be considerable adjustment periods. the most dangerous plastics and those containing heavy metals should be phased out or banned before 2020 in order to create a market for reused and recycled plastic materials. the introduction of the 75% recycled plastic target by 2020, binding recycling criteria and specific labelling can facilitate sorting and give new impetus to the development of more advanced and effective waste stream management systems.
in writing. the report by mr prodi deals with a european strategy for plastic waste in the environment. the plastics industry employs 1.54 million people in europe every year. however, data on their waste remains to be consolidated and without reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to devise an effective and targeted policy. clearly, the environmental impact of plastic continues to be underestimated. i believe that plastic is too valuable a resource to be dumped in landfills or simply incinerated. i believe that we must ensure the collective involvement of citizens, producers, public administrations and professional associations. in addition, we must increase public awareness through information campaigns, in particular by creating a european day against plastic waste.
in writing. − plastics are becoming more diverse and their use continues to increase, resulting in larger volumes of waste (an estimated 80 million tonnes of plastic waste floating in the atlantic and pacific oceans) that linger in the environment for centuries, killing marine life, causing toxic reactions and releasing various substances harmful to living things into ecosystems. there is no reliable and comparable data on production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal, and the environmental impact of this waste continues to be underestimated. the report advocates a european strategy for plastic waste in the environment, including specific measures in eu legislation on this matter, and making existing waste legislation more uniform, coherent and rigorously applied and enforced. it advocates restructuring the packaging and packaging waste directive, including eco-design rules that allow for the collection and sorting of waste for more effective recycling. it called for further efforts by industry to provide more transparent information, clearly defining the characteristics of the products it places on the market, in order to provide consumers with the information needed to facilitate screening processes, among other measures. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the plastics industry is one of the most important in the eu and generates a large volume of business. however, there are no reliable data on the quantity of waste and on the tonnes recycled. without reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to devise an effective and targeted policy, in particular as regards the fight against illegal waste flows. clearly, the environmental impact of plastic continues to be underestimated. plastic is a valuable waste and cannot be wasted and dumped in landfills, we have to do what is necessary to meet the targets of recycling 75 percent of the plastic produced by 2020. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the plastics industry generates an annual turnover of around eur 300 billion in europe and employs 1.54 million people. however, the data on its waste is not accurate, ranging from the 25 000 tonnes that the european commission says were produced in 2008 to the 13 000 tonnes that the eea says were produced in 2010. without reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to devise an effective and targeted policy, in particular as regards the fight against illegal waste flows. clearly, the environmental impact of plastic continues to be underestimated. the present green paper, which i voted for, offers a good opportunity to try to achieve a coherent and ambitious legislative harmonization. the first step that deserves my agreement should be the creation of specific eu legislation on plastic waste, setting targets and pushing for the strict application of existing rules.
in writing. − there is no single, consensus statistical data to tell us the amount of waste caused by the plastics industry, so that a realistic and objective strategy can be created, in particular to combat illegal waste flows. the latest figures show 25 million tonnes generated in 2008 and 13 million tonnes in 2010. the real impact of this sector is therefore not quantifiable in terms of the real consequences of the production, collection, types, recycling, recovery and distribution of plastics. progressive measures are therefore necessary to limit the production of plastics and to set clear criteria for their recycling and reuse. i am in favour of this more balanced environmental policy, which gives the member states room to adapt.
in writing. − the report advocates a european strategy for plastic waste in the environment, including specific measures in eu legislation on this matter, and making existing waste legislation more uniform, coherent and rigorously applied and enforced. it advocates restructuring the packaging and packaging waste directive, including eco-design rules that allow for the collection and sorting of waste for more effective recycling. it called for further efforts by industry to provide more transparent information, clearly defining the characteristics of the products it places on the market, in order to provide consumers with the information needed to facilitate screening processes, among other measures. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report because i consider it relevant and beneficial to develop a regional brand. i believe that it is by developing partnerships between public and private entities around the promotion of products native to a region that new opportunities are promoted in local, regional, national and international markets. i would also stress that the specification of regional trade marks contributes to the development of local economies by stimulating the market, promoting tourism, enhancing the value of regional products and contributing to the preservation of artisanal production methods.
in writing. − the regional quality mark can help to highlight and highlight products, goods and services of particular interest, quality and notoriety in a given territory and can make sense in economies and companies that increasingly diversify their offer without intending to give them a recognized and recognisable identity mark. i am only concerned that the excessive creation of brands/names/designated areas, etc., may dilute their importance and confuse rather than enlighten consumers. we must take care of this problem and ensure that it does not occur, otherwise we will flood the markets with ineffective quality indicators. i hope that this will not be the case with the regional quality label and that it will be able to take its revenge and establish itself as a benchmark and contribute to the development and prosperity of the respective regions.
in writing. - this report deals with the issue of the regional quality mark. the report follows the eu's idea of a food quality policy based on certification and labelling systems. we recognize this as a possible way of enhancing regional products and traditional local production processes. a contribution, but not a panacea, to the ills of the existing agricultural and rural development policies (in particular the cap). i agree with some of the ideas in the report, in particular that leader brings together a set of actions that can promote the multifunctionality of rural activity, which is important, for example, for local development associations and their work with communities. but we have serious doubts about the conditions for access to these regional labelling systems by small farmers and family farmers and peasants. in addition, the promotion of the marks of excellence on the basis of certification, which, in addition to being bureaucratic and expensive, creates the obligation to respond to specifications and production and response requirements that are almost impossible for small producers or service providers to meet, leads to products being more expensive and only accessible to an elite with higher purchasing power.
in writing. − the creation of a territorial trademark would not only ensure greater protection but also promote it in the context of a globalised economy. before considering the territorial quality mark, it is first necessary to define what is meant by territory. the importance of territorial governance in creating wealth and establishing systems of territorial production must be emphasised. the brand would have a wide scope in the sense that it would facilitate the mobilisation of the players, their organisation and the placing of products on the markets. the european union needs to have a european territorial quality label. more specifically, the mark would be a reference mark applicable to a set of goods and services originating in territories involved in a global development process. this would be an instrument to help the regions to dispose of their products in a more professional and organised way. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as it advocates the need to promote development models for all european rural areas, in an integrated perspective and organised by the various local stakeholders as stakeholders. only then, by joining forces and complementarity of programmes and funding, can we achieve territorial cohesion throughout europe. although some tools already exist which can be used for this purpose, the possibility of promoting agricultural products, fisheries, services, tourism, among other aspects, in a context of cooperation and innovation, with the organisation of networks between civil society, professional organisations, among others, will make it possible to maximise the benefits and ensure the reproducibility of european financial instruments for the development of rural areas. european regional quality labels are thus an added value, as they allow regional specificity to be maintained in the promotion of european quality.
in writing. − strengthening the regional brand, particularly in rural economies, mountain regions and the outermost regions, could have a multiplier effect on the development of these places. what this report outlines is that regional entities should have wider forms of participation, so that more territorial development projects can take place with the participation of local actors, in particular the local action groups on the leader programme. i consider these important elements and therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the report follows the eu's idea of a food quality policy based on certification and labelling systems. we recognize this as a possible way of enhancing regional products and traditional local production processes. a contribution, but not a panacea, to the ills of the existing agricultural and rural development policies (in particular the cap). i agree with some of the ideas in the report, in particular that leader brings together a set of actions that can promote the multifunctionality of rural activity, which is important, for example, for local development associations and their work with communities. but we have serious doubts about the conditions for access to these regional labelling systems by small farmers and family farmers and peasants.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteurs and all those who have collaborated with them on the excellent work which has resulted in an important legislative reform in the union. the need for a modern and up-to-date regulatory framework in the field of concession award and public procurement was therefore all too evident. in fact, these contractual instruments are important levers for the completion of the single market, thus contributing to the promotion of economic growth and job creation. the aim is to ensure that economic operators take full advantage of the freedoms introduced by the single market when participating in public procurement or in the award of concessions within the european union. these objectives are achieved by, first, simplifying the rules and adapting them to the ever-changing political, social and economic contexts; second, by facilitating the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to the public procurement market, which allows contracting authorities to widen their supplier base and these small and medium-sized enterprises to increase their turnover and thus promote the creation of new jobs; and third, by reducing the legal uncertainty surrounding the award of these concession contracts. these new provisions will enable authorities to make better use of these instruments in support of environmental, energy efficiency and climate change policies. the new legislation also makes a decisive contribution to transparency and, as a result, to combating favouritism, corruption and conflicts of interest.
madam president, commissioner barnier, the combination of the two directives on concession contracts (the juvin report) and on public procurement (the tarabella report) is a balanced instrument for advancing and modernising the single market, removes the previous legal uncertainty associated with in-house service, allows for the efficient use of public resources, preserves the advantages of high-quality services provided by public entities, imposes social, labour and environmental requirements on providers, dematerializes bureaucracy, and ensures that subcontracting is bound to the same obligations as the main contractor, preventing harmful or even fraudulent disclaimers. in general, the new directives promote healthy competition in public procurement and concessions. the selection criteria are based on the principle of choosing the most economically advantageous offer rather than the one with the lowest cost, which allows social, environmental and quality of service attributes to be introduced into the price-quality ratio. it is therefore excellent legislation.
madam president, i also want to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work, because i believe that the amendments tabled by the european parliament improve the commission's text and respond to the main concerns of the social partners. more transparency and clear rules avoid distortions in the internal market. for example, direct contract adjustment promotes fraud, national favoritism and corruption. concession contracts should therefore be public and transparent. the implementation of the directive must respect the promotion of quality employment, ensure adequate social protection and combat social dumping in the award of cross-border concessions. it is necessary to ensure that the main international social and environmental conventions are integrated into and respected in the concession award procedure.
madam president, for a long time now, there has been a convergence of very voracious appetites on public procurement, on the huge market for public contracts, appetites which are inseparable from the advance of the market in areas where the states traditionally exercise their social function through public services, and the arguments are repeated even though reality insists on refuting them. the need for clarity and transparency in public procurement is not at issue, but public procurement. it is good to remember that they are an important instrument for defending employment with rights, promoting and stimulating economic activity and preserving the environment, that is, everything that is threatened by the subjection to the rules of free competition in the single market which the european commission's proposals always sacralize and hence also proposals always tailored to large companies and not to small and mediumsized enterprises.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this balanced compromise which is being proposed to the house. access to external public markets is essential for european companies, especially in the current economic crisis. however, the public procurement market in the union is very open to foreign companies, but access by european companies to international public procurement markets is far from similar. the way to solve this asymmetry is not to close our market, as the radical left proposes, but to try to open external markets. the aim of this initiative is not to close the european market to foreign firms but to open external markets to european firms. it is not a measure restricting international trade but an incentive to open up international trade. the union's interest in protecting the objective of economic growth and job creation by european companies must not be sacrificed by any national interest in benefiting from cheaper offers from countries which do not offer the same opportunities to our companies, whether in china, brazil, india or russia. a very important point i would like to make in the caspari report, and which is common to the tarabella and juvan reports discussed this afternoon on public procurement legislation, is the mandatory compliance with labour rights and social and environmental standards both at national and union level, i.e. external economic operators must comply with the applicable environmental, social and labour obligations in the performance of public contracts, which will contribute to establishing fairer conditions in the union's public procurement market. in conclusion, the aim of this initiative is to ensure openness and reciprocity in international trade and it has our support for this.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the amendment to the honey directive now proposed was motivated by a court of justice decision in relation to a complaint from beekeepers whose honey was found to contain pollen from genetically modified plants. although pollen is not an ingredient in honey but a naturally occurring addition to it, there is a clarification that is intended to be introduced into the legislation, there is a decision that has to be taken at the outset. what can be done about the cause of this, namely the presence of gm pollen in honey? and here are two options: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he considers this a real problem and whether he thinks that it should be solved in the best possible way, or whether he considers it normal that honey can be marketed containing gm pollen in any quantity, without any measures being taken to prevent it and without the consumers even being aware of it. we are not ignoring the problem. the proposals we have made seek to solve this problem in the best possible way, without forgetting, however, that the problem can hardly be solved entirely in a framework such as we have today, in which the release and large-scale cultivation of genetically modified organisms in the wild is allowed. this being one of the many profound implications of the release of gmos into the wild, it cannot, of course, be resolved except in a wider framework of questioning the gmos themselves and their effects on health and the environment.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work. the industry is faced today with a number of constraints and difficulties, such as the problem of lack of funding and excessive regulation. first, it is essential to create the conditions for increased investment. the crucial instrument in this area is the eu budget, which places a high-impact political priority on reindustrialisation, i.e. science, innovation, education and support for smes. secondly, the competitiveness of european industry needs to be improved through smarter regulation, less red tape and structural reforms in growth-friendly member states. thirdly, a new innovation policy is needed to encourage faster development and commercialisation of goods and services. that is why horizon 2020 covers the entire innovation cycle, from fundamental research to the first steps of market entry. and one of its three pillars is entirely devoted to industrial competitiveness. finally, i would like to mention the importance of the internal market. we must deepen and complete the internal market, and in particular in three key areas: energy, services and the digital agenda. only a global response will unlock the potential of european industry and make it a driver of growth and job creation.
in writing. the eu needs a strategy to deal with the crisis, to boost new economic momentum and to solve the problems created - the industrial sector alone lost 3.8 million jobs. as part of a strategy to boost growth, it is necessary to invest in a new industrial policy, since it is a source of employment, but also of goods and services, as well as of tax revenue. the industry still accounts for 4/5 of europe's exports, but we need to give it a new impetus, since our international competitors (such as japan, china or the usa) have developed strong strategies in this area in recent years, which has enabled them to become more competitive. from a regional point of view, it is important to highlight the potential of industry to eliminate the development deficits of the most disadvantaged regions, by exploiting the potential of each to, for example, foster transnational and transregional european cooperation through clusters of enterprises and innovative academic and research bodies. the azores, for example, have very specific characteristics that promote research and innovation, renewable energy, biodiversity, agriculture, maritime wealth, etc., which should be the result of a strategy that leads to the production of tradable goods and the creation of value.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i wish the greek presidency every success and i want to express to your prime minister that our solidarity has always been and will always be with the greek people. i shall concentrate on one of the priorities listed by the presidency, namely the objective of completing another axis in the banking union process. there is one last thing missing, which is the only guarantee for the deposits. but the truth is that without banking union it will be impossible to defend the economic recovery and the revival of confidence in europe. right now, we need to end the single supervision of banks, because she's going to come in... the single supervisor will come into force this year and cannot end up in a resolution process for these same banks based on national structures and national funds. if that were to happen, the entire credibility of the banking union system would be called into question. and as rapporteur, with the comfort of the support of 80% of the members of the committee responsible for the matter, i confirm what the political leaders have already said here. parliament wants an agreement with the council, but not just any agreement. and the council's proposal, as it stands at the moment, is totally unacceptable. it does not allow a bank to be wound up in an emergency, and that completely destroys its credibility. it does not guarantee that a bank in the netherlands, italy, greece or germany or luxembourg with similar problems will be resolved in the same way, despite being subject to the same supervisory rules and operating rules. this is not acceptable, and i am only giving two or three examples. the council has taken the intergovernmental route. this intergovernmental route is not working. and, mr samaras, please get a serious negotiating mandate from parliament, or we will have lost in the greek presidency a historic opportunity to patch up one of the missing pieces in the construction of european union.
madam president, mr prime minister, i would first of all like to congratulate you on the programme presented by the greek presidency and in particular on your speech here today, which is a source of hope for all europeans. i am one of those who believe that it is fortunate for the european union at this moment to have the greek presidency, because it allows this presidency to be exercised with a deep knowledge of europe's strengths and weaknesses. that said, i was going to make two appeals. the first is an appeal as a member of the epp and as an enthusiast of the european project, but coming from a country which is in a process similar to the greek process, which is portugal, and which is that the council, the greek presidency, should exert all the influence in the council so that we achieve a banking union as it should be done, a real banking union and not an approximation to banking union which is only an intergovernmental approximation. we need the community method and we need this fundamental pillar to boost our economies and to make all the sacrifices that europeans have made, and in particular the people of the countries under adjustment have made, worthwhile. and secondly, i would like to make an appeal to you as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs on the european elections. it is very important that the council and the greek presidency, with their influence, respect the true spirit of the lisbon treaty and that we can take account in the electoral process, when we have to choose the european institutions and in particular the european commission, of the will of the electorate and the will of parliament, of the democratic choices made by the europeans. it is very important that the council respects the spirit of the lisbon treaty and is prepared for the great task of inaugurating a european democracy.
in writing. the programme of activities of the greek presidency, as was clearly shown in the various speeches of the commission, the council and the main political groups , will necessarily be determined by the continuation by the european union of what has been defined as the essential lines of response to its crisis. the lines of response were reaffirmed at the last european council. there is a great deal of silence about the very serious social scourges, such as the almost 30 million unemployed in the eu, the dramatic levels of youth unemployment or the 125 million people who are thrown into poverty or at risk of poverty, of which greece is, ironically, the most dramatic and the most important example. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. blindly and obstinately, it insists on one single path: that of continuing social regression and the expropriation of the sovereignty of the peoples. nothing is solved, everything is worse. if it's up to these gentlemen, that's all you can expect this semester. but they must also count on the extension and deepening of the resistance and struggle of the peoples. the next elections to the european parliament will be an important moment. a struggle which remains the most solid reason for hope and confidence in a better future.
in writing. − i support this report, being in favour of a review of the competences of the parliamentary committees of the european parliament, as a way of preparing for the 2014 european elections, the main objective being to clarify the competences of the parliamentary committees, so as to remove the recurrent and subsequent conflicts of competences between parliamentary committees. i believe that a clear definition of the responsibilities of parliamentary committees in the light of the lisbon treaty will reduce internal conflicts between parliamentary committees and improve the european parliament's role as legislator.
in writing. - the conference of presidents has decided to review the powers of the parliamentary standing committees, in order to ensure, i believe, that they reflect more adequately not only the scope of their work but also their functional needs and, above all, the specific concerns of voters. i hope that the powers as they are being rewritten will help to make that happen. i would not, however, wish the committees' powers to be captured by polemical ideologies and thus to lose the necessary impartiality to which they should be subject, as seems to be the case with the committee on women's rights which expressly embraces gender ideology in its powers.
in writing. - in order to update the powers and responsibilities of parliamentary committees for the next parliamentary term, i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the powers of the standing committees.
in writing. - i voted against the amendment to annex vii to parliament's rules of procedure in the part concerning the committee on international trade (of which i am a member and chairman), since it removes from this committee the competence to monitor and deliberate on international trade agreements when they are part of mixed international agreements, i.e. they include other matters, for example matters of political cooperation. it happens that a large number of trade agreements in the union are in this situation, so that parliament's specialised committee will be deprived of its competence in relation to all international agreements which are not exclusively trade, even when such mixed agreements are essentially trade agreements (as was the case, for example, with the failed agreement with ukraine). although this decision only applies to the next legislature, i cannot leave my successor at the head of this important parliamentary committee a poisoned legacy. i therefore want to put on record my firm opposition to this unbalanced and unwise decision. each parliamentary committee should deal only with matters falling within its specific expertise, and no committee should be expropriated of the competence that naturally belongs to it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament decision on the powers of the standing committees of parliament. i would like to emphasise that this decision formalises the following competences of the committee on fisheries in the framework of the integrated maritime policy as regards fishing activities and sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, regional fisheries organisations and the implementation of international obligations in the field of fisheries.
in writing. - the changes in the powers of the parliamentary standing committees are largely due to changes in the treaties themselves, notably the treaty of lisbon, and to the eu's deepening of its federalist, as well as neoliberal and militarist, direction. many of the new powers are being taken away from the institutions of national sovereignty, in particular national parliaments. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the region, and the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the region. the opening, monitoring and conclusion and follow-up of trade agreements governing economic and trade relations between countries, matters which, once again, should remain within the competence of the institutions of national sovereignty, taking into account the specific situation of each country, the stage of development of its economy, the interests and aspirations of its peoples. we abstained.
in writing. − the european parliament's calendar for 2015 includes again the holding of so-called mini-plenary sessions in brussels, which seems to us to improve some aspects of its functioning. the fact that more plenary sessions will be held will make it possible to spread the range of reports, resolutions and topics for debate over more days, which could allow for greater democratic participation by members in their preparation and intervention, particularly by smaller political groups. the agenda and the vote are avoided by the horse-drawn carriage, with reports and resolutions often being put to the vote without any possibility of debate. on the other hand, with the increase in the powers of the european parliament, it is imperative to provide more debate time and less tight deadlines for the legislative process and political initiative. while mini-sessions don't solve the problem, they mitigate it. the other matters remain unchanged, with the 12 plenary sessions held each year in strasbourg.
in writing. − the european parliament's calendar for 2015 includes again the holding of so-called mini-plenary sessions in brussels, which seems to us to improve some aspects of its functioning. the reason is that more plenary sessions will make it possible to spread the range of reports, resolutions and topics for debate over more days, which could allow for greater democratic participation by members in their preparation and intervention, particularly by smaller political groups. the agenda and the vote are avoided by the horse-drawn carriage, with reports and resolutions often being put to the vote without any possibility of debate.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the current specific programme on the prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks was established for the period 2007-2013 and aims to prevent, prepare and protect people and critical infrastructure against terrorist attacks and other security-related incidents. the adoption of this report is necessary because in the new multiannual financial framework this programme is replaced by the internal security funds and a separate legal basis is needed to approve the new funds related to security aspects at the level of the european union.
in writing. − in the multiannual framework for the period 2014-2020, an instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime and crisis management was established under the internal security fund. it aims to provide financial support for police cooperation, exchange and access to information, the prevention of and fight against cross-border and serious and organised crime, including terrorism, the protection of persons and critical infrastructure against security-related incidents and the effective management of security-related risks and crises. the specific programmes under the previous multiannual framework should therefore be repealed. however, in the case of the programme on prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks, cips, taking into account the different voting rules provided for in its dual legal basis, it is necessary to adopt a separate legal act. i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal to repeal the 2007 council decision establishing this specific programme in order to comply with this special legislative procedure and allowing this repeal to take effect from 1 january 2014.
in writing. − considering that the programme on the prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks, which was in force for the period 2007 to 2013, will be replaced by another one, its repeal is not controversial and the simplified procedure used for its procedural processing in parliament is therefore justified. i hope that the new programme will deal with the underlying issues, which are becoming increasingly important in a globalised society with particularly exposed borders such as the one we live in, with quality, rigour and vigilance.
in writing. − the general programme on security and protection of freedoms was established under the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and its main objective was to ensure effective operational cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and crime in general, as well as to support the communication of information at european level in order to promote safe societies based on the rule of law (sic). the transition to the new financial framework 2014-2020 is made by repealing the decision creating this programme in 2007-2013, replacing it for the period 2014-2020 by the internal security fund, isf-police. this fund is intended to be an instrument of financial support for police cooperation, the prevention of and fight against cross-border crime and crisis management, the exchange and access to information, serious and organised crime, including terrorism, the protection of persons and critical infrastructure against security-related incidents and the effective management of security-related risks and crises. we have serious reservations both about the current programme - its nature, objectives and implications - which is now being scrapped, and about its counterpart for the period 2014-2020. as this report deals only with the repeal of the first, we voted in favour.
in writing. − under the general programme security and protection of freedoms, the european union is establishing a specific programme for the period 2007-2013 to support projects on the prevention, preparedness and management of the consequences of terrorist attacks and other security-related risks. the objective of this programme is to support member states' efforts to prevent terrorist attacks, build response capabilities and protect citizens and critical infrastructure. it should contribute to ensuring protection against terrorism and other security-related risks. the programme will be replaced during the period 2014-2020 by the internal security fund, which requires the adoption of a separate legal act, which is why i voted in favour of repealing council decision 2007/124/ec euratom (a7-0432/2013).
in writing. − the current specific programme on prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks (cips specific programme) was established for the period 2007-2013 and aims to prevent terrorist attacks and other security-related incidents, prepare people and critical infrastructure for such eventualities and protect them if they occur. the programme will be replaced, during the period 2014-2020, by the internal security fund (isf-police). since the cips specific programme was adopted under a dual legal basis (ec/euratom), its repeal requires the adoption of a separate legal act, which i voted in favour of on this date.
in writing. − the programme in question, prevention, preparedness and consequence management in relation to terrorism and other security-related risks, was designed to run from 2007 to 2013. i am voting in favour of the draft decision because i think it is important to have a more active stance on preventing terrorist attacks and other security incidents and to prepare people and infrastructure for the situations that arise.
in writing. − the general programme on security and protection of freedoms was established under the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and its main objective was to ensure operational cooperation in the fight against terrorism, covering the consequences of this phenomenon, organised crime and crime in general, as well as to support the communication of information at european level and to strengthen the prevention of crime and terrorism in order to promote safe societies based on the rule of law. the transition to the new financial framework 2014-2020 is made by repealing the decision creating this programme in 2007-2013, replacing it for the period 2014-2020 by the internal security fund, isf-police. in today's increasingly militaristic, aggressive and security-oriented eu, the contradiction is clear: instead of attacking the root causes of terrorism, which are deteriorating the world situation and exacerbating the militarization of international relations, they prefer to create instruments and funds which do no more than finance and increase the spiral of violence and aggression against the sovereignty of states and peoples.
in writing. - i welcome this report, as i consider that science and technology is one of the most dynamic areas of cooperation between the european union and russia, based on their common interests in promoting innovation and economic competitiveness. intensive collaboration in research and technology, including a strong track record of joint projects and other cooperative activities, is a vital element of the strategic partnership between the european union and russia and contributes to the objectives of the partnership for modernisation. the proposed decision to renew the agreement in its current form for a further five years will enable the european union and russia to strengthen their bilateral relations in the field of science and technology. in addition, this agreement is also significant in the context of the ongoing negotiations on a visa facilitation agreement between the european union and russia.
in writing. - i fully agree that science and technology is one of the most dynamic areas of cooperation between the european union and russia, based on their common interests in promoting innovation and economic competitiveness. intensive collaboration in research and technology, including a strong track record of joint projects and other cooperation activities, is a vital element of the eu-russia strategic partnership and contributes to the objectives of the partnership for modernisation. i am therefore in favour of renewing the agreement in its current form for a further five years, which will allow the eu and russia to strengthen their bilateral relations in the field of science and technology.
in writing. - this agreement, signed in 2000, is based on the will of russia and the eu to cooperate in research and technology. building on a strong track record of joint projects and other cooperation activities, and contributing to the objectives of the partnership for modernisation. the agreement was renewed for 5 years in 2009 and this report approves the renewal of the agreement for another half-decade in order to strengthen bilateral relations in this field. cooperation activities shall be conducted on the basis of mutual benefit, involving the timely exchange of information that may influence cooperation activities. this cooperation may be developed in the framework of research, technological development and demonstration activities, including environmental and climate research, covering earth observation, research in the field of biomedicine and health, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, industrial and production technologies, materials and metrology research, non-nuclear energy, transport, information society technologies, social science research, science and technology policy, training and mobility of scientists. the positive track record of this cooperation produces tangible and mutually beneficial results. we voted in favour.
in writing. − this agreement has been fruitful for both parties. it therefore makes perfect sense to renew it, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. − science and technology are the most dynamic areas of cooperation between the european union and russia, based on their common interests in promoting innovation and economic competitiveness. the legal framework for cooperation is set out in the eu-russia agreement on science and technology, concluded in 2000 and renewed for five years by decision 2009/313/ec of 30 march 2009. i voted in favour of this decision which proposes a second renewal of the agreement in its current form for a further five years, which will allow the eu and russia to strengthen their bilateral relations in the field of science and technology.
in writing. − technological innovation and science are two fundamental pillars of strategic cooperation between the european union and russia, owing to the common interests that exist in promoting innovation and economic competitiveness. there is currently a council decision of 16 november 2000 establishing the conclusion of an agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the russian federation. i believe that this agreement is a positive one and that it will be necessary to deepen cooperation between the two world powers in research and technology, including new joint projects and other activities.
in writing. − this agreement, signed in 2000, is based on the expressed willingness of russia and the eu to carry out intensive collaboration in research and technology, including a track record of joint projects and other cooperation activities, contributing to the objectives of the partnership for modernization. it was renewed for 5 years in 2009 and this report approves the renewal of the agreement for another half-decade to strengthen bilateral relations in this field. cooperation activities are intended to be carried out - at least in theory - on the basis of mutual benefit, timely exchange of information that can influence cooperation activities, balanced realization of economic and social benefits by the eu and the russian federation. this cooperation may be developed in the framework of research, technological development and demonstration activities, including environmental and climate research, covering earth observation, research in the field of biomedicine and health, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, industrial and production technologies, materials and metrology research, non-nuclear energy, transport, information society technologies, social science research, science and technology policy, training and mobility of scientists. the positive track record of this cooperation has produced tangible and mutually beneficial results. i'm not objecting.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the proposal in question does not contain any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal. i would also point out that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous act, together with the amendments introduced, the proposal is limited to the pure and simple codification of the existing act, without any substantive changes. i have therefore no objection to the adoption of this legislative act.
in writing. − the commission considers it appropriate to define and update the procedures for codifying council regulation (ec) no 975/98 of 3 may 1998 on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation whenever changes are made to them in a significant number. the amendment to the framework of article 1 of regulation (ec) no 975/98 consists in replacing all existing values for the thickness of coins. the european parliament generally supported the commission's proposal as regards its position on the proposed amendment of the regulation in question. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the need for a coinage system to help combat counterfeiting and the need to inform parliament of changes to national designs of current coins are among the most important. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i agree with the conclusions of my colleague and rapporteur, jean-paul gauzès, that the single european coinage system should be reliable, effective and help to combat counterfeiting. it is never too late to forget the importance that the euro currency has been playing, not only as a symbol of monetary union but also as a way of overcoming borders and helping to create a genuine internal market.
in writing. − the commission considers it appropriate to define and update the procedures for codifying council regulation (ec) no 975/98 of 3 may 1998 on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation whenever changes are made to them in a significant number. the amendment to the framework of article 1 of regulation (ec) no 975/98 consists in replacing all existing values for the thickness of coins. i think it is useful and appropriate, however, to add a few points for improvement. the need for a coinage system to help combat counterfeiting and the need to inform parliament of changes to national designs of current coins are among the most important. i think parliament's text is appropriate and therefore i vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation (recast) has some positive aspects. consumers' associations, the european union of the blind and representatives of the vending machine industry were consulted to take account of the specific requirements of important categories of coin users. these contacts ensured that coins could be easily distinguished by visual and tactile features. without prejudice to some aspects which, in our opinion, could have been dealt with differently, this is an eminently technical matter. the fundamental problem of the euro is another one, it is not about the technical specifications of the currencies but about the underlying political issues, which are obviously not dealt with here. we abstained.
in writing. − the single union coinage system should inspire public confidence and entail technological innovations that make it safe, reliable and effective. we must be concerned about counterfeiting and therefore use techniques which make it impossible. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the commission considers it appropriate to define and update the procedures for codifying the regulation on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation whenever changes are made to them in a significant number. the amendment to the framework of article 1 of regulation (ec) no 975/98 consists in replacing all existing values for the thickness of coins. the european parliament generally supported the commission's proposal to amend the regulation in question. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i thought it useful and appropriate to add some points of improvement to the text, of which i would stress the need for a coinage system which contributes to the fight against counterfeiting and the need to inform parliament of changes to the national designs of current coins.
in writing. − european currencies should ensure a high level of public confidence among citizens and businesses, and successive technological innovations should be introduced to make them safe, reliable and effective. i am in favour of this report because i believe that the conditions for the minting of european coins will have to be improved in order to reduce drastically the existing counterfeiting which attests to the credibility of the european institutions.
in writing. - there are positive adaptations to this proposal. consumers' associations, the european union of the blind and representatives of the vending machine industry were consulted to take account of the specific requirements of important categories of coin users. these contacts ensured that coins could be easily distinguished by visual and tactile features. but there are also negative aspects. the establishment of uniform conditions for the approval of the designs of the national sides of euro coins, supposedly in order to avoid the choice of designs that might be considered inappropriate in some member states, is a practice that nullifies the little (or nothing) that remains of national sovereignty of decision regarding the euro. the designs of the coins are also subject to eu harmonisation.
in writing. - i welcome this report, believing that relations between the european union and asean should be strengthened and supporting efforts to achieve greater political and economic integration between its member states. the european union wants to play a global role and for that reason it must not neglect this part of the world. the european union and asean share the political objective of promoting prosperity, cooperation and peace in their respective regions and can greatly benefit from closer cooperation.
in writing. - asean is one of the most dynamic economic and trade blocs of our time. moreover, as a global actor, asean can and should play a leading role in peace and stability in the countries neighbouring that region of the world, a capacity already proven through the integration of the countries in the region. after economic cooperation, the eu and asean can develop partnerships that not only encourage economic growth in both blocs but should move towards the development of a strategic partnership.
in writing. - as the report recognises, asean is one of the most important emerging regional organisations in the world. it is therefore not surprising that the eu is focusing on the south-east asian region and has started negotiations with malaysia, thailand and vietnam for a free trade agreement (fta) and is in the process of concluding a similar agreement with singapore. this perspective is evident not only from the agreements under negotiation or in the process of being concluded, but also from the explicit support for regional economic integration based on the free movement of goods, services and investments, which would facilitate the ultimate goal of establishing a fta between the two regions. for the majority of this parliament, what matters is the possibility of opening markets and dominating countries, satisfying the voracity and imperial drive of its monopolies. the textile sector is a case in point. the relocation of monopolies in this sector from eu countries to countries in the region has been allowed, with the aim of reducing labour costs, and now the suppression of import costs through the lac, the free establishment of companies, is being advocated, which will lead to pressure for an even greater compression of wages and labour rights of workers in both regions. we voted against it.
in writing. − the association of south east asian nations (asean) is one of the most important emerging regional organisations in the world, both in terms of economic development and geopolitical dynamics. however, it has been pushed to the back burner in favour of china, japan and india. the report aims to give a new dimension to the relationship between these two regions so that in the future they can find common ground leading to a mutually beneficial relationship. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the report aims to draw due attention to eu-asean relations, the european union and south-west asia, which have often been relegated to the background in favour of eu relations with china, japan and india. this situation prevails despite the fact that asean's purchasing power and the size of its economy are already comparable to those of china, and asean's political importance is therefore increasing. the european parliament presents an analysis and suggestions for future eu-asean relations in a global context, in particular with china, japan and the united states, and examines the possibilities of improving the eu's contribution to the asean integration process. i have no objections and in view of the potential benefits for the european union, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the association of south east asian nations (asean) is one of the most important emerging regional organisations in the world, both in terms of economic development and geopolitical dynamics. i believe that it will be appropriate to deepen economic and political relations between the european union and the seven countries that make up asean, because this group of nations represents a great economic potential for national companies. however, i cannot fail to stress the importance of ensuring the best working conditions at local level and respecting the rights of the peoples of south-east asia.
in writing. - asean is one of the most important emerging regional organisations in the world. it is therefore not surprising that the eu is targeting the south-east asian region and has started negotiations with malaysia, thailand and vietnam for a so-called free trade agreement (fta), and is in the process of concluding a similar agreement with singapore, with the ultimate aim of establishing a fta between the two regions. this perspective is evident not only from the agreements under negotiation or in the process of being concluded but also from the explicit support for regional economic integration based on the free movement of goods, services and investments with the ultimate aim of establishing a free trade area between the two regions. what matters to the majority of the ep is to open up markets and dominate countries for the greed of big business. the textile industry is a case in point. the monopoly in this sector has been allowed to be relocated from eu countries to countries in the region, always with the aim of reducing labour costs (there and here), and now the suppression of import costs through the lac, the free establishment of companies, is being advocated, which will lead to pressure for an even greater compression of wages and labour rights of workers in both regions.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the tachograph is used in road transport to check compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods, in order to promote road safety, decent working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport companies, the aim of this legal act being to make fraud more difficult, improve the application of social legislation and reduce administrative burdens by making full use of new technologies and introducing some new regulatory provisions. i am also in favour of the introduction of the smart tachograph because i believe that it will improve the enforcement of the legislation and will reduce the administrative burden associated with the tachograph obligations for law-abiding transport companies in the medium and long term. during the negotiations, the need to ensure that the smart tachograph is efficient but affordable was made explicit.
in writing. − the tachograph is used in road transport to check compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods, in order to promote road safety, working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport companies. the regulation proposed here will replace the one in force since 1985 and will make it safer. this safety will protect and benefit long-haul drivers, and for that, i wholeheartedly agree.
in writing. − we value the function of the tachograph as a tool to support compliance with labour law in each member state, in particular with regard to the protection of workers and their health, with regard to maximum driving time and minimum rest periods, and to promoting road safety. the aim of the proposed regulation is to make fraud more difficult, to improve the enforcement of social legislation and to reduce administrative burdens through the use of new technologies smart tachographs connected to satellites and the introduction of some new regulatory provisions. although we voted against the efd group's rejection proposal, we are concerned about some aspects of the proposal adopted at second reading which, in our view, should be dealt with with with due care: ensuring the protection of the driver's privacy; excluding the use of this instrument to impose penalties on the worker by the employer; the training (foreseen for control officers) must be extensive to workers and enterprises; the application and operation of this instrument must not entail any cost for the worker (e.g. cards, even if personal and non-transferable); the commission has also proposed that the 50 km limit be maintained in respect of national exemptions; the exemptions should be reduced by reducing the tonnage and the number of passengers.
in writing. − the tachograph is used in road transport to check compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods, in order to promote road safety, decent working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport companies. with this regulation, which will replace the regulation in force since 1985, we aim to make fraud more difficult, to improve the application of social legislation and to reduce the administrative burden by making full use of new technologies and introducing some new regulatory provisions. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the tachograph is used in road transport to check compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods, in order to promote road safety, decent working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport companies. the aim of the proposed regulation, which will replace the regulation in force since 1985, is to make fraud more difficult, improve the application of social legislation and reduce administrative burdens by making full use of new technologies and introducing some new regulatory provisions. since the tachograph is only used in the context of wage-earning work, i do not consider that the right to privacy is being diminished, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european commission proposed this regulation in 2011 with the aim of adapting the tachograph system to new technologies, in particular the smart tachograph, in order to make fraud more difficult, to reduce the administrative burden on carriers and to strengthen social provisions. with this tachograph, it is possible to communicate at a distance for control purposes and to collect data. under this regulation, companies have 15 years to adapt their vehicles and 3 years to bring them to market. this obligation does not apply to trucks of less than 7,5 tonnes used for the transport of materials, equipment and machinery within a 100 km radius of the place of departure, provided that this is not the driver's main activity. i am in favour of greater harmonization of road arrangements in order to improve road conditions.
in writing. − we value the function of the tachograph as a tool to support compliance with labour law in each member state, in particular with regard to the protection of workers and their health, maximum driving time and minimum rest periods, and the promotion of road safety. although we voted against the rejection proposal of the efd group, we have some concerns about the proposal adopted at second reading which, in our view, should be dealt with with with due care: - to ensure the protection of the driver's privacy; - to exclude the use of this instrument to impose penalties on the worker by the employer; - training (for inspectors) should be extensive for workers and firms; - the implementation and operation of this instrument must not entail any cost for the worker (e.g. cards, even if they are personal and non-transferable); - reduction of the exemptions by lowering the tonnage and reducing the number of passengers.
in writing. - i approve this report, convinced of the need for a european legislative initiative on concessions. the lack of legal certainty, the persistence of direct contracts awarded without regard to the broad principles underlying the internal market of the european union and the legal patchwork at member state level in this area make it necessary to establish a legislative framework at european level. however, this framework should take a light approach to setting clear, coherent, understandable and effective rules. public procurement represents a very important part of economic activity in the union. public procurement and concessions are the most frequent forms of public procurement. public procurement is subject to clear rules. on the contrary, concessions are simply governed by the general principles of the treaty and by a wealth of case law. in my view, a legislative initiative in the field of concessions offers the advantage of clarifying the existing legislative framework in the face of the multiplication of the case law of the court of justice of the european union and strengthens legal stability and security in the face of the legal mosaic that exists in the eu due to the lack of uniform application of the principles of the treaty.
in writing. − public procurement represents millions of euros annually and its importance is obvious and, consequently, the need for appropriate framework legislation is also obvious. although there is a long tradition of community legislation on these contracts, works concessions lack a legislative framework of their own. the commission is also proposing to amend the directive on the protection of the environment by introducing a new directive on the protection of the environment, which will be based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women, and on the principle of equal treatment of workers and employers.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive has two main objectives: to cover the award of public service concession contracts and to harmonise the rules on concession contracts at eu level. in the name of transparency, non-discrimination and equal treatment, national markets are opened up to non-national firms, placing countries with substantially different levels of economic development on the same competitive footing. this will favour the firms and economic groups of the economically more powerful countries, to the detriment of the interests of the financially weaker countries, such as portugal, with greater problems of growth and employment, thus inevitably increasing inequalities within the eu even further. the market, the matrix of capitalist integration, is advancing in ever-increasing spheres of social life and creating the conditions for the monopolistic concentration that is already taking place in various areas. obviously, we vote against it.
in writing. − public procurement represents a very important part of economic activity in the union. public procurement and concessions are the most frequent forms of public procurement. public procurement is subject to clear rules. on the contrary, works concessions are only subject to the basic provisions of the existing public procurement directives (2004/17/ec and 2004/18/ec), and service concessions are simply governed by the general principles of the treaty and by a wealth of case law. a legislative initiative in the field of concessions offers the advantage of clarifying the existing legislative framework in the face of the multiplication of the case law of the cjeu and strengthens legal stability and security in the face of the legal patchwork that exists in the eu due to the lack of uniform application of the principles of the treaty. clear rules on service and works concessions also provide public authorities with additional tools to develop and modernise public services, and encourage competition within the eu. finally, greater transparency in procedures would make it possible to combat favouritism in the award of public contracts more effectively. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the juvin report on the public works and services concession directive because it fills an important gap in the union's legal order. the fragmentation of national regimes in an area which is central to competition in the internal market on a level playing field could not be maintained. the directive obviously safeguards in-house concessions and public-public partnerships where there is no real outsourcing of public management. it is clear that the directive does not oblige any public authority to grant any public works or public service, which is a sovereign matter. the award of a concession is always optional, but if the competent authority decides to award a public works or service, it must comply with common rules throughout the union. i therefore see no reason for excluding public water concession contracts, and no reason for keeping them exempt from the new union regime. an important feature of the new scheme is the obligation to respect labour rights and environmental obligations in force in the union and the member state concerned, which is especially relevant for competitors from outside the union (but not only).
in writing. − public procurement represents a very important part of economic activity in the union. public procurement and concessions are the most frequent forms of public procurement. public procurement is subject to clear rules. on the contrary, works concessions are only subject to the basic provisions of the existing public procurement directives (2004/17/ec and 2004/18/ec), and service concessions are simply governed by the general principles of the treaty and by a wealth of case law. this report makes several arguments in favour of the need to create a legislative initiative in the field of concessions. on the basis of the arguments put forward, namely the advantage of clarifying the existing legislative framework in the face of the multiplication of the case law of the court of justice of the european union, the strengthening of legal stability and security in the face of the legal mosaic that exists in the eu due to the lack of uniform application of the principles of the treaty, the need for clear rules on service and works concessions that would also allow public authorities to have additional instruments to develop and modernise public services and promote competition within the eu, these are, among others, the reasons why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i abstained on this new proposal for a directive on the award of concession contracts, which is part of the public procurement package. i believe that the portuguese port sector will be disadvantaged compared with its european counterparts, which use other legal forms for the award of terminal operations, in particular lease contracts, and are therefore not covered by this directive. port activities should have been excluded from the scope of this directive, in order to be all under the same legal regime, preventing the differentiation of schemes in the operation of terminals in ports. i understand that there have been improvements in certain areas, by creating more transparency, more openness and equal treatment for economic operators throughout the union, so i shall abstain.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive has two main objectives: to cover the award of public service concession contracts and to harmonise the rules on concession contracts at eu level. in the name of transparency, non-discrimination and equal treatment, national markets are opened up to non-national companies, placing countries with very different economic developments on the same competitive footing. these conditions favour firms in the richer countries to the detriment of those in the more financially fragile ones, such as portugal, which have greater problems with growth and employment, thus increasing inequalities between eu countries. instead of supporting development policies by pursuing social, economic and environmental objectives in accordance with the political choices of each state, the economically peripheral countries are condemned to structural backwardness and external dependence. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. - i support this report, taking the view that the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring sound and effective procedures coupled with award criteria based on innovation and sustainability, while ensuring greater participation by smes and making e-procurement more widespread. the objective should be to maximise the potential of public procurement in the single market to foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion. given that public procurement markets constitute a significant part of the economy (estimated to represent 19% of eu gdp), the successful reformulation and implementation of public procurement rules would make a significant contribution to the relaunch of investment in the real economy and to overcoming the crisis in the european economy. i also welcome the commission's proposals and think that the new principles and ideas put forward are interesting, although they need to be improved to achieve the best possible results.
in writing. - given that public procurement represents millions of euros annually, its economic importance cannot be called into question. for this reason, although there is a long tradition of community legislation on these same contracts, it will never be too late to demand better and more effective laws, which ensure full transparency of procedures; which prevent all forms of corruption or manipulation of tenders; which limit, as far as possible, the number and value of contracts awarded without a call for competition or without negotiation; and which ensure effective competition in the internal market between competing undertakings, regardless of their country of origin. it is therefore essential to update the standards, as proposed here, with greater speed and efficiency, without compromising the existence of transparent, predictable and secure procedures that guarantee fair and equitable award criteria, while ensuring greater participation by smes and making electronic contracting more widespread.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the award of public contracts creates an important market which is very attractive to the private sector. for the major european economic groups this is a real slice of the pie, on which they have long wanted unconditional exploitation rights. opening the door to the liberalization and privatization of important public sectors of the economy. limiting states and public entities in defending their own interests, those of their citizens and their communities. the initial proposal of the european commission - as it is its own stamp, since it exists to serve monopolies - was intended to make this limitation absolute, creating a framework of total constraint on states and public entities, which this report, in a way, contradicted. the final text, after negotiations with the council, introduced important improvements on the commission's initial proposal, particularly as regards workers' rights, respect for collective agreements and some leeway for public contracting authorities to defend their interests in a sovereign manner.
in writing. − the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring robust and effective procedures coupled with innovation- and sustainability-based award criteria, while ensuring greater participation by smes and widespread e-procurement. we must make the most of the potential of public procurement in the single market to foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion. given that public procurement markets constitute a significant part of the economy (estimated to represent 19% of eu gdp), the successful reformulation and implementation of public procurement rules would make a significant contribution to the relaunch of investment in the real economy and to overcoming the crisis in the european economy.
in writing. − the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring robust and effective procedures coupled with award criteria based on innovation and sustainability, while ensuring greater participation by smes and widespread e-procurement. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the idea which has guided this reform.
in writing. − the ongoing reform aims to make existing rules more flexible through ease of application and strategic use of public purchasing power to achieve environmental, social and innovation objectives, as well as to increase the use of new techniques and instruments in procurement. among the various points agreed were the following: the definition of new rules for cooperation between public institutions, the obligation for member states to transpose all procedures and the strengthening of national means to combat social dumping. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive on the award of public contracts aims at opening up public markets and at completing/deepening the european internal market. the award of public contracts creates a large market which is very attractive to the private sector, opening the door to the liberalisation and privatisation of important public sectors of the economy. the pursuit of these economic policies has devastating repercussions for employment and development and the economy of more fragile countries such as portugal. however, the final text after negotiations with the council introduced important improvements over the initial proposal, particularly as regards possible award criteria including workers' rights and respect for collective agreements.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission's proposal is too weak, particularly as regards the social aspects. i therefore want to introduce respect for social standards at all stages of the public procurement process. i am therefore in favour of the possibility of including in the technical specifications requirements relating to performance, such as the environment, organisation, qualifications and experience of the workers involved in the performance of the contract; safety, in particular the methods of evaluating the quality of the products, packaging and instructions for use, life cycle and characteristics linked to the socially sustainable production process. i also consider it appropriate to introduce the concept of a socially sustainable production process in the award criteria, which is defined as the production process linked to the subject-matter of the contract, whether it is the supply of materials, the execution of works or the provision of services, which ensures compliance with the health and safety standards of workers and compliance with social standards.
in writing. - given that public procurement represents millions of euros annually, its economic importance cannot be called into question. for this reason, although there is a long tradition of community legislation on these same contracts, it will never be too late to demand better and more effective laws, which ensure full transparency of procedures; which prevent all forms of corruption or manipulation of tenders; which limit, as far as possible, the number and value of contracts awarded without a call for competition or without negotiation; and which ensure effective competition in the internal market between competing undertakings, regardless of their country of origin. it is therefore essential to update the standards, as proposed here for some specific sectors, in order to increase speed and efficiency, without compromising the existence of transparent, predictable and secure procedures that guarantee fair and equitable award criteria, while ensuring greater participation of smes and widespread electronic contracting.
in writing. − this directive on public procurement in the water, transport and postal services sectors is inseparable from the effective opening up of the market in these sectors, where states have traditionally exercised their social function through public services. this directive requires that, from the moment a contracting authority decides to outsource the performance of those functions, all economic operators in the eu must have effective access to the procedure. the gluttony of big capital is insatiable. the unravelling of all that is public is their ultimate goal. public procurement in these areas clashes with the provision of public services and thus attempts to ensure the legal framework for the award of contracts to private interests. in an increasingly unequal and anti-social eu, the big transnational companies in the richest countries will have the greatest advantages against the interests of workers and peoples. the claimed benefit to the consumer turns out to be a big lie. it only leads to more indebtedness of the states, and consequently to more unemployment and poverty. in the name of competitiveness and the dynamisation of the internal market, pressure is being put on workers' wages and established social and labour rights.
in writing. − the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring robust and effective procedures coupled with innovation- and sustainability-based award criteria, while ensuring greater participation by smes and widespread e-procurement. we must make the most of the potential of public procurement in the single market to foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion. given that public procurement markets constitute a significant part of the economy (estimated to represent 19% of eu gdp), the reform and successful implementation of public procurement rules would make a significant contribution to the revival of investment in the real economy and to overcoming the crisis in the european economy. the sectors concerned represent the vast majority of public procurement and are of major importance for the development and economic growth sought.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which advocates simplified public procurement for contracting authorities. in fact, the european parliament pays very close attention to the contracting authorities to whom the elements of the future directive on the award of contracts by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors are to be applied. it is for this reason that it enables contracting authorities to conclude contracts which are effective for the well-being of their communities but simple.
in writing. − the ongoing reform aims to make existing rules more flexible through ease of application and strategic use of public purchasing power to achieve environmental, social and innovation objectives, as well as to increase the use of new techniques and instruments in procurement. the agreement reached includes, inter alia, the alignment of this directive with the agreement reached under the package, the exclusion of certain postal services from the scope of the directive where competition is sufficiently present, a clarification of the concept of exclusive rights and a reciprocity clause already present in the existing directive. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this directive on public procurement in the water, transport and postal services sectors represents the effective opening up of the market in these sectors. this directive requires that, from the moment a contracting authority decides to outsource the performance of those functions, all economic operators in the eu must have effective access to the procedure. public procurement in this area clashes with the provision of public services and thus attempts to ensure the legal framework for the award to private interests. in a competitive and unequal eu, it will be the large transnational companies in the richest countries that will have the greatest advantage, thus deepening the divergence between countries. the claimed benefit to the consumer turns out to be a big lie. it only leads to more indebtedness of the states, and consequently to more unemployment and poverty. in the name of competitiveness and the dynamisation of the internal market, pressure is being put on workers' wages and established social and labour rights. we voted against it.
in writing. - i welcome this report, as i believe that there seems to be a growing discrepancy between the legal opening of the eu's public procurement markets and its ambitions and interests in this area on the one hand, and the restrictive practices of its main trading partners on the other. in my view, the public procurement market in the european union is characterised by a high degree of de jure openness to international competition, reflecting the union's commitment to trade liberalisation. in addition, public procurement in the european union is estimated to represent between 15 and 20% of gdp, with 85% of european markets open to foreign candidates worth eur 352 billion, compared to 32% in the united states worth eur 178 billion and 28% in japan worth eur 27 billion. i therefore consider that public procurement markets are generally of strong offensive interest to the european union in trade negotiations with third countries, since many union companies are highly competitive in a number of sectors.
in writing. − in march 2012, the commission presented the so-called international public procurement initiative, a proposal for a regulation aimed at restricting access to the eu public procurement market to third countries that do not grant reciprocal access to their respective markets. the report finds that the eu public procurement market is characterised by a high degree of openness to international competition, reflecting the eu's commitment to trade liberalisation. thus, it is estimated that eu public procurement represents between 15 and 20% of eu gdp, with 85% of european markets open to foreign candidates, compared to 32% in the united states and 28% in japan. this makes it clear that there are no conditions for reciprocity and that the opening up of the european market has no parallel in other markets. the proposal we are voting on is therefore intended to strengthen the european union's weight in international trade negotiations, in order to offer european economic operators the best opportunities for access to the non-eu public procurement market, and represents a unique opportunity for the european union to confirm its determination to guarantee equal treatment and conditions and reciprocity in access to public procurement.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation on third country access to the internal market in public procurement follows the report on the wto agreement on government procurement (gpa), which was recently given the green light by the european parliament. the commission's proposal aims to cover those countries which are not part of the acp and do not have free trade agreements with the eu. the eu now intends to open its market for goods and services to these countries unilaterally; the commission has also been able to provide the necessary information to the council and parliament on the progress of the negotiations. in addition to the large multinational companies benefiting from this reciprocal opening of public procurement markets, this regulation limits the sovereignty of states to regulate the award of public contracts in view of their own identified development needs. this regulation is another step in satisfying the insatiable appetite of the european monopolies, which are thus advancing in an area they have long wanted to get their hands on. the eu, and this parliament in particular, is once again acting as a business committee for big business. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − in march 2012, the commission presented the international public procurement initiative: a proposal for a regulation aimed at restricting access to the eu public procurement market by third countries that do not grant reciprocal access to their respective markets. the commission's objective is to obtain an advantage in bilateral trade negotiations with third countries in relation to the opening up of public procurement markets. many third countries are reluctant to open their public procurement markets to international competition or to grant greater openness than is already the case. as a result, economic operators face restrictive practices in this area in many of the european union's trading partners. with this proposal for a regulation we are seeking to complement the ongoing efforts of the eu to open up its public procurement markets in third countries to its companies. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in parallel with the ongoing trade negotiations with major partners (such as the usa, canada, japan or india) and the commitments made by 15 parties to the revised multilateral agreement on public procurement (acp), pending approval by the council and parliament, this proposal for a regulation is intended to complement the eu's ongoing efforts to open up its public procurement markets in third countries to its companies. i voted in favour of this report in which the eu uses its ability to partially and temporarily close its public procurement markets to companies from third countries that apply restrictive measures in relation to public procurement. the commission, based on trade relations in recent years, considers that this could provide an incentive for third countries to enter into negotiations with the eu on this matter.
in writing. − this is a new instrument which aims to improve the potential influence of public procurement in the european union's international negotiations with trading partners and to achieve substantial commitments on market access for the benefit of european citizens. the document thus aims to open up public procurement markets and to improve the proposed document, in particular by not fragmenting the internal market and not harming developing and least-developed countries. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation on third country access to the internal market in public procurement follows the report on the wto agreement on government procurement (gpa), which was recently given the green light by the european parliament. the commission's proposal aims to cover those countries which are neither part of the acp nor have free trade agreements with the eu. the eu is now unilaterally opening up its market for goods and services to these countries, while blackmailing those countries which do not want to open up their public procurement market, with possible reprisals. in addition to the large multinational companies benefiting from this reciprocal opening of public procurement markets, this regulation limits the sovereignty of states to regulate the award of public contracts in view of their own identified development needs. we didn't give our agreement.
in writing. - i consider honey to be a natural, healthy product. a potential labeling as containing genetically modified pollen in the ingredients would damage the reputation of honey. by defining pollen as an ingredient, consumers may think that pollen is a distinct product that is added to honey, when this is not the case. moreover, classifying pollen as an ingredient would considerably increase the costs of the tests carried out to obtain the information necessary for labelling, harming amateur beekeepers even more than professional beekeepers, considering their small-scale production. i would point out that the cjeu's conclusion remains valid. genetically modified pollen honey, as defined in article 3 (1) (c) of that regulation, is a food produced from gmos. this means that the amount of genetically modified pollen allowed for the application of the 0,9% labelling threshold will have to be calculated as a percentage of the total amount of the single ingredient honey, and not as a percentage of the total amount of pollen. the 0,9% limit applies to food and organic producers. in this sense, there will be an inequality of treatment between beekeepers and organic producers, which would not be fair.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal to amend the honey directive, based on a ruling by the court of justice, in relation to a complaint by beekeepers whose honey was found to contain pollen from genetically modified plants. the court's decision to consider pollen as an ingredient in honey has implications for small producers which should not be ignored, such as the increased cost of testing to obtain the information needed for labelling. although pollen is not an ingredient of honey but a naturally occurring component of it (a clarification which is intended to be introduced in the legislation), consumer information on the presence of gm pollen in honey should be ensured through labelling. and measures should be taken to avoid as far as possible the occurrence of gm pollen in honey. that is the spirit of the amendments we have tabled, which unfortunately have been rejected by the majority. even though we know that the problem can hardly be solved entirely in a framework such as we have today, in which the release and large-scale cultivation of gmos in nature is allowed, it was possible to go further and not simply ignore the problem of gm pollen in honey.
in writing. - i do not agree with the provisions of this directive, as i believe that the consumer should be aware, on the labelling of products, of their composition and whether or not they contain genetically modified components. in the case of honey, if the pollen is known to originate from genetically modified plants, this should be mentioned on the label and made known to the consumer.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i felt that the protection of european beekeepers producing honey without the presence of pollen from genetically modified plants and flowers, and the potential value of their production, were not guaranteed. the text adopted does not allow for a distinction to be made between honey produced from pollen from gmos and honey produced from pollen free of gmos, nor does it allow for consumers to be adequately informed about the true composition of the honey they buy and consume. although it is generally against the classification of pollen as an ingredient, i believe that such a designation should be given when it comes from gm plants and flowers and has a presence of more than 0.9%. a final reason why i am against the text adopted in plenary is that this directive makes it possible to mix honey produced in europe with honey from other geographical areas, without any reference to its origin and composition, and does not adequately protect european beekeepers.
in writing. − the main objective of this proposal is to make it explicit in directive 2001/110/ec that pollen is a natural component of honey and not an ingredient. the major element of this document is therefore to amend the technical characteristics relating to product names, descriptions and definitions and the criteria for their composition. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal to amend the honey directive, based on a ruling by the court of justice, in relation to a complaint by beekeepers whose honey was found to contain pollen from genetically modified plants. the court's decision to consider pollen as an ingredient in honey has implications for small producers which should not be ignored, such as the increased cost of testing to obtain the information needed for labelling. although pollen is not an ingredient of honey but a naturally occurring component of it (a clarification which is intended to be introduced in the legislation), consumer information on the presence of gm pollen in honey should be ensured through labelling. and measures should be taken to avoid as far as possible the occurrence of gm pollen in honey. even though we know that the problem can hardly be solved entirely in a framework such as we have today, in which the release and large-scale cultivation of gmos in nature is allowed, it was possible to go further and not simply ignore the problem of gm pollen in honey.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the commission has adopted a proposal for a regulation on the hercule iii programme for the promotion of actions in the field of the protection of the eu's financial interests. the new programme continues to place particular emphasis on the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes, to reflect the legal obligations imposed on the commission by virtue of the agreements it has concluded with four international manufacturers of tobacco products. i welcome the initiative to combat corruption, fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the european union, but i am in favour of replacing the questions of the effectiveness of such programmes, the proposed administrative costs of the programme and the impact on its overall budget in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the current multiannual financial framework and the need to ensure that budgetary restraint is reflected in the budget of the european union. i also insist in this proposal on the need for member states, the commission and the competent authorities to reduce potential overlaps and duplications with other anti-fraud programmes and tools of the european union and the member states.
in writing. - the hercule iii programme aims to promote actions to combat fraud throughout the european union, such as smuggling of cigarettes and other products. this programme will now be coordinated at european level to ensure its optimum use, will be co-financed at 80% and will have to comply with minimum requirements and performance indicators which will be duly assessed by the european institutions.
in writing. − the hercule iii programme is a multiannual action programme to promote action against fraud, corruption and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union for the period 2014-2020. this programme will fund competent entities such as national and regional administrations, research and education institutes and non-profit organisations, both in the provision of technical assistance and in training to meet the general objective of protecting rigor and transparency in the use of public funds. the legal basis for hercule ii expired at the end of 2013 and its replacement is intended to ensure the continuity of european support for activities carried out by the commission and the member states to provide better information, to carry out studies and to provide training and technical and scientific assistance in the fight against fraud. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the hercule programme relates in part to the activities of the european commission, and more specifically of olaf, and to cooperation with other european bodies and institutions as well as with the member states. the fundamental objectives of the proposal cannot therefore by their nature be achieved by action undertaken at national level alone. this programme aims to ensure equivalent protection in the member states and in all union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. it has a transnational dimension, enhancing cooperation between stakeholders in the different member states and with third countries. the main objective is to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union, thereby protecting the financial interests of the eu. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the hercule iii programme is designed to promote actions in the field of the protection of the european union's financial interests. i voted in favour of this report which reforms the programme and which, in order to improve the long-term impact of expenditure and avoid duplication, states that close and regular cooperation and coordination between the commission services and the competent authorities of the member states is necessary.
in writing. - the hercule iii programme was designed to promote anti-fraud activities, in particular in the fight against tobacco trafficking. initiatives such as this to combat corruption, fraud and illegal financial activities are to be welcomed; however, efforts should be made by member states, the commission and competent authorities to reduce potential overlaps with other eu anti-fraud programmes and tools. the amount for the implementation of the programme in the period 2014-2020 was set at eur 110 million, which reflects a substantial increase compared to hercule ii, so a reduction in administrative costs would be positive. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the hercule iii programme is a multiannual action programme to promote action against fraud, corruption and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union for the period 2014-2020. this programme will fund competent entities such as national and regional administrations, research and education institutes and non-profit organisations, both in the provision of technical assistance and in training to meet the general objective of protecting rigor and transparency in the use of public funds. we voted in favour.
in writing. − i approve of this report, considering it particularly important that the commission should carry out appropriate consultations during the preparatory work, including at the most efficient level of experts, after having informed the member states of who will be consulted and how respect for impartiality will be ensured and possible conflicts of interest avoided. furthermore, i am of the opinion that when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, the commission should ensure simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council. in the context of the strategy to provide the european statistical system with a new pyramid structure to improve coordination and partnership within the european statistical system, the european statistical system committee, as regards european statistics, should play an advisory role and assist the commission in the exercise of its implementing powers, as i consider that improving coordination between national authorities and the commission (eurostat) is essential for the production of high-quality statistics in the union.
in writing. - this report concerns the amendment of the regulation on statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states (em). the european commission intends to limit its implementing powers as regards the power to adopt delegated acts in this regard. the commission also proposes to amend the rules on the collection of statistics, to simplify statistical production, to ensure quality and efficiency in their production, to improve the exchange of information between member states, to define the concept of statistical value and to ensure effective control of the operationalisation of these statistics through the intrastat system. improving coordination between national authorities and eurostat is essential. the production of statistics and the exchange of information are essential and extremely useful, but should not entail high costs for member states. the need for a definition of statistical value and its clarification is emphasised in order to align the definition of this concept in the context of extra-eu trade. it is therefore essential that there is greater coordination at union level in the use of statistics in order to develop an integrated approach and increasingly reliable statistical indices. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in order to keep a reliable record of all trade between member states, it is necessary to ensure that there are uniform definitions and to ensure that national authorities can make coincident interpretations of the rules which have an impact on the cross-border activities of companies.
in writing. - this report concerns the amendment of the regulation on statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states. the european commission intends to limit its implementing powers as regards the power to adopt delegated acts in this regard. the commission also proposes to amend the rules on the collection of statistics, to simplify statistical production, to ensure quality and efficiency in their production, to improve the exchange of information between member states, to define the concept of statistical value and to ensure effective control of the operationalisation of these statistics through the intrastat system. improving coordination between national authorities and eurostat is essential. the production of statistics and the exchange of information are essential and extremely useful, but should not entail high costs for the ms concerned. i would stress the need for a definition of statistical value and its clarification in order to align the definition of this concept in the context of extra-eu trade. it is therefore essential that there is greater coordination at union level in the use of statistics in order to develop an integrated approach and increasingly reliable statistical indices. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the existence of statistics is essential to better understand reality and to take policy decisions on the basis of the information collected. granting delegated and/or implementing acts to the european commission to define the basis for the production of statistics may in this case - as in most cases - prove inadequate and without any democratic control. the definition of the basis for statistical production is linked to its objectives and the commission has shown that its objectives, proposed and defined measures are aimed at deepening the eu's single market, i.e. favouring the large monopolies that dominate it and the great powers, and not countries and peoples facing truly dramatic economic situations like portugal. this is not a question of mere statistical production, the preparation and organisation of which would be a supposedly neutral process. the proposal also gives a hierarchy to statistical systems, with the european statistical committee (esc) at the top. we abstained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 638/2004 on statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states, as regards the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures, the communication of information by the customs administration, the exchange of confidential data between member states and the definition of statistical value. by delegating powers to the commission, the legislator can focus on the key policy issues and choices and delegate the handling of other non-essential issues. in view of the respect of certain limits in the delegation of power: material limits (the delegation must be clear, precise and detailed, explaining the objectives, content and scope) and time limits, i agree with the text.
in writing. - this report concerns the amendment of the regulation on statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states. the european commission intends to limit its implementing powers as regards the power to adopt delegated acts in this regard. the commission also proposes to amend the rules on the collection of statistics, to simplify statistical production, to ensure quality and efficiency in their production, to improve the exchange of information between member states, to define the concept of statistical value and to ensure effective control of the operationalisation of these statistics through the intrastat system. parliament stressed that improved coordination between national authorities and eurostat was essential. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − improving coordination between national authorities and the commission (eurostat) is essential for the production of high quality statistics in the union. i voted in favour of the report because i think it is important that there should be an exchange of confidential data relating to statistics on intra-eu trade, and that this exchange of information should be allowed between member states and be free of charge where justified. i believe that this is the only way to make the statistics produced more efficient and to improve the dissemination of data.
in writing. - the existence of statistics is essential to better understand reality and to take policy decisions on the basis of data. the granting of delegated and/or implementing acts to the european commission to define the basis for the production of statistics may in this case - as in most cases - prove inadequate and without any democratic control. the definition of the basis for statistical production is linked to the objectives and the commission has shown - the eu in general - that its objective, the proposed and defined measures are aimed at deepening the eu's single market, that is, to favour the large monopolies that dominate them and the great powers and not countries and peoples facing truly dramatic economic situations like portugal. this is not, as would be necessary, the production of statistics to identify the entry and exit of goods and commodities for their regulation, placing limits on imports when there is sufficient domestic production and limiting exports when there is internal need. this could be the role of statistical production linked to the interest of each people and each country.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the european union is, on the one hand, a significant market and transit route for illegal trade in animal life. i believe that only through a coordinated response by all member states and the european union itself will we be able to deal effectively with this problem, both within the internal borders of the european union and in the global market, with the european union acting as a global actor in defence of animal rights.
in writing. − wildlife crime, based on poaching and the illegal exploitation of the transit of wild fauna and flora products and derivatives, through the illegal trade and use of these products in consumer countries, is now a serious transnational organised crime, with a turnover of at least usd 19 billion per year, and is currently the fourth largest illegal activity in the world after drug trafficking, counterfeiting and human trafficking. in addition to the horrific crime of slaughtering animals, which are often endangered, the economic result of this crime often serves to finance rebel groups in fragile regions, and must therefore be vigorously combated.
in writing. − wildlife crime, such as poaching, illegal trade in species or illegal transit of wildlife products and derivatives, is now taking on an international dimension, placing it among the largest and most profitable illegal activities in the world. these crimes have become a multi-million dollar criminal business, largely facilitated by the internet, and a sponsor of internal conflict in the countries where poaching occurs. the european union is an important market and transit route for the illegal wildlife trade. the data suggest an estimated €18-26 billion per year in revenues from trafficking in endangered species. the eu therefore has responsibilities in combating this phenomenon. the report argues that the eu and the member states should, both by working to implement and strengthen international conventions and by adapting legal frameworks (in particular sanctions), implement policies that discourage the consumption of products from vulnerable wildlife and support the recovery and conservation of wildlife populations by combating poaching, involving local communities, particularly in developing countries. we voted in favour.
in writing. − wildlife crime, from poaching and illegal exploitation to the illegal trade and use of wildlife products and derivatives in consumer countries, is now a serious transnational organised crime with a turnover of at least usd 19 billion per year, and is currently the fourth largest illegal activity in the world after drug trafficking, counterfeiting and human trafficking. illicit wildlife trafficking often involves transnational organised criminal networks and is used as a source of revenue for those networks and rebel militant groups. the eu is a major market for this kind of trafficking, so we must find solutions to stop this trade, which threatens the survival of countless species and the balance of ecosystems. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on wildlife crime, which stresses that the european union is both an important market and a transit route for the illegal trade in wildlife, with the eu being the world's main destination market, and calls on the commission to draw up without delay an eu action plan to combat wildlife crime and wildlife trafficking, including concrete objectives and timetables.
in writing. - unfortunately, the european union is one of the world's main markets for the illegal trafficking and transport of wildlife. organized crime groups, especially those with smuggling capacity, are attracted to these species due to the lack of legislation and police force deployed to do so. it is therefore of the utmost urgency that an action plan be drawn up to combat wildlife crime. member states should join efforts to strengthen their judicial system in terms of capacity and human resources, and to promote greater awareness of the matter. the committee also calls for the creation of a specialised wildlife crime unit within europol, which should have transnational powers and responsibilities, as well as sufficient human resources to carry out intensive analysis, coordinate joint investigations and a more coordinated strategy between member states. we cannot ignore this growing problem and each member state must actively work to raise citizens' awareness of the fact that wildlife crime is not just a european problem, but that in the long term it will affect our ecosystem, with a political, economic and social impact on communities around the world.
in writing. − the european union is an important market and transit route for illegal wildlife trade. the data suggest an estimated €18-26 billion per year in revenues from trafficking in endangered species. the eu therefore has responsibilities in combating this phenomenon. the report argues that the eu and the member states should, both by working to implement and strengthen international conventions and by adapting legal frameworks (in particular sanctions), implement policies that discourage the consumption of products from vulnerable wild species and support the recovery and conservation of wild species populations by combating poaching, involving local communities, particularly in developing countries. we voted in favour.
in writing. from the outset the safe harbour agreement was the subject of enormous political controversy. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the us privacy shield is a separate legal entity and that the us privacy shield is not a separate legal entity. unfortunately, it wasn't the best solution. this system lacks transparency and proportionality and discriminates against the rights of european citizens, as there is no individual right to a judicial remedy, no obligation on companies to pay compensation in the event of unlawful data processing, and the fact that american protection systems do not apply to european citizens. it was only with the recent revelations of the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens by the nsa and the actual involvement of self-certified electronic communications companies in the safe harbor that it was finally decided to undertake its evaluation in order to identify the fundamental deficiencies and to revise it. i regret that we have had to witness such a serious scandal in order to finally ask the fundamental question whether this agreement is really a safe harbor and whether it is worth keeping.
blue-card question. – mr van der stoep – your name seems dutch – how can you say that this is something that only concerns each country and national sovereignty, when countries like mine – portugal – are issuing what they call golden visas, possibly to criminals from other parts of the world? golden visas that are schengen visas!
question no 7 by mr barón crespo (h-0826/97) subject: the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia it is politically confusing because it is in your interest to attack the government with one thing or another, and what i am asking you, madam president, is whether you do not understand that what is happening in malta has nothing to do with what is happening in portugal, where you have to make transfers of more than one million euros, create 10 jobs or buy houses worth more than 500 000 euros, and really attract investment, and as you are maltese, you are the ideal person to make that distinction.
european citizenship is a fundamental principle, especially for those who believe in a people's europe and do not accept a europe limited to capital and goods. european citizenship has developed into a source of real and concrete rights, contributing to a sense of belonging to the european union and to the strengthening of a european identity. we know that there is no autonomous way of acquiring citizenship of the union other than by acquiring the nationality of a member state and we know that each member state has its own rules for the granting of its nationality, but this should not entail the sale of european citizenship. that is the essence of the maltese government's announced scheme for the sale of nationality, and contrary to what mrs gomes has said, many member states have legitimately taken measures to attract foreign investment by facilitating residence permits which allow you to reside in that member state and move within the territory of other schengen states for a maximum of three months without being able to take up residence or work in another member state and, of course, without access to european citizenship. however, the scheme which the maltese government intends to introduce does not even provide for the requirement of residence or genuine connection with the country, the financial criterion being the only criterion for obtaining nationality which implies an automatic right to european citizenship with all the rights and obligations inherent in it, both inside and outside the territory of the union. i agree with vice-president radin when she said that rights should not be traded. rights cannot be bought, they are recognized and require accountability. what is happening in malta will have a negative impact on european citizenship. i ask the commission to take the initiatives that seem possible and necessary, in particular in accordance with article 4 (3) of the treaty on european union. european citizenship is something very valuable to european citizens and cannot be for sale. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8)))
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr carlos coelho, can you confirm to our colleagues that in portugal there is also, as you have mentioned, a scheme for naturalisation, for acquiring nationality. this scheme is dependent on a certain number of years of residence - 6 to 10 years - and the authorisation of the minister of home affairs. it is a scheme for granting nationality indirectly, so the scheme you mentioned, which has been in force in portugal since last year, is also an indirect scheme for selling nationality.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mrs ana gomes is wrong and she knows she is wrong. all countries have systems for acquiring nationality and the portuguese system is very similar to that of almost all countries of the european union and has no privilege clause for those who make investments, that is, between the foreign investor or the foreign emigrant there are no different rules, the rules are exactly the same to acquire nationality, so your accusation is unfounded and you should apologize.
i would just like to say that if the rules of procedure of this house enshrine rights which are then arbitrarily not exercised by the bureau, then it is no use for them to be enshrined. i would like to record the number of times i have not been able to speak in this debate.
mr president, mr coelho suggested that i had knowingly misled this house. this is not true, and i just wanted to say that any real estate agency should check what i said: namely that portuguese nationality is obtained after five years of residence with a stay of 35 days in total, and that in six years, nationality can be granted. if commissioner reding is so against it, please tell the troika that this is the situation in portugal and that they allowed this system to be implemented.
mr president, normalization between serbia and kosovo is crucial to the prospects of the two countries' integration into the european union. after the april agreement, facilitated by high representative cathy ashton, the reality on the ground began to change. however, as the november elections have shown, there are still different interpretations of the april compromise. the serbian government must put a stop to political sponsorship of an association of serb municipalities in northern kosovo, after it campaigned for the serb party in the november elections. the european union must make good on its april commitment to open negotiations for serbia's accession. it is important to maintain the parallel progression for serbia and kosovo. the council should therefore make it possible to sign a stabilisation and association agreement with pristina. but to do that, we must overcome the obstacles within the european union itself. we must recognize the reality on the ground, persuade the five eu member states which have not yet recognised kosovo's independence to do so, and scare away their own ghosts.
madam president, three years after independence, violence and suffering on a large scale have returned to south sudan, a humanitarian disaster for which the european union must respond, in coordination with other international actors and local organisations, including religious organisations. the european union's entire diplomatic effort in addis ababa, in the framework of igad mediation, must seek an immediate ceasefire, the release of political prisoners in juba and an unequivocal declaration by the leaders of south sudan that the violence is stopped and that the perpetrators of human rights violations will be held accountable. because without it, violence will become a way of life. the international community has invested billions of euros in recent years in building capacity for governance, infrastructure, provision of basic services in south sudan. we need to rethink this strategy, as it seems that we are favouring the interests of elites in an increasingly authoritarian government, which favours corruption and its ethnicities. ethnic violence is being fomented from the top, it's becoming recurrent in a country where the military is divided. so we need to engage the african union to hold leaders to account at the highest level and ensure a commitment to an interim government by the 2015 elections, an inclusive national reconciliation process, and ensure independent investigations into human rights violations and a comprehensive constitutional review. we must ensure that south sudan ends its internal conflict and does not allow itself to be exploited by the criminal regime of omar al-bashir in the north and other regional powers. in this connection, i support the proposals by other members for the renewal of the mandate of the european union's special representative, ambassador alexander rondos.
the commission has already submitted to the council a proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of the agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community and mexico. mr george cutaş is the co-author of the question on mexico and mrs maría auxiliadora correa zamora, who unfortunately cannot be with us in this debate, is the co-author and the driving force behind the question on chile. let me begin by thanking both of you for your decisive contribution to these two questions and to the debate we are about to begin. relations between the union and mexico are based on the economic partnership, political consultation and cooperation agreement which entered into force in october 2000. relations with chile are governed by the association agreement signed in november 2002. we are therefore dealing with agreements concluded more than a decade ago. when these two agreements were signed, they were among the most advanced and ambitious trade agreements in the european union. since then, however, the trade policy context has changed significantly on both sides. the union has embarked on a dynamic negotiating agenda for bilateral trade agreements, including in the americas, in particular with central america, colombia and peru. it has recently concluded negotiations with canada, is negotiating the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states and is still actively negotiating with mercosur. mexico and chile, for their part, are engaged in the negotiations on the trans-pacific partnership, are members of the pacific alliance, the latest regional integration initiative in latin america, together with colombia and peru, and have concluded several other trade agreements with a number of other countries. it is in this context that the debate on the possible modernisation or updating of these two agreements is of great relevance and that the options for such modernisation should be studied by the trading partners. in fact, on the european union side, the latest generation of trade agreements, starting with korea, are much more ambitious in terms of their scope and the depth of trade liberalization. it is enough to mention such issues as services, public procurement, intellectual property rights and foreign direct investment, without forgetting the chapter on sustainable development, with labour and environmental standards, which is now a mandatory part of the union's trade agreements. we have this joint debate today on the trade agreements with mexico and chile, and exactly to what extent do they need to be revised and, if necessary, updated... modernized. the first question is whether we should proceed to update or extend the existing agreements or whether we should start by activating the revision clause in the agreement with mexico and the evolutionary clause in the agreement with chile, clauses which give some room for manoeuvre to extend these two agreements. the two oral questions are therefore intended primarily to obtain an assessment from the european commission of trade relations with the european union and mexico and chile, after several years of implementation of their respective agreements, to understand whether and to what extent the current legal framework with each of these countries needs to be modernised, what are the options and key elements of this possible modernisation, and, if necessary, to know the least realistic time horizons. and finally, to know what priority these two countries have on the union's negotiating agenda in the face of the active trade agenda of the ongoing negotiations. these are the main aims of the two inta questions and now, as a member of this parliament, i want this debate to achieve its objectives. we look forward to hearing from the commission.
madam president, commissioner, the agreement between the european union and chile has been overtaken by the circumstances of history. two factors have made the review and modernisation of this agreement both demanding and urgent. first was the pacific alliance, announced in april 2011, an initiative by peru, colombia, chile and mexico, with a view to creating a regional organization to progressively build an area of economic integration in latin america, with free movement of people, goods, services and capital. and more recently, the negotiations on ttip, which will be perhaps the largest trade partnership agreement in the world. the commissioner told us here a moment ago that the commission has prepared an informal document for the new agreement. well, it's time to hurry up with those jobs, commissioner. the union and chile together cannot afford to lose the moment of a new presidency in chile, a new government and soon a new european parliament and a new commission to rebuild this decade-old relationship and deepen the partnership which has brought benefits to both sides. we ask the commission to be involved in the negotiations to revise the agreement, and you can count on the support of the delegation to the eu-chile joint parliamentary committee, which i chair, to strengthen the partnership with chile.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, we now know that the number of homeless people in the european union is an underestimated number, because not only are people living on the streets not really counted, but also those who are not living on the streets but have been evicted from their homes as a result of austerity measures and because they are not economically able to pay the rent and benefits they used to pay. these people, though in a different way, also do not have the right to housing and also can only be in a house because of the solidarity of their families and the social solidarity of their community. it's important not to forget this. but you can't talk about the homeless without talking about the very central issue that countries must guarantee the right to housing which is recognized, by the way, in the universal declaration of human rights. it is not possible to talk about a real and serious homelessness strategy without talking about fighting unemployment, promoting economic development, ending the deterioration of social rights and cuts in wages, pensions and social benefits. if we don't talk about this, it's a joke that we're talking about a real strategy to combat the existence of the homeless. and it is not possible, in our view, to include any kind of european semester possibility, because those are the policies that are cutting wages and causing the number of homeless people to be increasing. talking about it is a contradiction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the problem of homelessness in europe is a serious social problem. this form of poverty and social exclusion is disturbing and should challenge us and make us act. action that must be urgent and effective. the union's strategy for the homeless must reach all those who need to see the right to housing, the right to a decent life, with the fundamental rights associated with it: education, employment, social protection, and family life, guaranteed. this is a problem of very diverse dimensions, requiring preventive action and rapid intervention. in most member states, poverty levels and the number of homeless people have increased, which is contrary to one of the objectives of the 2020 strategy. a european strategy is needed to enable stronger action and help member states to respond as effectively as possible to this very serious phenomenon. only joint action by the member states and the union will reduce the number of homeless people and even eradicate the phenomenon, so that no one has to remain on the streets for lack of alternatives.
in writing. the phenomenon of homelessness is a violation of human dignity and human rights. the situation is alarming. the number of homeless people is increasing in 15 eu member states. portugal, spain, greece and italy are the countries most affected and the main cause pointed out is unemployment. the ep has already called on the ec on several occasions to present, in cooperation with the main stakeholders, a european strategy for the homeless. we advocate that this strategy should be implemented by the end of 2015, following the lines of parliament's resolution of 14 september 2011. we know, however, that ending the phenomenon of homelessness is primarily the responsibility of the member states. the council cannot continue to sit on its hands and must discuss and adopt a european strategy to solve the problem. it is also urgent to put an end to any form of criminalisation of homeless people which often leads to the marginalisation of entire communities. the commission and the council must do more and better and put political pressure on member states which do not solve the problem and resort to sanctions.
in writing. all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, and it is the responsibility of the member states to guarantee and promote these rights. this is unfortunately a trend which has been increasing in recent years in the european union and which is representative of one of the most extreme forms of poverty and misery. it is a reality which, due to the recent economic and financial crisis, has been felt in several member states and has reached a level never seen before. the creation of a european homelessness strategy is urgently needed, with the commission issuing specific recommendations for each member state and encouraging them to include preventive measures in their national reform programmes. it is urgent that a qualitative sample of the material be collected so that a more effective instrument can be built. it should be noted that the new european social fund regulations already provide for a number of indicators to monitor the new instruments created to combat the problem of people affected by housing exclusion.
he asks under the blue card procedure. madam president, i would like to ask the honourable member whether he has read my report. second, you use contraception. thirdly, whether it is not time to respect women's rights.
madam president, i should like to make it clear that the right wing of the european parliament has used every means to prevent the vote on my report. the star report was never voted on, so it was never rejected. contrary to what they say, it was not clear what the european parliament's position was, because i am convinced that if there had not been gross translation errors, particularly in french and german, my report would probably have been voted on and adopted. what is happening in spain with the voluntary termination of pregnancy concerns all women. i'm in solidarity with the spanish women. sexual and reproductive health is not a matter of tradition or culture. it's a basic right. it is a matter of freedom, dignity and respect for women. portugal was one of the last western countries to legalize abortion. it was 2007. before 2007, wealthy portuguese women traveled to spain to terminate their pregnancies in a safe environment. the poorest women resorted to clandestine abortion. if this change that the government now wants to make goes ahead, it will be the spanish women who go to portugal to have the abortion safely - those who have economic possibilities.
madam president, it is unacceptable that today parliament is not even able to defend women's rights and sexual and reproductive rights, at least in theory. these rights, it should be remembered, were won over decades by the struggle of many people, and above all by the hard struggle of many women. this is also an issue that we know in spain, that if it goes ahead it will affect and will put in question the health of many women, especially the most disadvantaged. that doesn't sound like anybody cares. and it is also important to say that those who are so concerned about embryos and fetuses are also those who advocate policies that deny people the right to education, the right to health, the right to a life of dignity. that's why it's hypocritical.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recognition of ecological damage by european and international legislation is an indispensable first step towards taking a position that is becoming increasingly necessary in the face of the real and serious risk of ecological disasters. many have been those resulting from marine pollution caused by oil spills, whether by accident, shipwreck or sinking of ships, among which is that of the prestige. the environmental devastation is then enormous, with a strong impact on marine and coastal biodiversity, as well as great economic and social damage to coastal communities. today, a growth in maritime transport of more than 3% per year, with ever larger ships, contributes to a significant increase in the risk of accidents at sea. another factor that increases the risk is the increasing number of extreme weather events in the context of climate change. the protection of coastal regions and their populations requires that the possibility of ecological disasters caused by marine pollution be taken into account, and that effective mechanisms be established to compensate for the damage caused by the serious and long-term impact on the environment and marine resources of traditional activities such as fishing, aquaculture, sea fishing, nautical tourism and bathing, as well as emerging maritime activities in the blue economy. in this context, in addition to the necessary compliance with the established polluter-pays principle, it is essential to adapt european and international legislation to include a concrete definition of the concept of ecological damage and its liability, with a view to allowing an effective and rapid mitigation of the negative impacts of ecological disasters, as well as the creation of a specific european fund for compensation for ecological damage resulting from marine pollution caused by the massive oil spill in shipping accidents.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your comments. on behalf of the commission, i can assure you that these comments are taken into account by the commission. you also underlined the construction of ships and substandard ships, and after the prestige and erika accidents, much work has been done to improve the quality and resistance of ships, so we should not ignore this either. regarding the polluter pays principle and the existing legislation, the existing international conventions on liability for oil pollution play a very important role in upholding compensation claims for environmental damage. when it comes to recognition and reparation of environmental damage, the eu and its member states have traditionally led efforts to raise international standards, and we have been successful in raising these standards in the past. this is why we now have a very comprehensive international regime at our disposal in the event of maritime accidents. in the pursuit of constant improvement, the eu is looking into the available information on accidents at sea which have resulted in environmental damage. the environmental liability directive establishes a comprehensive definition of damage to the environment or ecological damage, including that which occurs in water. under eu law, there is no distinction to be drawn between ‘environmental’ and ‘ecological’ damage. during 2014, the commission is due to report to parliament and the council on the outcome of its study on the effectiveness of the environmental liability directive.
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to express my concern and regret that the resolutions we are preparing to vote on today were not available in all the languages until last night. they were not available in portuguese and many other languages. this delay in translations is a practice which has been repeated, which is worrying and regrettable, especially in the light of the cuts made in parliament's budget for translation expenditure, and which clearly calls into question respect for the principle of multilingualism and the right of members to work in their own languages.
mr president, very briefly, to say the following... and i'm going to speak slowly on purpose. the interpretation in yesterday's debate, in the question i asked, was the exact opposite of what it meant. and what i ask of you, your excellency, is that, given that the english records record the opposite of what i said, that you correct this interpretation, saying that it is important that in this plenary, where we work in different languages, we can trust that what is translated is what we say, because otherwise we do not understand each other. and in conclusion, mr president, i said that mrs metsola was the ideal person to clarify this matter, and what was translated was that mrs metsola was not the ideal person to clarify it. and i ask that this correction be made in the english records of this parliament.
in writing. - i agree that the european union needs an industrial strategy that places equal emphasis on competitiveness, innovation and sustainability, so that new jobs can be created. only in this way, with sustainable growth and by addressing the fragility of the sector can industry be developed.
in writing. - the negative points outnumber the positive guidelines for the reindustrialisation of europe presented in this extensive document. the example of this is the panacea for all ills - the deepening of the single market and liberalization: energy, telecommunications, transport, eco-products, venture capital, etc. all this is properly integrated into the european semester process and the national reform programmes, thus legitimised, as are the structural reforms (of labour and production markets in order to reduce labour costs, the weight of wages in national income and state intervention in the economy) they advocate. the use of public-private partnerships and the formation of smart specialisation clusters, including transnational and regional clusters, in an increasingly open and liberalised market environment are also advocated. what portugal needs is an industrial policy which gives priority to the development of national production, taking into account the country's specific development needs and valuing and enabling the development of smes. this will not be possible without a determined, committed and vigorous intervention by the state, without a state policy to support the industrial development of the country. we voted against it. in view of the liberal orientation of the report, it remains to add that the rapporteur is from the green group.
in writing. - the crisis has been a severe blow to the eu economies. since the start of the crisis, eu gdp has been declining or at best stagnating. unemployment has increased, particularly among young people and the elderly. only an effective reindustrialisation policy can reverse this trend. we must allocate substantial financial resources to make this reindustrialisation, to get back on the path of growth, while promoting competitiveness and sustainability. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european union needs a strategy to deal with the economic and financial crisis and to boost a new economic dynamism. european industry has a key role to play and is an important part of the solution to this crisis. at international level, several countries have developed their own industrial strategies. more recently, japan has defined a new industrial plan. with its five year plans and the recent 2012 national strategic emerging industries plan, china has also focused on industrial policy. even the united states has strong industrial policies, although it does not use that designation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this important report which sets out the strategy for reindustrialising europe with the ultimate aim of promoting competitiveness and sustainability.
in writing. - the crisis in europe has highlighted the need to rebuild europe's industrial base. this is the basis for the concept of reindustrialisation, which aims to strengthen european competitiveness, create jobs and growth and establish a low-carbon, low-emission and resource-efficient economy. a strategy that must create an industrial policy that responds to the sector's problems, invests in r & d, creates better financing conditions and establishes fair energy prices. on the other hand, i am also in favour of ecodesign as a circular economy concept. i am voting for an industry that is driven by sustainable, innovative and efficient values.
in writing. - the negative aspects of the report are much more serious than the positive ideas for the reindustrialisation of europe which this extensive document presents. the european union's well-known panacea for all ills is an example of this - the hallowed liberalisation of the single market for the most diverse sectors: for goods, energy, telecommunications, transport, green products and venture capital, alongside alignment with the failed europe 2020 strategy and integrated into the european semester process and the national reform programmes. the use of public-private partnerships and the formation of smart specialisation clusters, including transnational and regional clusters, in an increasingly open and deregulated market environment are also given priority, i.e. the same ingredients that led portugal and other countries to the economic ditch, which has resulted in a highly burdensome policy for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). we are in favour of an industrial policy which gives priority to the development of national production, of the strategic sectors defined by each country, the dynamisation of its industry, taking account of the specific development needs and valuing and enabling the development of smes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the committee on economic and monetary affairs has decided to approve the appointment of sabine lautenschläger on the basis of the assessment of qualifications, in accordance with article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the committee received from sabine lautenschläger a curriculum vitae and the replies to the written questionnaire sent by the commission. in addition to these proceedings, sabine lautenschläger was heard, during which she made an introductory statement and answered questions put by the members of the committee. on the basis of the entire evaluation process and its outcome, i agree with the council's recommendation to appoint sabine lautenschläger as the new spokesperson for the executive board of the european central bank.
in writing. − following the departure of jorg asmussen from the executive board of the european central bank (ecb), sabine lautenschläger from germany has been appointed as a possible replacement for the former member of the governing council. sabine lautenschläger is currently vice-president of the bundesbank (german central bank), has extensive experience in the area of banking supervision and working in the field of banking and monetary affairs, as required by the treaty on the functioning of the european union to perform the position to which she is appointed. the candidate was heard in the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs, where meps approved almost unanimously her appointment to the council of the european union, which represents the eu states and which also approved her appointment. the governing council of the ecb has no objection to the nomination of the proposed candidate. in this sense, and in view of the medium- and long-term vision of stability that sabine lautenschläger has shown for the development of monetary policy in the euro area, i consider her choice to be a good option. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate and applaud the new member of the executive board of the european central bank, sabine lautenschläger. it is never too late to recall the importance of the european central bank for the financial stability of the whole union, in particular the euro area, and the decisive role it plays in keeping inflation under control in all the euro area countries.
in writing. − following the departure of jorg asmussen from the executive board of the european central bank (ecb), sabine lautenschläger from germany has been appointed as a possible replacement for the former member of the governing council. sabine lautenschläger is currently vice-president of the bundesbank (german central bank), has extensive experience in the area of banking supervision and working in the field of banking and monetary affairs, as required by the treaty on the functioning of the european union to perform the position for which she is appointed. the candidate was heard on monday in the european parliament, in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (where meps approved her appointment almost unanimously) and last week in the council of the european union, which represents the eu states and also approved her appointment. the governing council of the ecb has no objection to the nomination of the proposed candidate. in this sense, and in view of the medium- and long-term vision of stability that sabine lautenschläger has shown for the development of monetary policy in the euro area, i consider her choice to be a good option. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. the appointment of sabine lautenschläger, former vice-president of the deutsche bundesbank, as the new spokesperson for the executive board of the european central bank (ecb), does not imply any change in the institution's strategic options. the monetarist orthodoxy will be maintained, the way in which the ecb has acted in the face of the crisis, its limits and its action in the service of big capital, especially german big capital, will be maintained. the euro will remain overvalued, which will increase the constraints on economies in a very fragile situation, such as portugal. the submission of the states to the extortion of the financial markets (read banking and financial capital) will continue, which continue to impose speculation through unbearable interest rates, while the ecb not only continues to watch inaction on the public debt markets, but also continues to provide credit at less than 1% interest to the banks. for our part, we continue to consider it essential to make a fundamental change in the statute, the guidelines and the false autonomy of the european central bank, ensuring that the member states are equally present at its direction, in order to ensure effective political control by its member states and control by each state of the national central bank and monetary policy - including the monetary instrument - in favour of economic growth and employment.
in writing. − the committee on economic and monetary affairs assessed ms lautenschläger's qualifications, in particular with regard to the requirements laid down in article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and, as follows from article 130 of the treaty, the imperative of the ecb's full independence in the area of monetary policy. as part of this evaluation, the committee received a curriculum vitae of sabine lautenschläger and the answers to the written questionnaire which had been sent to her. during the hearing in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, it maintained a very positive performance. the european central bank is the backbone of the eu's monetary policy. its members must be chosen from the best. this is the case of sabine lautenschläger. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − with the departure of jorg asmussen from the executive board of the european central bank (ecb), the german sabine lautenschläger has been appointed as a possible replacement for the former member of the governing council. sabine lautenschläger is currently vice-president of the bundesbank (german central bank), has extensive experience in the area of banking supervision and working in the field of banking and monetary affairs, as required by the treaty on the functioning of the european union to perform the position for which she is appointed. the candidate was heard on monday in the european parliament, in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (where meps approved her appointment almost unanimously) and last week in the council of the european union, which represents the eu states and also approved her appointment. the governing council of the ecb has no objection to the nomination of the proposed candidate. in this sense, and in view of the medium-term and stability vision that sabine lautenschläger has shown for the development of monetary policy in the euro area, i consider her choice to be a good option and therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - sabine lautenschläger is hereby appointed as the new spokesperson for the executive board of the european central bank. given the nominee's background and professional experience, for example the fact that she has been vice-president of the deutsche bundesbank since 2011, i cannot disagree with her in any way and have therefore voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. the appointment of sabine lautenschläger, former vice-president of the deutsche bundesbank, as the new spokesperson for the executive board of the european central bank (ecb), does not imply any change in her strategic options for monetary policy in the eu and its impact on the economy. the way the ecb has acted in the face of the crisis, its limits and its action in the service of big capital will remain. the overvalued euro will remain, which prevents highly fragile economies such as portugal from gaining competitiveness and growth, without which it will not be possible to cope with the public debt problem. the submission of the states to the extortion of the financial markets (read banking and financial capital) which continue to impose speculation through unbearable interest rates will continue, while the ecb not only continues to watch inaction on the public debt markets, but also continues to provide credit at less than 1% interest to the banks. we continue to consider it essential to make a fundamental change in the statute, the guidelines and the false autonomy of the european central bank, ensuring that the member states are equally involved in its management.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the french authorities have requested that the scope of the council decision be extended to cover the tax on alcoholic beverages in respect of their overseas territories. i think that the intention to allow a lower rate than the traditional rum produced in the four french outermost regions to be applied is valid and that it benefits the local economy of the region. i am in favour of this initiative and of the commission's proposal, which allows france to apply, during the period 2014-2020, a reduced rate of excise duty and a vss up to 50% of their minimum rates. i also support the proposal to france to draw up an interim report to the european commission by 31 july 2017. i consider it important that france should make an overall assessment of the impact of the granting of the tax benefit granted. it is important to take stock in 2017 to determine whether there is still an interest in continuing the application of this measure. it should also be examined whether this measure is sufficient in itself to support the competitiveness of the rum-cane value chain in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion.
in writing. since december 2011, traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments has benefited from a special derogation which allows it to have a reduced rate of excise duty. however, this derogation expired at the end of december 2013. however, the european commission, at the request of the french government, and considering that the minimum assumptions are met, has proposed that this derogation be applied again for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. - this measure is intended to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantage they face, caused by the persistence and combination of factors such as remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate. the economic dependence on a small number of products, in particular the sugar cane-rum value chain, is also a determining factor, which severely restricts its development. this proposal seeks to extend for a further seven years the application of decision 2007/659/ec authorising france to apply, in its metropolitan territory and in respect of traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments, a reduced rate of excise duty which may be lower than the minimum rate of excise duty but which may not be more than 50% lower than the normal national rate of excise duty on alcohol. the reduced rate of excise duty is limited to an annual quota of 120 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol. the french authorities also requested that the scope of the council decision be extended to include the tax on alcoholic beverages. these are justified measures, and we have therefore voted in favour of them.
in writing. − council decision 2007/659/ec of 9 october 2007 authorises france to apply, in the territory of metropolitan france and in respect of traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments, a reduced rate of excise duty which may be lower than the minimum rate of excise duty provided for in council directive 92/84/eec but which may not be lower by more than 50% than the normal national rate of excise duty on alcohol. this measure is intended to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantage they face, caused by the persistence and combination of factors such as remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate, and their economic dependence on a limited number of products, in particular the cane-sugar-rum value chain, which severely restrict their development. with this proposal, we will extend this authorization for another seven years. i think that this reduction is fair, because it helps the peripheral regions, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of extending the tax derogation allowing france to apply, in the territory of metropolitan france and in respect of traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments, a reduced rate of excise duty which may be lower than the minimum rate of excise duty provided for in council directive 92/84/eec, but which may not be more than 50% lower than the normal national rate of excise duty on alcohol. the reduced rate of excise duty is limited to an annual quota of 120 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol. this is a common demand of the outermost regions with a view to economic growth and increased employment.
in writing. − decision 2007/659/ec authorises france to apply to traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments a reduced rate of excise duty which may be lower than that provided for in council directive 92/84/ec, limited to an annual quota of 120 000 hl of pure alcohol, until 31 december 2013. this document calls for an extension of this directive for the period 2014-2020 and requests that france prepare an interim report addressed to the european commission by 31 july 2017 so that the reasons for this concession can be assessed. the main objective of this measure is to compensate producers in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion for the competitive disadvantage they face, caused by their insularity, small size, topography and difficult climate. as a person from an outermost region, i am aware of how this measure can stimulate the economy of these regions, which is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this measure is intended to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantage they face, caused by the persistence and combination of factors such as remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate. the economic dependence on a small number of products, in particular the cane-sugar-rum value chain, is also a determining factor that severely restricts its development. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve the present report, considering that the defence of immunity can only be applied if the immunity of a member is compromised under the legal order of his own state (by police action or by the judicial authorities of the member's state of origin) and if no request for the waiver of that member's immunity has been made. i therefore believe that in such cases the member may request the defence of his immunity in accordance with the rules of procedure of the european parliament. i believe that a review of these rules of procedure will be beneficial, as it will increase the transparency of the european parliament's decisions and procedures concerning the parliamentary immunity of its members.
in writing. − the immunity of members of parliament must be understood as an essential guarantee of the regular and free functioning of legislative assemblies. if it does not seem possible today that in most member states freedom of movement and expression, as well as the health and even the lives of members of parliament, could be jeopardised, this has not always been the case. there is therefore a relevant historical backdrop to this legal form which should not be overlooked, but its importance does not stop there. with the increasing judicialisation of political life, it is not uncommon for political leaders to be sued in court, not for a judicial conviction but for a political sanction and suspicion which are not always appropriate. it is therefore urgent to strike a fair balance between the possibility for members to request the waiver of parliamentary immunity when they or the house consider it justified, and at the same time to ensure that this prerogative which is intended to defend each member and the house as a whole is not called into question for irrelevant reasons. i hope that the amendments introduced will strengthen this sense of balance and help to give the parliamentary function a more prestigious status.
in writing. - this report deals with issues relating to the application of the immunity regime for members. the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament (juri - committee on privileges and immunities) has proposed a recast of the existing rules on immunity in the rules of procedure in order to reflect both the case law of the court of justice and the practice of that committee. this report follows the recommendations of the juri committee. the report focuses on four points, based on the case law of the ecj: 1) the defence of parliamentary immunity is a way for the ep to intervene, at the request of a member, when national authorities violate or are preparing to violate the immunity of one of its members; 2) a clarification that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence and integrity of parliament as a whole and of its members; (3) the repeated use of requests without new evidence must be avoided. finally, the report specifies the right of members to be heard by the commission, providing for the prevention of the use of this right as a tool to delay the procedure. we have voted in favour of this, following the position of our group.
in writing. - i have tabled my vote in favour of the amendment to parliament's rules of procedure concerning the waiver and defence of parliamentary immunity. a reformulation of the rules has been proposed to bring them up to date with recent case law and the practice which has been established in the committee responsible for the subject under consideration. as the diploma in question states, parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members, and updating the rules governing this matter was therefore of the utmost importance in order to defend the prestige of this institution.
in writing. − on the basis of the draft opinions and the final opinions of the juri committee, the european parliament proposed that the relevant rules on the defence of parliamentary immunity be recast in order to make their structure more coherent and to adapt their substance to recent case law and the practice of the committee responsible. parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of the member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members. the rules of procedure should therefore regulate this matter in a legally unassailable manner and in sufficient detail to protect the prestige of the institution in which the citizens of the union are directly represented. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of the member but a guarantee of the independence of the whole parliament and its members. i believe that immunity should be waived in all cases where it is necessary to clarify legal situations, and that only the appearance in court should not affect the parliamentary work of members.
in writing. - this report deals with issues relating to the application of the immunity regime for members. the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament (juri - committee on privileges and immunities) has proposed a recast of the existing rules on immunity in the rules of procedure in order to reflect both the case law of the court of justice and the practice of the commission. this report follows the recommendations of the juri committee. the report focuses on four points, based on the case law of the ecj: 1) the defence of parliamentary immunity is a way for the ep to intervene, at the request of a member, when national authorities violate or are preparing to violate the immunity of one of its members; 2) a clarification that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence and integrity of parliament as a whole and of its members; (3) the repeated use of requests without new evidence must be avoided. we have voted in favour of this, following the position of our group.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the cultivation of gmos has not been authorised in the european union since 2010. another reason for my view is that there are no studies to safely assess the long-term risks of gmo cultivation and the consequences for human health and the environment. i reiterate that there is a need for a more rigorous assessment of the effects of gmos through independent research. i would point out that today, in the face of a lack of information, the vast majority of consumers are concerned about genetically modified food. i do not think that the cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507 brings any advantages to consumers. for these reasons, i am opposed to the adoption of the proposal for a council decision on the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize (zea mays l., line 1507), by giving priority to the interests of consumers, the safeguarding of public health and the protection of the environment.
in writing. − efsa issued, at the request of the commission, three scientific opinions updating its previous risk assessments and recommendations in which, in february 2012, it disagreed with the applicant's conclusion that the study it cited provided satisfactory evidence that maize 1507 poses a negligible risk in the eu to non-target lepidopterans, and instead drew attention to the fact that highly sensitive non-target moths and butterflies may be at risk due to their exposure to maize 1507 pollen. i also recall that the cultivation of gmos has not been authorised in the eu since 2010, when the cultivation of the amflora potato was authorised and even the authorisation to cultivate this potato was annulled by the general court of the european union on 13 december 2013. i therefore believe that the proposal for a council decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of a genetically modified maize (zea mays l., line 1507) should be carefully reviewed, always keeping in mind the health of consumers.
in writing. - the resolution opposes the adoption of the proposal for a council decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of maize genetically modified to give it resistance to certain lepidopterans. it is requested that no new varieties of gmos be authorised and that old authorisations not be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been considerably improved. in particular, this type of gmo has known consequences on highly sensitive non-target insect species. impact studies on other organisms are lacking. in the risk assessment, efsa admitted that it had not taken into account the potential risks associated with the tolerance of this maize to the herbicide ammonium glufosinate, classified as toxic for reproduction, which could lead to an increase in the use of this herbicide. in addition to the risks to biodiversity posed by the proliferation of gm crops, which have a competitive advantage over other non-modified species, the release of these gmos into the environment can have serious consequences for ecosystems, in particular compromising conventional and organic crops, it adds that at present it is not possible to provide scientifically credible assurances of the safety of gm products in food and feed. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the proposal for a resolution opposes an exceptional derogation allowing the placing on the market for cultivation of maize (zea mays l., line 1507) genetically modified to confer resistance to certain lepidopterans. i am in favour of this derogation and i support the position of the ppe group, which is why i voted against this motion for a resolution, which was nevertheless adopted by the european parliament. in this context, i would stress that a fundamentalist overall position on the part of the european union with regard to gmos has created a situation of severe competitive imbalance between european farmers and, for example, north american farmers, in addition to the continuing inconsistency of prohibiting the cultivation of gmos in the european area, but importing them from other geographical areas, such as north america, for the feed of our livestock.
in writing. − the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) has not been authorised in the european union since 2010, with only monsanto mon 810 maize authorised, but the authorisation of which has been pending for some years. i am voting in favour of opposing the proposal for a council decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation, in accordance with directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, of a maize (zea mays l., line 1507) because this product, when genetically modified, confers resistance to certain lepidopterans.
in writing. - the resolution opposes the adoption of the proposal for a council decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of maize genetically modified to give it resistance to certain lepidopterans. it is requested that no new varieties of gmos be authorised and that old authorisations not be renewed until the methods used for risk assessment have been considerably improved. in particular, this type of gmo has known consequences on highly sensitive non-target insect species. impact studies on other organisms are lacking. in addition to the risks to biodiversity posed by the proliferation of gm crops, which have a competitive advantage over other non-modified species, the release of these gmos into the environment can have serious consequences for ecosystems, in particular compromising conventional and organic crops, it adds that it is not currently possible to ensure in a scientifically credible way the safety of gm products in food and feed. we voted in favour.
mr president, bulgarian and romanian citizens are being expelled from france, spanish and portuguese citizens are being ordered to leave belgium because they are considered an excessive burden on the state, judicial officers in the united kingdom are being given government rewards in vouchers, depending on the number of foreign nationals they manage to expel from their country, and these are just some of the images of the picture we have of the european union today. the dream of free movement is turning into a nightmare, and the reason is very simple. it is austerity, austerity which corrodes everything and which places an unbelievable burden on these citizens when they leave their countries out of necessity because they cannot find work there. but the other side of the mirror is the golden visa, because after all in this european union it is also accepted that there can be free movement and residence in the countries, provided that citizens can pay for it. we can't accept that. this is a very, very unfortunate picture of the state the union has reached.
in writing. - i approve this report because i reject completely any proposal to limit the number of migrants in the european union, as this would be a breach of the principle of free movement of citizens enshrined in the treaty on european union. the mobility of workers contributes to the competitiveness of the economy and to limit it would be a clear setback in the process of european construction. i urge the commission and the member states to ensure the strict application of union law in order to guarantee equal treatment for all citizens of the european union, in this context, i believe that discrimination in respect of fundamental rights such as access to employment, equal working conditions, pay, dismissal conditions, social and tax benefits, etc., must be combated. i call on the national authorities in the member states not to allow any unjustified restrictions or obstacles to the right of workers to free movement, and any form of exploitation of workers.
in writing. - freedom of movement is one of the main achievements of european integration. it is important to preserve and strengthen it. in fact, some 60% of european citizens consider it the most important expression of the european project. all eu citizens are entitled to enjoy this right without exception. the european institutions and the member states have a common duty to protect it. mobile workers are net contributors to the social security systems of the country where they work. we cannot therefore link the right to freedom of movement for work purposes to allegedly illegitimate claims for social assistance and social security and to abuses of these benefits. any abuse must be combated within the framework of anti-fraud legislation, but never in breach of the principle of free movement in practice. i support the approach presented by the commission, with a list of actions aimed at helping national and local authorities to effectively apply the rules on free movement and prevent and combat abuses. it is important to denounce and condemn populist speeches without factual basis, which are intended to influence public opinion negatively. the fact is that so far the ec has never received evidence from any member state confirming the existence of a situation of systematic abuse of their social security systems.
in writing. − the fundamental right to free movement within the european union is one of the basic principles of the european integration process and one of the most important factors in its attractiveness. every citizen of a member state not only expects to be able to move freely within the union but also expects that his movement will be safe and protected by the states to which he travels. but free movement also implies the possibility of living and working in other states, and is much more than a simple facilitated right of visit. that said, it is not unreasonable for some member states to fear an excessive influx of immigrants into their countries and for this influx to put their social balance and the viability of their social support systems under stress or even into crisis and for them to seek, in the event of a potential conflict, to give priority to their own nationals. however, in normal circumstances, free movement within the union must prevail and this can have beneficial consequences for all the countries that are part of it, provided that this right is not exercised in an abusive manner and for illicit or illegitimate purposes that are contrary to the reason why it was created.
in writing. − the right to free movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu. but the movement of capital and goods on the one hand and of people on the other has always been governed by different rules and criteria. in the name of defending the same interests: those of capital, not those of the people. this resolution defends freedom of movement and strongly opposes calls for changes and restrictions on the free movement of citizens. fair and necessary criticism. we have always defended the principle of free movement of persons within the european area. our reasons are, however, quite different from some of those put forward in this resolution. the resolution says that the mobility of workers contributes to the competitiveness of the european economy - a good summary of a vision that looks at mobility (which forgets that today is, in the overwhelming majority of cases, a forced mobility, determined by the absence of prospects of work and a decent life in the country of origin) and that plans for it and allows it, to the exact extent, and only to the exact extent, that it serves the interests of capital. the resolution also contains positive aspects, such as the defence of equal treatment and non-discrimination for workers hosted by a member state.
in writing. − the right to free movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as a cornerstone of european integration directly linked to eu citizenship. free movement is a core element of the eu's values, giving its citizens the choice of where they want to live and work and creating conditions for mobility and development in the labour market, education and other areas. nothing should therefore be done to alter these fundamental rights. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the member states to comply with the treaty provisions on eu legislation on free movement and to ensure respect for the principle of equality and the fundamental right to freedom of movement in all member states, and also calling on the commission and the member states to ensure the strict application of union legislation in order to ensure equal treatment of all eu workers and that they are not discriminated against in terms of access to employment, working conditions, remuneration, dismissal and social and tax benefits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint document in which the european parliament calls on the member states to comply with the treaty provisions on free movement and to ensure respect for the principle of equality and the fundamental right to freedom of movement and which challenges the position taken by some european leaders in calling for changes and restrictions to the freedom of movement of citizens.
in writing. - this resolution defends freedom of movement and recognises the benefits it brings and strongly challenges the position taken by some european leaders in calling for changes and restrictions to the freedom of movement of citizens. however, the idea that the mobility of workers contributes to the competitiveness of the european economy is a hypothesis that masks the real causes of the movement of workers, such as the high levels of unemployment and the poor living conditions that a large proportion of eu workers face today. the document expresses the importance of the free movement of mobile workers for the development of the host country, especially in the areas of health care, agriculture and construction, areas where portugal has very high levels of emigration. the resolution also defends equal treatment between workers hosted by a member state and national workers with regard to contributions to the social protection system of the host member state, adopting the principle of equal treatment or non-discrimination between all citizens, assigning the same rights and obligations as nationals of the host country, correctly stating that all member states are free to decide on these principles and conditions.
mr president, we know that malta sells its citizenship to anyone who invests more than one million euros in the country. but i also wanted to say here that in 2013, the portuguese state granted 471 residence visas to third-country nationals, provided they invest enough in real estate or other forms of investment that is, they are the so-called golden visas. meanwhile, poor migrants trying to get into europe drown at the gates of lampedusa. meanwhile, immigrants who have worked in europe for a long time take years to obtain residence visas. meanwhile, citizens of afghanistan seeking political asylum in belgium are being deported. we cannot accept that citizenship or residence permits become a commodity.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by expressing concern at the implications of the sale of european citizenship through a system recently created and made available by several member states of the european union. i recognise that residence and citizenship issues are a matter for member states; however, european identity and space are a concern for the union as a whole. i think it is important to stress that issues of the sale of citizenship have transnational implications and therefore concern all member states. i call on the member states to exercise caution in exercising their powers in this area, taking into account possible collateral effects which imply risks to the security of eu member states and may facilitate the commission of tax, financial or other illegal crimes. i would also remind you that european citizenship must not be turned into a commercial commodity.
in writing. - citizenship should not be granted lightly, let alone to those who do not prove themselves worthy of it. it's a circumstance we don't choose but it defines us and accompanies us, except in exceptional cases, throughout our lives. the idea has been wrongly conveyed that all programmes aimed at attracting foreign investment to member states of the union are motivated by a less scrupulous purpose and that they would allow the sale of the nationality of their respective countries to those who have the means to acquire it even to criminals. this assessment is not accurate and, instead of highlighting the good examples of balancing requirements and rights by the member states, it amalgamates the programmes, creating the same suspicion for all of them, which, in addition to undermining the attractiveness of those operating legitimately, will inevitably have negative consequences for the european economy as a whole. investment schemes which do not contend with schengen, which strictly respect european and national legislation and which do not discriminate positively against beneficiaries of the scheme in the event that they wish to obtain nationality should be welcomed and not demonized, especially in a europe where the economy is sluggish and jobs are lost almost every day.
in writing. - this resolution rightly criticises the granting of citizenship in some member states, the main criterion being the financial capacity of applicants. they grant citizenship rights to holders of capital to attract the development of economic activities (some of which, by their nature, may be involved in or give rise to fraud, tax evasion and avoidance and money laundering). this is a form of granting rights in keeping with the eu's emigration policy and its discriminatory, elitist and repressive character of workers with lower qualifications and training and without means, favouring all those who can somehow give profits to big capital. and that is not and could not be recognised in this resolution, hence a certain hypocrisy in the criticisms made here. we voted in favour of the first paragraph of this resolution because we too condemn these practices and the legislation which allows them. but there are aspects of this resolution that we clearly distance ourselves from. the concept of european citizenship is a very controversial and artificial concept, with real objectives that contradict many of the stated objectives, always wrapped in the cellophane of supposed rights, which are faced in practice every day.
in writing. - despite the vote in favour, i would point out that the maltese case has nothing whatsoever to do with the portuguese case. it is a definitive sale of nationality, contrary to all the principles of solidarity between states, which should be a disgrace to europe. in portugal, there is a common investment-raising process with most other countries, granting a temporary residence visa for a period of one year, renewable for two further periods of two years each, in return for investment in companies, job creation or purchase of real estate worth more than eur 500 000, all preceded by the necessary european consultation process and verification of the non-conviction of offenses with a sentence of more than one year for applicants.
in writing. − considering that there are concerns on the part of some member states about the creation of conditions for the acquisition of european citizenship by third-country nationals in circumstances which favour the wealthiest and without regard to the normal criteria for the granting of citizenship, the european parliament voted this resolution which states that european citizenship is one of the eu's greatest achievements and that, according to the eu treaties, residence and citizenship issues are the exclusive competence of the member states. however, parliament expressed concern that this form of citizenship, as in the case of malta, and any other national system which might involve the definitive sale, direct or indirect, of european citizenship, would undermine the very idea of european citizenship. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document, in which the european parliament expresses its concern that a form of citizenship may involve the definitive sale, direct or indirect, of european citizenship and undermine the very idea of european citizenship, arguing that member states must recognise and fulfil their responsibilities in safeguarding the values and objectives of the union.
in writing. - this resolution rightly criticises the granting of citizenship in some member states on the basis of the applicant's financial capacity. they grant citizenship rights to holders of capital to attract the development of economic activities which, by their nature, may be involved in or give rise to fraud, tax evasion and avoidance and money laundering. this is a form of granting rights in keeping with the eu's emigration policy and its discriminatory, elitist and repressive character of workers with lower qualifications and training and without means, favouring all those who can somehow give profits to big capital. we voted in favour of the first paragraph of this resolution because we too condemn these laws, although we strongly disagree with the idea of european citizenship, which as we know does not exist and is one of the trojan horses used to persuade people to accept the loss of their sovereignty and the domination of the great powers and big capital in the eu. citizenship and the rights that are (or should be) associated with it are at the core of national identity and sovereignty, have the potential for mobilization, struggle, progress, and this is the character that federalists of various shades seek to get rid of.
in writing. − i approve this report, welcoming the success of the first local elections at national level on 3 november 2013. the turnout and the normal flow of voting in kosovo and the municipalities south of the ibar river, which are majority serb, are commendable, as assessed in the preliminary statement of the european union election observation mission. in any democracy governed by the rule of law, this is a decisive step to be taken. in the case of serbia, these elections are of great importance in the formation of the community of serbian municipalities and are a clear and important step forward in the process of normalisation in the country. i welcome the efforts made by belgrade and pristina to ensure that the elections are held in a peaceful manner and in accordance with democratic norms. i strongly condemn the climate of violence and constant intimidation in the northern municipalities of mitrovica and zvečan. i urge the serbian authorities to deal with these situations in an exemplary manner before the courts. i believe that the conclusions of the dialogue between belgrade and pristina should be communicated in a more transparent manner, and that the parliaments and civil society concerned should be involved in the process of social and civic reconstruction.
in writing. - there is a particularly relevant obstacle on the serbian path to the european union, which is kosovo. it is necessary to understand to what extent the serbs have already given in on this issue and how it is rooted in deep feelings that relate to their own identity as a national state. the serbian option for europe and the sacrifices it has collectively made in this respect must be welcomed and supported. as i have said before, its accession, although in the not yet foreseeable future, would mean a new beginning for the region and a further opportunity to heal the wounds that war and ethnic hatred unfortunately opened up in the process of the dismemberment of yugoslavia. i welcome the european council's decision of 28 june 2013 to open accession negotiations with serbia and i hope that the eu-serbia intergovernmental conference will take place in december 2013 and that it will be an important step on this path of rapprochement, which will be to the benefit of all, in particular the balkan region.
in writing. the resolution, which underpins the european council's granting of candidate country status to serbia, deals with the signing of the first agreement on the principles of standardisation, reached between the prime ministers of serbia and kosovo. the prospect is that serbia will finally accept kosovo's independence, legitimising an unacceptable operation, contrary to international law, and keeping kosovo as a nato and eu protectorate in the heart of the balkans. the vision and interests that are reflected in this resolution are those of the great powers of nato and the eu, which wanted (and provoked) the dismantling of yugoslavia. its objectives are clear in the resolution: to abolish administrative barriers to doing business, to privatize public enterprises and to advance neoliberalism under the rhetoric of reducing the presence of the state in the economy. the process of serbia's accession to the eu is one of many ongoing processes which demonstrate how the sowing of ethnic divisions, the aggression and support for the destruction of yugoslavia were aimed at economic domination of the resulting countries, their natural resources, the exploitation of their workers and the destruction of the immense social achievements of their peoples.
in writing. − the european council of 28 june 2013 decided to open accession negotiations with serbia and to promote the holding of the first intergovernmental conference by january 2014, reaffirming the european perspective of that country in line with the eu's commitments to the entire western balkans region. serbia has been taking important steps towards the normalisation of relations with kosovo, which resulted in the signing of the first agreement on the principles of normalisation of 19 april 2013. it has also made efforts to sufficiently fulfil the political criteria and conditions of the stabilisation and association process. as a rule, the eu accession drive is an important driver in countries interested in joining the eu, and hopefully this is also the motivation of serbia. we will look forward to the development of the negotiations and to serbia's positive developments in the various matters under discussion. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the progress report on serbia in which the european parliament welcomes the commitment shown by the serbian government to the european integration process and calls on serbia to pursue the systemic and socioeconomic reforms that will enable it to assume and effectively implement the obligations of accession. the enlargement process must promote the guarantee of territorial and social cohesion.
in writing. - the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement on 1 september of the current year is a very important step towards serbia's rapprochement with the union. this signature thus prepares serbia for the process of integration in political, legal and economic terms, putting the parties concerned in a position to exchange views and work together. however, i would like to stress that the serbian authorities must rethink the way they deal with kosovar and non-kosovar people crossing through serbia from kosovo, since they claim to have entered serbia illegally because of the non-recognition of kosovo's external borders. stability in the balkan region and accession to the union are undeniably linked to the consolidation of the rule of law in both places. i would also like to congratulate serbia on its cooperation with the international criminal court in relation to war crimes and the investigation and location of mass graves.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in kosovo, which calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the situation in kosovo is not further worsened. the european parliament's majority, like itself, welcomes this first step towards serbia's final acceptance of kosovo's independence, keeping it a nato and eu protectorate in the heart of the balkans. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked, and calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked. the resolution also calls for the abolition of administrative barriers to doing business, the privatisation of public enterprises and the reduction of the state's presence in the economy. the aim of sowing ethnic divisions, of aggression and of supporting the destruction of yugoslavia was to dominate economically the resulting countries, their natural resources, exploit their workers and destroy the immense social achievements of their peoples.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by stressing once again the need for local responsibility and participation in the reconciliation process. i find the nationalist rhetoric on both sides in relation to the integration process reprehensible. i believe that the kosovar authorities must take effective and additional measures to promote and strengthen trust between the serbs of kosovo and the albanians, particularly in the north of the country. at the internal level, there must be an effort to foster dialogue with serbs and other minorities in order to promote their full integration into society. i also call for the application of the constitutional principle that kosovo serbs have the right to access all official services in their own language. to remedy this linguistic problem, i believe it is essential to ensure that access to fully bilingual education is guaranteed from an early age in schools. i also encourage all kosovo serbs and their representatives to play an active role in political construction and social development in the institutions of kosovo and together with the kosovo albanians.
in writing. - i start as i finished in april 2013: the european option for kosovo imposes on its rulers requirements of rigour, transparency and reform that only the future can tell whether they will be adequately met. i hope that they will be and that the region will move towards the peace and stability that its people so much deserve. the efforts made by serbs and kosovars to promote some degree of normality in their relationship should be acknowledged, but it would be unrealistic to say that the future path is risk-free or immune to deterioration. the eu is committed to the development of the kosovo process, and the eu is committed to the implementation of the kosovo declaration of independence.
in writing. - the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo was a very serious event and a dangerous precedent in international law, with unforeseeable consequences for the stability of borders, particularly on the european continent. this independence, which, contrary to the wishes of the majority of the european parliament (which once again makes this clear in this resolution), continues to be unrecognised by many countries and over time it becomes clear that it has not brought economic and social benefits to its people, who continue to live in conditions of great poverty. it was a flagrant violation of the un charter and the helsinki act and an illegal decision in the light of the most basic principles of international law, which predated other violations such as those we have seen in iraq, afghanistan (and pakistan), libya and now syria. it was the imposition of a protectorate created and imposed by the aggression and military occupation of the usa - which installed in the territory one of its largest bases abroad - of nato - which is maintained through kfor - currently seconded by the eu - through the eulex mission. this is an attempt to perpetuate the policy of the done deal. this is unacceptable.
in writing. - it is unanimous that the countries belonging to the western balkans region have a vocation to become members of the eu. in the near future this will be a reality. in this context, we have kosovo, which has had a difficult time since the break-up of the former yugoslavia following the capitulation of the soviet empire. however, the so-called kosovo war, which remains unresolved and is very controversial throughout the international community, has also helped to make peace in this region not yet a reality. i was pleased to see the conclusion of the first agreement on the principles of standardisation, signed on 19 april by the prime ministers of serbia and kosovo, and the agreement on the action plan, and look forward to their full, good faith and timely implementation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution in which the european parliament, among other considerations, stresses the key role of active and independent civil society organisations in strengthening and consolidating democratic political processes.
in writing. - kosovo's independence is recognised by 23 of the 28 eu member states and by 105 of the 193 un member states. this and good neighbourly relations between pristina and belgrade are a sine qua non for stability in the region and for the process of integration into the european union. parliament considered that the other member states should also recognise kosovo's independence in order to fulfil the commitments made to the western balkans. the union's presence in kosovo is synonymous with stability and conciliation, not only through eulex but also through the special representative and the international civil service. with these instruments the union hopes to create the peace necessary for the implementation of two rule of law. i would also like to emphasize the first agreement on the principles of standardization, signed in april last year between pristina and belgrade, and the agreement on the action plan. i believe that the union must now put in place all the necessary mechanisms so that i can help financially and so that kosovo can participate in the union's programmes.
in writing. - we cannot fail to mention once again what reality has shown: the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo was a very serious event and a dangerous precedent in international law, with unforeseeable consequences for the stability of borders, particularly on the european continent. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it was a flagrant violation of the un charter and the helsinki act and an illegal decision in the light of the most basic principles of international law which paved the way for other violations such as those we have seen in iraq, afghanistan (and pakistan), libya and now syria. it was the imposition of a protectorate created and imposed by the aggression and military occupation of the usa - which installed one of its largest bases abroad - by nato - which is maintained through kfor - currently seconded by the eu - through the eulex mission.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the accession negotiations with iceland, which started on 27 july 2010, have established that iceland fulfils the copenhagen criteria required for accession. given that the icelandic government has declared that the accession negotiations are suspended until a national referendum has been held, i am of the opinion that, if the result is in favour of accession, iceland should be integrated into the union. i welcome the prospect of iceland becoming an eu member state, given that it is a country with an effective democratic tradition, strong institutions and a strong civil society.
in writing. - iceland intends to put its potential integration into the union to a referendum. i welcome this decision. the current icelandic government is known to be more reluctant to join the union, especially when compared with the previous government, which should also be aware of the contradictory news about the economic and financial crisis affecting it. the willingness to debate is therefore a welcome sign of openness and also of the maturity of a people. i hope that iceland will join the union and that it will contribute with its rich and long parliamentary tradition to enrich the union and contribute to the quality and transparency of its political activity.
in writing. - in view of iceland's unilateral suspension of the eu accession negotiations process, the majority of the european parliament is moderating its language. caution is advised at this time and what is in the best interests of the eu. the moderation of the language and approach of the eu and the majority of the parliament towards iceland, unlike what it does towards other countries, is linked to the resistance and sovereign assertion of the icelandic people, aware of what are the fundamental tools to defend their interests and aspirations. in the face of the resolution of a year ago, this resolution abdicates its demands that the icelandic authorities implement economic reforms, abolish capital controls, open up the energy, air transport and fisheries industries, and rejects any measure to protect its economy and workers. it should be recalled that iceland is a member and one of the founders of nato, a country with an important geostrategic position due to its proximity to the arctic and the dispute over sovereignty over the untapped natural resources of the region, particularly oil and gas. the media are peddling so-called polls which indicate the support of the irish people for the conclusion of the accession negotiations. we'll see about that.
in writing. − iceland already meets the copenhagen criteria and accession negotiations with iceland were opened on 27 july 2010, following approval by the council. the analytical examination of the eu acquis is almost complete. 27 chapters were opened in the negotiations, 11 of which were provisionally closed. iceland already cooperates closely with the eu as a member of the european economic area (eea), the schengen agreements and the dublin ii regulation and has therefore already adopted a significant part of the acquis. i believe that the process of enlargement of iceland, a country with a long and strong historical tradition of democracy and civic culture, is on the right track.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the accession process of iceland, which stresses that the european union remains fully committed to continuing and successfully concluding the accession negotiations and looks forward to the holding of the referendum on the subject.
in writing. − negotiations with iceland were launched in july 2010 and, according to the copenhagen criteria, 11 of the 27 chapters have been closed. despite the suspension of the accession process by the newly elected icelandic government, which intends to hold a referendum on the issue, the european parliament remains committed to enlargement to a country with a long democratic tradition and already a member of the european economic area.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the commission. the european union is not giving up on iceland. the moderation of the language and approach of the eu and the majority of the ep towards iceland, unlike what it does towards other countries, is linked to the resistance and sovereign assertion of the icelandic people, aware of what are the fundamental tools to defend their interests and aspirations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it should be recalled that iceland is a member and one of the founders of nato, a country with an important geostrategic position due to its proximity to the arctic and the dispute over sovereignty over the untapped natural resources of the region, particularly oil and gas.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning by expressing my deep concern at the recent escalation of violence in south sudan. this situation has serious humanitarian, security, political, economic and social repercussions. the current situation threatens to destabilise the entire east african region, with dire consequences for the entire african continent. i am particularly concerned about the ethnic dimension of the conflict, stressing that the struggle for power through violence or ethnic division is contrary to the establishment of a democratic state based on the rule of law and violates international law and human rights. i condemn the reports of human rights violations and call on all parties to the conflict to immediately put an end to all human rights violations taking place in the territory. i believe it is essential for the eu to intervene to call not only for an end to the conflict but also for humanitarian agencies to be able to access south sudan to provide assistance to the suffering civilian population, thereby avoiding a humanitarian disaster.
in writing. the political and military situation in south sudan makes it clear that the break-up of african countries is not enough to make the political entities resulting from this participation no longer harbour divisive factors within them and that the tribal factor remains the determining factor in this part of the world. i hope that, with particular attention to the deeply painful process which has led to the independence of the country and all the atrocities that have been committed against its people, the main political leaders will put aside their differences and seek solutions of peace and stabilization that will make it possible to put an end to the violence and to ensure the security of the south sudanese people. unfortunately, the news we hear from the country is too frightening and distressing for us to look forward to this future possibility with confidence.
in writing. − the holding of the referendum that led to south sudan's independence was part of the peace agreement signed in 2005, after more than 20 years of civil war, and included commitments such as the immediate formation of an autonomous government in the south, the equal sharing of oil revenues and the definition of the border line. the south's refusal to compensate the north for the loss of oil revenues has reignited the conflict. what motivated this resolution was not, this time, the military conflict between north and south but between factions within the ruling party in the south. the situation is not much different: a struggle for internal political and economic power and for relations with imperialism and its allies. at the heart of the dispute are the estimated 6,700 million barrels of oil in the south's reserves. but the country has much more wealth and potential. it has a variety of minerals (gold, silver, zinc and chromium), important water resources and a rich biodiversity. we call for an immediate ceasefire between the parties, for dialogue with a view to a peaceful political solution and for peace to be restored. we must also reject foreign interventionism of an imperialist character.
in writing. − south sudan is one of the poorest countries in the world, with deficits in all development indicators set out in the millennium development goals. however, politics is not the only obstacle to south sudan's development: good governance, the fight against corruption, the functioning of administrations and the creation of infrastructure are prerequisites for sustainable economic development. we must firmly condemn the latest outbreak of violence in south sudan, the parties involved must lay down their arms and immediately put an end to the acts of violence that cause the loss of life, injury and damage to the civilian population and have led to the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people since the beginning of the crisis in december 2013. only with the continued support of the eu and other developed states will it be possible to free this young country from the serious problems it is facing.
in writing. the escalation of violence in south sudan since the alleged coup attempt on 23 july last year has led to numerous civilian deaths and constant clashes between supporters of the president and supporters of the deposed vice-president. despite the start of talks for a ceasefire on january 7, instability persists, rebels have taken several cities and the authorities have mobilized the army. the united nations has already adopted a resolution for the deployment of reinforcements in the form of 5500 soldiers and 440 police officers to reinforce the already deployed contingent. the international community cannot allow this escalation of violence to become a conflict of ethnic dimensions. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the holding of the referendum that led to south sudan's independence was part of the peace agreement signed in 2005, after more than 20 years of civil war, and included commitments such as the immediate formation of an autonomous government in the south, the equal sharing of oil revenues and the definition of the border line. the south's refusal to compensate the north for the loss of one-third of revenues from no longer relying on oil revenues between the two countries reignited the conflict. what motivated this resolution was not this time the military conflict between north and south but between factions within the ruling party in the south. at the heart of the dispute are the estimated 6,700 million barrels of oil in the south's reserves. the country has great potential. it has several important minerals (gold, silver, zinc and chromium). the south has important water resources (it is crossed by the nile river), has tropical forests and a variety of fauna at the level of countries such as kenya and tanzania. we call for an immediate ceasefire between the parties, for dialogue with a view to a peaceful political solution and for peace to be restored.
mr president, today in europe we have half a million people without homes and we have 124 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. the first was the absence of reference to the right to housing as a fundamental right; the second was the non-inclusion of the moratorium on evictions; and the third is about the disconnect between the increase in homelessness and the austerity policies that have been practiced in the european union. well, the increase in homelessness cannot be indifferent to the loss of jobs, the reduction of wages and pensions, the forced evictions of those who cannot pay their mortgages. and that was not considered, unfortunately. every month we come back to this plenary and every month we vote on real european strategies to combat homelessness. and in that case, what we could have voted for was against the budget treaty, against economic governance. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
in writing. - i shall abstain on this report. this debate is fundamental to the guarantee of basic human rights and respect for human dignity, which it is the responsibility of the member states to promote and guarantee. these principles have been the basis for the important creation of the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. with the current european crisis in many member states, the current levels of poverty and social exclusion will prevent the europe 2020 target from being achieved. the aim was to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in this context, i argue that the right to housing is a basic human need and a precondition for a dignified life that allows for social inclusion. however, i think that we should have gone further in protecting these citizens, and there have even been proposals to that effect which have been rejected by the right wing in this parliament, which leads me to abstain.
in writing. − the plight of the homeless is one of the most extreme forms of poverty and deprivation, constituting a violation of human dignity and human rights. unfortunately, we have seen this phenomenon worsen in almost all member states, although the countries most affected by the economic and financial crisis have been the most affected, being forced to make drastic cuts in social spending to the detriment of social cohesion. access to decent and affordable housing is a fundamental right that can be seen as a precondition both for the exercise of other fundamental rights and for a human life in full dignity. a multi-faceted policy response is needed, with reinforced and more ambitious action, which is primarily the responsibility of the member states, but which can and should be complemented by a european strategy, supported by the employment and social innovation programme (easi). i remind member states of the importance of taking their responsibilities to deal with the phenomenon of homelessness and of being able to use various european instruments, such as the fund for european aid to the most deprived or the european social fund, in order to improve the situation of homeless people and create a pathway to social inclusion and integration into the labour market.
in writing. − an eu strategy for the homeless must be in line with the treaty, which establishes the essential role and wide discretion of national, regional and local authorities to provide, commission and organise services of general economic interest in a way that meets as much as possible the needs of users. i believe that austerity measures should under no circumstances deprive citizens of access to basic social and health services and that people in this situation should always be provided with the necessary care. i believe that the development of an ambitious and integrated eu strategy, underpinned by national and regional strategies, with the long-term aim of addressing the problem of homelessness in the wider context of social inclusion, could be of the greatest benefit.
in writing. - we welcome the parliament's initiative to put the issue of the homeless on the agenda. but given the significant increase in homelessness in the eu, a european parliament resolution on a strategy for the homeless called for much more... the resolution agreed by parliament's majority does not address the real causes of this increase in homelessness, nor does it propose concrete measures to eradicate poverty, particularly the homeless, once and for all. for some reason this resolution is supported by the main political groups - the right wing, the liberal, the social democrats - who are ultimately responsible for the economic and social situation which is causing the increase in homelessness. we believe that any strategy for the homeless cannot be dissociated from broader policies to combat poverty and unemployment, to promote economic development and to end the destruction of labour rights and the attack on wages. that is also why it is completely contradictory to include the fight against homelessness in the european semester as an instrument for pursuing policies that impose wage cuts, redundancies and, in short, the reality underlying the increase in homelessness.
in writing. − homelessness is one of the most extreme forms of poverty and deprivation, and this phenomenon has worsened in several eu member states. this has been a clear priority in the eu's social inclusion process. thus, eu-wide coordination of policies for the homeless in the framework of the open method of coordination on social protection and social inclusion has, over the last decade, enriched and added value to efforts at national, regional and local level, and this work needs to be leveraged in a more strategic approach. the ambitious targets of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to lift at least 20 million people out of situations of risk of poverty and exclusion by 2020, give new impetus to the fight against all forms of poverty and social exclusion, including the exclusion of the homeless.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the commission to develop an eu homelessness strategy without further delay, in line with the guidelines set out in parliament's resolution of 14 september 2011 on an eu homelessness strategy and in the proposals of other eu institutions and bodies. i would stress that i voted to include in the document a call on the member states to put an immediate end to the criminalisation of homeless people and to change the discriminatory practices used to prevent these people from accessing social services and shelter. i voted against decriminalization and this proposal won.
in writing. − the phenomenon of homelessness is a violation of human dignity and human rights, since housing is a basic need and a precondition for a life of dignity and social inclusion. in this regard, i believe that it is essential that the european institutions take a more active stance in tackling this social problem and that the commission should develop a strategy for the homeless without further delay, in line with the guidelines set out in parliament's resolution of 14 september 2011 on an eu strategy for the homeless and in the proposals of other eu institutions and bodies.
in writing. - we welcome the parliament's initiative to put the issue of homelessness on the agenda. however, given the increase in homelessness, a european parliament resolution on a serious strategy for the homeless would require much more structural measures. the resolution agreed by parliament's majority does not address the real causes of this increase in homelessness, nor does it propose concrete measures to eradicate poverty, particularly the homeless, once and for all. we believe that any strategy for the homeless cannot be dissociated from broader policies to combat poverty and unemployment, to promote economic development and to end the destruction of rights and working conditions and wage levels. that is also why it is completely contradictory to include the fight against the existence of homeless people in the european semester exactly the policies that impose wage cuts and layoffs. we will not be used to whitewash the eu's social regression policies.
the author. - mr president, we have already described the events which marked the recent elections in bangladesh and the spiral of confrontation and violence which has led to the death of several people and the arrest of several political leaders. we thought it was important that there was an independent commission of inquiry that could find out what happened, but also that the prisoners were released. but this situation has come from behind. in fact, 2013 was marked by a brutal crackdown on strikes and demonstrations. bangladesh is a country where working conditions are miserable, where exploitation is unlimited, and i think you all remember that we discussed a resolution here about the collapse of a textile and clothing factory, which, incidentally, led to the death of more than 1 000 people. we also think that the member states must have the courage to exclude from their public procurement contracts companies which violate human rights in bangladesh.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination against women in the field of employment, and has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the field of employment. in russia, it has been made illegal to hold any public demonstration or advocacy for the lgbt cause, further opening the field for the far right to continue the gruesome hunt for homosexuals. in the spanish state, the far right also hunts homosexuals to humiliate and torture them, while sadistically recording the events and posting them on social networks. in portugal, the parliamentary right is currently organising a referendum on the right to coercion. lgbt families can only be if the straight majority wants them to be. to the point the world has come! violence, prejudice and hatred in the name of ignorance and indifference. 238 transgender people were murdered in 2013. prison time for homosexual acts. refusal of medical treatment. same-sex marriage, not a chance. coercion, not a chance. adoption is impossible. it refers to everything, says the right. it is absolutely essential to reject medieval prejudice and obscurantism and to recognize the simple idea that we are all equal. the idea that anyone can decide about other people's families is unacceptable. why does the happiness of lgbt families bother others? in portugal, as in europe and the rest of the world, lgbt phobia must be rejected. there's no double rights, but there's no half rights either. nothing more or less. equal rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the recent criminalization of lgbti people in nigeria, uganda, india and also in russia, with severe prison sentences foreseen, constitute very serious threats to basic human rights such as the right to life, liberty, privacy, freedom of expression and personal development. this is an unjust ostracism of the lgbti minority and all their supporters, people who are already severely discriminated against in those countries and elsewhere on various levels, making the fight against hiv/aids even more difficult. the european union and its member states should use all possible channels, including bilateral and multilateral fora, to strongly condemn the adoption of these measures and make it clear that bilateral relations with these countries will have to be reviewed and will be affected. i would also like to mention the frustration i feel when i see laws like these being passed in states party to the cotonou agreement, our privileged partners, leading me to question the usefulness of these advanced relations, particularly with regard to human rights. i therefore ask the commission to initiate the process of reviewing the agreement, taking into account the demands of the european parliament.
it is always a good idea to legislate for the safety and health of workers, in this case investing in the prevention of work-related accidents with dangerous mixtures and chemicals. the five directives in question set out minimum requirements for member states to promote improvement, especially in the working environment, by ensuring a better level of protection of the health and safety of workers. the directive under discussion maintains the level of protection of workers, that level of protection which already exists. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' health and safety at work, and to extend it to cover the protection of workers' health and safety at work. all of this we agree with, all of this is right and desirable. unfortunately, when we look at reality, it's quite different from law or theory. it is well known that accidents occur in direct relation to precarious employment, increased working hours, intensified work patterns, obstacles to the organisation of workers at the workplace and a lack of investment in prevention training. today, workers are forced to work in any conditions and the health and safety conditions at work have suffered from the civilizational regression in the level of labour rights. prevention, proper supervision, public investment, combating the precariousness of employment associated with the number of accidents and the absence of health and hygiene conditions at work, and the criminalisation of accidents at work are urgent steps. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that workers are compensated for their injuries. it is well known that all these factors have developed negatively in several countries in recent years, and especially in those countries where the criminal programmes of the european union and the imf are being implemented. these are the insoluble contradictions of the european union.
in this europe which proclaims austerity as the only remedy for the crisis, look at the harmful effects of this recipe in portugal, particularly on health. for those who have to go to the emergency room, austerity means an inhumane waiting time of four to twenty hours. government cuts have led to the reduction of professionals and the reduction has led to the waiting lines. in hospitals, austerity means surgery delayed for lack of surgical equipment, chaos installed. we're short of poles, space, professionals and, of course, we're short of response and the wait is growing. in health care facilities, austerity means cutting back on responses, driving more people to the er, waiting, and increasing waiting. in line 24 the number of professionals is reduced but more and more calls are required to be answered with profit in mind, to the detriment of the quality, attention and safety of the service. the government is inducing a coma in the national health service, while creating great opportunities for the private sector. but it's all going so well, isn't it? austerity is a public health issue and so is this government and we've been expecting more than we can handle.
two weeks ago the portuguese government launched one of the most serious attacks on science, research, freedom of thought and creativity in portugal. in a contest rife with irregularities and lack of transparency, it rejected five thousand applications for doctoral and post-doctoral fellowships, also funded by the european union. he cut his scholarship allocation by 40% from the previous year. thousands of researchers are now without a livelihood and dozens of research centres in portugal are facing enormous operational problems. there is no development of a country without the critical mass of that country. the portuguese government's paradigm for science is the same as the european union's in the horizon 2020 programme: to destroy all research that it does not consider to be in the interest of the market and large industry. but the scientific researchers in portugal are fighting hard, they have already gotten small setbacks from the portuguese government and they are the real defenders of science, democracy and freedom.
madam president, this report has limits in its ambition, that is to say, this panel has limits in its ambition and the limits of subsidiarity. we cannot harmonize everything, let alone justice, given all the national history and cultural baggage that is associated with justice. but fairness is a factor in economic competitiveness and therefore the comparability of indicators by objective criteria is absolutely essential. the dematerialization of processes through the use of information and knowledge technologies is absolutely important. member states harmonize their practice by setting a good example: everyone can learn from everyone else.
smart grids started well but are slowing down. they are a good tool for the efficient use of electricity. they not only contribute to the integration of renewables but also promote the electrification of road transport, giving the consumer the ability to adapt his consumption to the peaks of demand and supply, lowering his electricity bill. smart grids offer an opportunity to stimulate innovation and research at the sme level, with enhanced competitiveness and the creation of skilled employment. a stable european policy framework is needed, with ambitious energy efficiency and renewable energy targets for 2030. it is also necessary to remove barriers to investment by allowing the leverage of funds and financial instruments and the adoption of technical standards for interoperability and a regulatory framework of its own. only then will we regain the enthusiasm we had at the beginning.
i would like to welcome this report on the future of small farms and to stress their indispensable role in the rural world, the natural environment in which agriculture develops and without which its sustainability is impossible. we cannot live on the backs of large farms alone, and it is therefore imperative that there be a strong orientation for the success of small farms in their organization, in the local markets, so that they can strengthen their essential role. but today, in the rural world, you can no longer survive by just boosting agriculture. it is also necessary to make it more attractive for people to visit, invest, work and live in. it is therefore pointless that, alongside the policy of giving an essential stimulus to agricultural activity, there should not also be public policies geared to the population in the areas of health, education and culture, thus strengthening the quality of life which is, in the end, what determines the animation, the dynamics and the formation of the identity of any territory.
madam president, it's ironic but not surprising. after a reform of the cap which deals yet another blow to small and mediumsized farming and family farming, and which is now leading to a deterioration of their viability, this parliament is now discussing and, as might have been expected, passing a resolution on the future of small farms, which have been disappearing at the astonishing rate of one per minute for the last two decades. we are faced with a roll of kindly statements, of pious intentions, perhaps for voters to see on the eve of elections, which are little more than useless in the context of the reform that you approved here a few months ago. we therefore tabled an alternative resolution, one which gives small farms not the decorative role they are intended to play but a strategic value for the future. a resolution with substantive proposals, such as instruments for regulating production and the market, such as quotas and maximum intermediation margins to ensure fair prices for production, greater fairness in the distribution of cap funds or public agricultural insurance for disaster situations, among many others.
in writing. i welcome the international year of family farming, but we cannot just stay for the celebrations. it is necessary to define concrete measures to promote small and family farming, because of its importance as a supplement to income, especially in the current context of unemployment, and because of its role in stimulating local markets, self-sufficiency and quality production. the new cap includes measures which favour this type of agriculture, the implementation of which is now the responsibility of the member states, and i urge them to give it concrete expression, especially in their rural development programmes in terms of investment aid.
mr president, the point of order is this: they have changed the seats of the members, they have not informed the members of the change of seats. i have a person sitting where i should be voting. i did not vote at the beginning because i was not able to sit down and so in future it would be good if you at least informed members when they are being moved. i'd like to know where i'm sitting right now.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the kimberley process (pk) is an important and innovative instrument for ending the trade in war diamonds - rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance conflicts against legitimate governments. the european union is actively involved in this process and intends to play a positive role in making it work even more effectively. i would also like to draw attention to the involvement of civil society and industry, which is a first step towards making the process inclusive, cooperative and effective. the kimberley trial has been a success. about 15% of the world's annual production of rough diamonds belonged to the war diamond category. since then, the proportion has decreased to less than 1% of the rough diamond sector, partly thanks to the negotiations and the implementation of the pc. all countries wishing to join and agree to respect and apply the rules effectively should be welcomed. i therefore welcome the creative solution that the commission has found to enable greenland to participate in the eu certification system by associating it as a country and an overseas territory.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the matter.
in writing. - the proposal to amend regulation 2368/2002 aims to allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process, a certification scheme for rough diamonds. for the purposes of the certification scheme, greenland would be considered eu territory for the purposes of the kimberley process certification scheme and would be prohibited from accepting imports or exports of rough diamonds from or outside the eu territory without a valid certificate. i welcome this inclusion, which is a further step towards bringing that country closer to the union and means that it will be included in a certification system which is considered appropriate.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to include greenland in the application of the kimberley process certification system. the objective is to enable greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification scheme (kpcs) for international trade in rough diamonds through its cooperation with the european union. the scheme provided for in the proposal allows for the import and export of rough diamonds between greenland and the european union, as well as between greenland and other participants in the certification scheme, provided that all imports and exports of rough diamonds are verified and, as regards exports, certified by the union authorities. the kimberley process (pk) is a joint initiative of governments, industry and civil society to end the trade in war diamonds - rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance conflicts against legitimate governments. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's position.
in writing. - council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 on the application of the kimberley process certification system to international trade in rough diamonds establishes a community system for the certification and control of imports and exports of rough diamonds. greenland is not part of the eu territory but is included in the list of overseas countries and territories. the council decision lays down the rules and procedures enabling greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme for international trade in rough diamonds through its cooperation with the eu. this association would strengthen economic relations between the eu and greenland in the diamond sector and, it is also said, contribute to greenland's economic development. consequently, greenland will be subject to compliance with the provisions of the kimberley process. regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 should therefore be amended to allow for the entry into force of the council decision and in particular to ensure the inclusion of greenland in the certification scheme. since the proposal originated in the member state concerned (denmark) and is the result of its sovereign choice, we do not object.
in writing. - the kimberley process (pk) is a joint initiative of governments, industry and civil society to end the trade in war diamonds - rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance conflicts against legitimate governments. this proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 with a view to including greenland in the application of the kimberley process certification scheme is closely linked to the proposal for a council decision laying down the rules and procedures for greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification scheme. these proposals, taken together, aim to enable greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (kpcs) for international trade in rough diamonds through its cooperation with the european union. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification system for international trade in rough diamonds through its cooperation with the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal in so far as it seeks to allow the import and export of rough diamonds between greenland and the european union and between greenland and other participants in the certification system, provided that all imports and exports of rough diamonds are verified and, as regards exports, certified by the union authorities in accordance with the rules set out in the regulation on the application of the kimberley process certification system to international trade in rough diamonds.
in writing. - the kimberley process certification scheme is an initiative that emerged within the united nations in 2003 and brings together voluntarily governments, industry and civil society, with the aim of ending the trade in so-called blood diamonds from conflict and used to finance them. this kimberley process has 54 members, representing 81 countries, who undertake to import and export diamonds between the participating countries by issuing a certificate which should accompany the transactions. greenland has used its status as an overseas territory of the union to participate in the kimberley process, as only countries can issue the certificate. i am voting in favour of this report, which will provide another source of wealth for the territory and the people of greenland.
in writing. - i approve this proposal for a council decision laying down the rules and procedures enabling greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme and closely linked to the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 with a view to including greenland in the application of the kimberley process certification scheme. i believe that these proposals are intended to allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (spck) for rough diamonds as part of its cooperation with the european union. the scheme provided for in the proposal would allow the import and export of rough diamonds between greenland and the european union, as well as between greenland and other participants in the certification scheme, provided that all imports and exports of rough diamonds are verified and, as regards exports, certified by the union authorities in accordance with the rules set out in council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 on the application of the kimberley process certification scheme to international trade in rough diamonds.
in writing. - acceptance of greenland's participation in the implementation of the union system for the certification and control of imports and exports of rough diamonds for the purpose of implementing the kimberley process certification system
in writing. - the proposal lays down the procedures for the presentation of rough diamonds for verification by the union, extends the special rules for the transit of diamonds to greenland, allows greenland to participate in the commission for the implementation of the regulation and allows the country's representation in the kimberley process and its cooperation with the member states of the union in this respect. i believe that everyone benefits from this participation, in particular consumers and the market.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the uk does not become a party to the agreement. the european union is an active participant in this process and intends to play a positive role in making it work even more effectively. the kimberley trial has been a success. about 15% of the world's annual rough diamond production, which was worth $10 billion in the mid- to late 1990s, was in the war diamond category. since then, this proportion has decreased to less than 1% of the rough diamond sector, which currently stands at usd 13 billion (eur 9,5 billion), partly thanks to the negotiation and implementation of the pc. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's position.
in writing. - the council decision lays down the general rules and conditions for greenland's participation in the system of certification and control of imports and exports of rough diamonds as laid down in regulation (ec) no 2368/2002. to this end, it lays down the rules and procedures governing the application of the kimberley process certification scheme to rough diamonds imported into or exported from the territory of greenland, either to the eu or to other participants in the certification scheme. greenland should therefore ensure the transposition and implementation of regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 for the legislative provisions applicable to it as regards the conditions and formalities for the import and export of rough diamonds, their transit through the eu from or to a non-eu participant, the participation of the eu, including greenland, in the kimberley process certification system, the due diligence, anti-fraud and information exchange obligations, and ensure compliance with those provisions. since the proposal originated in the member state concerned (denmark) and is the result of its sovereign choice, we do not object.
in writing. - this proposal for a council decision laying down the rules and procedures enabling greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (com (2013) 0429), is closely linked to the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 with a view to including greenland in the application of the kimberley process certification scheme. together, these proposals aim to enable greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (spck) for rough diamonds, as part of its cooperation with the european union.
in writing. - this proposal for a council decision, which lays down the rules and procedures enabling greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification system, is closely linked to the proposal for a regulation amending the regulation with a view to including greenland in the application of the kimberley process certification system. together, these proposals aim to enable greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (spck) for rough diamonds, as part of its cooperation with the european union. the scheme provided for in the proposal will allow the import and export of rough diamonds between greenland and the european union, as well as between greenland and other participants in the certification scheme, provided that all imports and exports are certified by the union authorities. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the inclusion of greenland in the kimberley process, which concerns trade in rough diamonds not originating from conflicts and human rights abuses, and consequently in the certification system, requires the amendment of regulation (ec) no 2368/2002, as proposed by the council decision. greenland's territory, rich in natural resources, much of which is still untapped, has ensured the fair redistribution of the revenues from this trade by creating a public fund for infrastructure. i believe that this trial can and should be taken as an example in the trade of other minerals that provoke conflict and attacks on human dignity
in writing. - i welcome this report, noting that despite the efforts made by the european central bank, the member states, their national public authorities and the various market participants during the trading months, the latest migration statistics show that the overall migration rate in the euro area to sepa credit transfers has only increased from 40% in june 2013 to around 64% in november 2013, while the overall migration rate to sepa direct debits has only reached 26%. while national data show considerable progress in several member states, a significant group of member states lag considerably behind projected migration rates. it is therefore very unlikely that all market participants will be in compliance with sepa by 1 february 2014. i would stress my concern as a citizen, given that in the absence of a full migration to sepa credit transfers and sepa direct debits, delays in these payments cannot therefore be excluded. all payment service users, in particular smes and consumers, could be affected.
in writing. - the objective of regulation (eu) no 260/2012 is to establish harmonised systems for credit transfers and direct debits in euro in the european union, and is an important element in the realisation of a single euro payments area (sepa). with the approval of sepa, there will no longer be any distinction between cross-border and national payments in euro, which is a great benefit for businesses and individuals. taking into account that the deadline of 1 february 2014 previously set for the migration and harmonisation of these payment services has proven to be too tight, this deadline is extended by another six months, which will be beneficial for businesses and individuals. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the regulation aims to establish harmonised systems for credit transfers and direct debits in euro at union level, and is thus an important basic element for the creation of a single area for payments in euro (sepa). this legislation is far-reaching and affects payment service users and, in particular, consumers and smes. in this legislative resolution, parliament intends to approve the commission's proposal to extend the deadline for the migration and harmonisation of these payment services by banks and other payment service providers by a further six months, compared to the previously set deadline of 1 february 2014, which proved to be too tight. once all sepa rules have been complied with, there should be no distinction between cross-border and national payments in euro. i consider this a great benefit for businesses and individuals, and i think it is good that this migration is carried out in a balanced and correct way, and i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. - this regulation constitutes a basic element for the implementation of a single euro payments area (sepa), in which there should be no distinction between cross-border and national payments in euro. the main objective of this regulation is to migrate from national credit transfer and direct debit systems to harmonised sepa credit transfer and sepa direct debit systems, in particular by providing eu citizens with a single international bank account number (iban) which can be used for all sepa credit transfer and direct debit transactions denominated in euro.
in writing. - the regulation in question aims to establish harmonised systems for credit transfers and direct debits in euro at union level and is thus an important basic element for the creation of a single area for payments in euro (sepa). this legislation is far-reaching and affects payment service users and, in particular, consumers and smes. in this legislative resolution, parliament intends to approve the commission's proposal to extend the deadline for the migration and harmonisation of these payment services by banks and other payment service providers by a further six months, compared to the previously set deadline of 1 february 2014, which proved to be too tight. once all sepa rules have been complied with, there should be no distinction between cross-border and national payments in euro. i consider this a great benefit for businesses and individuals, and i think it is good that this migration is carried out in a balanced and correct way, and i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. - the report essentially seeks to extend the deadline for migration to sepa by a single period of six months, with the proposal for a regulation entering into force on 31 january with retroactive effect. one of the arguments for the implementation of the harmonisation of electronic payment systems in the euro area, with a view to achieving an integrated market for payment services, is the benefits for consumers, who will thus be able to make payments in euro in europe in a simpler, cheaper and safer way, as if they were doing it in their own country. although we have reservations about the justification for the sepa and its objectives, namely the deepening of the eu single market, consumers and smes must be protected and cannot be harmed by the fact that companies have not been able or have not been willing to switch to this new electronic payment system.
in writing. - this regulation on migration to credit transfers and direct debits at union level is part of a set of regulations which aims to establish a single area for payments in euro (hereinafter referred to as sepa), in which there should be no distinction between cross-border payments and national payments in euro. the main objective of this regulation is to migrate from national credit transfer and direct debit systems to harmonised sepa credit transfer and sepa direct debit systems, in particular by providing eu citizens with a single international bank account number (iban) which can be used for all sepa credit transfer and direct debit transactions denominated in euro. i am in favour of this initiative and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - transfer migration is an important basic element for the realisation of a single euro payments area (hereinafter referred to as sepa), in which there should be no distinction between cross-border and national payments in euro. i support this report, which safeguards the migration of data to sepa for all those who are not yet ready for it, by allowing payment service providers, for a limited period, to continue to process payment transactions through their old systems, in parallel with their sepa credit transfer and sepa direct debit systems.
in writing. - this report is based on the european commission's objective of harmonising electronic payment systems in the euro area (sepa). one of the reasons for its creation is the potential benefits for consumers, who will be able to make euro payments in the eu in a simpler, cheaper and safer way. by the deadline for migration to sepa instruments (1 february 2014), all national electronic payment systems for credit transfers and debit cards would have to be abolished and replaced by those operating at eu level. it turns out that only 64% of companies use the new system for credit transfers and 26% for direct debits. therefore, it is very unlikely that all players will meet the deadline for sepa migration. the report calls for the deadline for migration to sepa to be extended by a single period of six months, with the proposal for a regulation entering into force on 31 january with retroactive effect. although we have strong reservations about the sepa transition being based on the eu single market, the fact is that consumers and smes must be protected and cannot be harmed.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by drawing attention to the fact that the agreement between the institutions of the european union on the statements defining the relationship between the components of a directive and the corresponding parts of the national transposition instruments (correspondence frameworks) entered into force on 1 november 2011 and that it has therefore not been possible to assess its application in this annual report. i therefore expect the commission to make a first review of these statements by 1 november, as provided for in the annual report. i also express my concern at the continuing increase in infringements for late transposition by member states, given that at the end of 2011 there were 763 cases opened for late transposition, which represented an increase of 60% compared to the previous year. i note only that at the end of 2011 the commission brought before the court of justice the first infringement procedure for delay in transposition, requesting the application of a financial penalty under article 260 (3) tfeu.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this legislative resolution and reiterate its importance in improving the safety of fishing vessels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the cape town agreement, as it will allow the convention on the safety of fishing vessels to be applied, so as to ensure a common safety regime for all fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more. although these vessels represent only a small part of the fishing fleet, the implementation of this convention will also lay the foundations for responding to the safety concerns of the shorter-hulled fishing vessels, which represent the majority of fishing vessels.
in writing. the rapporteur welcomes the agreement reached in cape town as it has contributed to enhancing the safety of fishing vessels and recommends that the european parliament give its consent to the draft council decision authorising member states to sign, ratify or accede to this agreement as appropriate. better means of rescue, radio communications, fire protection, machinery and electrical installations can save lives. i hope that fishing vessels and their crews will see these elements improved and can operate with increased safety.
in writing. - the cape town agreement of 2012 on the implementation of the provisions of the protocol of 1993 relating to the international convention on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of 1977 was adopted in october 2012 at a diplomatic conference convened by the international maritime organisation (imo). the agreement should allow the application of the torremolinos international convention for the safety of fishing vessels, signed in 1977, and the 1993 protocol thereto, which have never entered into force because of the insufficient number of states which have ratified the convention and the protocol thereto. the torremolinos convention and the protocol of 1993 thereto lay down safety standards relating, inter alia, to life-saving equipment, radio communications, fire protection, machinery and electrical installations, as well as specific requirements for seagoing fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more. i voted in favour because i agree with the cape town agreement, insofar as it should contribute to the promotion of safety of fishing vessels, and with the authorization for member states to sign, ratify or accede to the agreement as appropriate.
in writing. - the international maritime organisation (imo) estimates that some 24 000 people lose their lives every year in the fishing sector, and the safety of fishing vessels is one of the relevant factors in minimising this scourge. this report welcomes the cape town agreement concerning the implementation of the provisions of the torremolinos international convention on the safety of fishing vessels, adopted in october 2012 at the imo, and should allow for the implementation of the convention on the safety of fishing vessels, which never entered into force due to the insufficient number of states that have ratified the convention and the protocol thereto. this convention lays down safety standards for, inter alia, life-saving equipment, radio communications, fire protection, machinery and electrical installations, and minimum requirements for seagoing fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more. the agreement allows member states to exempt vessels from their flag if they consider it unreasonable or impractical to do so, taking into account the type of vessel, the weather conditions and the absence of any danger to navigation. the inspection and survey regime has also been tightened up and some of the surveys have become compulsory.
in writing. - the cape town agreement of 2012 on the implementation of the provisions of the protocol of 1993 relating to the international convention on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of 1977 was adopted in october 2012 at a diplomatic conference convened by the international maritime organisation (imo). the agreement should allow the application of the torremolinos international convention for the safety of fishing vessels, signed in 1977, and the 1993 protocol thereto, which have never entered into force because of the insufficient number of states which have ratified the convention and the protocol thereto. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the purpose of this report is to approve the draft council decision authorising the member states to sign, ratify or accede to the cape town agreement of 2012 on the implementation of the 1977 torremolinos international convention and its 1993 protocol on safety of maritime fishing vessels. the international maritime organisation (imo) estimates that around 24 000 people die each year in the fishing industry worldwide, which reinforces the importance of the entry into force of the torremolinos protocol, which lays down safety standards for life-saving equipment, radio communications, fire protection, machinery and electrical installations, and other specific requirements for fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the entry into force of the cape town agreement could make a decisive contribution to the safety of fishing vessels of 24 metres or more in length and could serve as a basis for resolving the safety issues of fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length, which constitute the overwhelming majority of the fishing fleet in the european union.
in writing. - the cape town agreement allows the application of the torremolinos international convention for the safety of ships, which lays down safety standards for life-saving equipment, radio communications, fire protection, machinery and electrical installations, and the requirements for seagoing fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more. this agreement amends certain provisions of the torremolinos protocol in order to introduce greater flexibility as regards the timing of the application of the measures. it also introduces a stricter inspection and survey regime, making initial, annual and intermediate surveys compulsory. since the european union is not a party to the convention of the international maritime organisation, it cannot be a party to the cape town agreement. but on the other hand, member states cannot decide autonomously whether to ratify the draft agreement, since it is a matter of exclusive competence of the union (article 3 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union), unless the council authorises it, after approval by parliament, on the basis of a commission proposal. the rapporteur therefore encourages the adoption of this document, which will allow member states to sign, ratify or accede to the agreement.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by drawing attention to the fact that the agreement between the institutions of the european union on the statements defining the relationship between the components of a directive and the corresponding parts of the national transposition instruments (correspondence frameworks) entered into force on 1 november 2011 and that it has therefore not been possible to assess its application in this annual report. i therefore expect the commission to make a first review of these statements by 1 november, as provided for in the annual report. i also express my concern at the continuing increase in infringements for late transposition by member states, given that at the end of 2011 there were 763 cases opened for late transposition, which represented an increase of 60% compared to the previous year. i note only that at the end of 2011 the commission brought before the court of justice the first infringement procedure for delay in transposition, requesting the application of a financial penalty under article 260 (3) tfeu.
in the first place, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the directive.
in writing. - the eu cannot achieve its policy objectives if the member states do not effectively apply eu law, and it is the ec, as guardian of the treaties, which has the power and the duty to supervise its application and to bring infringement proceedings against member states which do not comply. i am glad that the number of infringement cases has decreased over the last few years. unfortunately, the same was not true of late transposition procedures, which increased by 60%. petitions submitted by eu citizens also show that there are frequent and widespread cases of incomplete transposition or misapplication of eu law, with an increase in complaints in this regard, with italy, spain and germany being the most targeted countries in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights. it must become a real political priority. citizens, businesses and organisations need, especially in the context of the current economic situation, a simple, predictable and reliable regulatory framework to foster confidence and economic growth. the eu pilot initiative could be an added value in solving problems, avoiding the initiation of formal infringement proceedings; however, a greater degree of transparency is needed in the whole process.
in writing. - the european union cannot achieve its objectives if the member states do not implement their legislation in a concrete and effective way. member states are responsible for the correct application of the acquis and must transpose directives correctly and in a timely manner. the report analyses key aspects of the application of union law and provides an overview of the main strategic issues currently facing the union. we must not fail to assess critically and in a more systematic and consistent way the fundamental aspects of the application of european law, its necessity, adequacy and effectiveness, its compliance with the principle of subsidiarity and the respect for the exclusive competences of the member states.
- the number of new infringement cases has decreased over the last few years, with the commission opening 2900 such cases in 2009, 2100 in 2010 and 1775 in 2011. there was, however, an increase in late transposition cases during these years (1185 in 2011, 855 in 2010 and 531 in 2009). i note that the four areas with the highest incidence of late transposition cases are the environment (17 per cent), the internal market (15 per cent), transport (15 per cent) and taxation (12 per cent). it should be noted that article 17 teu defines the fundamental role of the commission as guardian of the treaties, with the power and duty to supervise the application of eu law and, in particular, to bring infringement proceedings against member states which fail to fulfil any of their obligations under the treaties. there is a decreasing number of infringement cases (60,4%) closed in 2011 before reaching the court of justice, compared to 88% in 2010. i agree that it is essential to continue to monitor closely the actions of the member states, given that some of the petitions to the european parliament and complaints to the commission concern problems which persist even after the procedure has been closed.
in writing. - this report sets out the rapporteur's views on several recent commission communications on the application of eu law, in particular the 29th annual report on monitoring the application of eu law (2011). the report refers in particular to a study commissioned by topic department c entitled 'tools for ensuring implementation and application of eu law and evaluation of their effectiveness'. the aim of the study is to assess the main aspects of the application of eu law. it also refers to an opinion of the european parliament's legal service which analyses access to information on infringement proceedings at the preliminary stage in the framework of the eu pilot and the annual report on monitoring the application of eu law. we abstained, not because of the specific content of the report, but because of the position we have always taken against the harmonization of justice in the eu.
in writing. - the report calls on the commission to make compliance with european union law a real political priority, to continue to work closely with parliament, which has a duty to ensure that the commission is politically accountable and, as co-legislator, to ensure that it is provided with all relevant information with a view to continually improving its legislative work. i agree with these assumptions and therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the objectives of the union can only be achieved through effective application of union law by the member states. the member states are thus responsible for the proper application of union law and are obliged to transpose directives correctly and within the time limits laid down. the 29th annual report is part of the european commission's task of monitoring the action of the member states and ensuring that union law is respected, which may even involve recourse to the court of justice. this document, which i voted in favour of, analyses the results obtained in the application of union law and refers in particular to a study commissioned by parliament's policy department c, the purpose of which is to assess the essential aspects of the implementation of union law.
in writing. - this report sets out the rapporteur's views on several recent commission communications on the application of eu law, in particular the 29th annual report on monitoring the application of eu law (2011). the report refers in particular to a study commissioned by topic c entitled 'tools for ensuring implementation and application of eu law and evaluation of their effectiveness'. the aim of the study is to assess the main aspects of the application of eu law. it also refers to an opinion of the european parliament's legal service which analyses access to information on infringement proceedings at the preliminary stage in the framework of the eu pilot and the annual report on monitoring the application of eu law. we abstained, not because of the specific content of the report, but because of the position we have always taken against the harmonization of justice in the eu.
in writing. - i approve the present report because, as the court of justice has observed, the scope of the absolute immunity provided for in article 8 must be determined solely on the basis of community law. the court has also recently held that a statement made by a member of parliament outside the european parliament which has given rise to a judicial proceeding in the member state of origin for the crime of slander constitutes an opinion given in the exercise of parliamentary functions covered by immunity only if it corresponds to a subjective assessment which shows a direct and evident link with the exercise of his functions. in this context, i consider that the facts of the case, as evidenced by the summons, the complaint relating to the same facts and the hearing of lara comi, indicate that the statements made by the member not only concern matters of genuine public interest - public procurement and organised crime - but also have a direct and obvious link with the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament. the commission's immediate apology to the injured party, which was later repeated on another national television programme, should also be taken into account.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has the power to adopt decisions which are binding on the member states. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the court held that the commission had failed to fulfil its obligation to state reasons for the decision to which it had been subject, and to state the reasons for the decision to which it had been subject, and to state the reasons for the decision to which it had been subject. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. i am therefore in favour of defending the parliamentary immunity of mrs lara comi.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mep lara comi in a criminal case. the committee on legal affairs considers that the facts of the case, as evidenced by the summons, the complaint relating to the same facts and the hearing of lara comi, indicate that the statements made by the member of parliament not only concern matters of genuine public interest - public procurement and organised crime - but also have a direct and obvious link with the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament, and i therefore agree that the privileges and immunities of lara comi should be upheld. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document, in which the european parliament, after hearing the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, decided to defend the privileges and immunities of lara comi, who considers, among other things, that political debate does not take place only in parliament, but also through the media, from statements to the press to the internet.
in writing. - i approve this report, based on the facts of the case in question, there is no basis to establish the necessary direct and obvious connection. the case does not fall within the scope of the political activities of mr zbigniew ziobro as a member of parliament, as it concerns purely national activities. in fact, zbigniew ziobro's statements were made in response to an interview with the former polish minister of agriculture and referred to events in 2006, when zbigniew ziobro was minister of justice in the government led by jaroslaw kaczyński. these facts therefore precede and are distinct from his activity as a member of the european parliament. the alleged conduct has therefore no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr zbigniew ziobro, nor does it constitute an opinion expressed in the course of the performance of his duties for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. furthermore, the criminal proceedings brought against mr ziobro have no connection with his current position as a member of the european parliament.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has the power to adopt decisions which are binding on the member states. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr zbigniew ziobro, member of the european parliament, in connection with a legal action concerning an alleged offence. the request of the prosecutor concerns a crime which is subject to a criminal action of private initiative under article 212 (1) and (2) of the polish criminal code. the alleged offence has no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr zbigniew ziobro, nor are his views or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i therefore vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr zbigniew ziobro.
in the case of mr ziobro, the european parliament has been asked to waive his parliamentary immunity in connection with a criminal case pending before the warsaw city centre district court. the committee on legal affairs considers that the alleged offence has no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr zbigniew ziobro. considering that the action brought against mr zbigniew ziobro is in no way connected with his function as a member of the european parliament and that parliament has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the criminal action is motivated by the intention to harm the political activity of the member concerned, i voted in favour of this decision to waive the immunity of mr zbigniew ziobro.
in writing. - the prosecutor of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr zbigniew ziobro in connection with a legal action concerning an alleged offence. i voted in favour of this document, in which the european parliament, on the basis of the report adopted in the committee on legal affairs, considered that the alleged offence had no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament, nor did it concern opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that according to eurostat estimates, in 2011 there were about 12 million union citizens residing in a member state other than their state of origin. many more still reside temporarily in another eu member state, for example, for study, work or simply for holidays. all these people may sooner or later have to contact the administrative authorities of the country they are visiting or residing in - tourists with the health system, students with the university administration, workers with the tax authorities and social security, etc. overall, the proposal should be considered as a substantial progress for the benefit of citizens. it eliminates red tape and gives meaning to the principle of mutual trust. the charges borne by citizens are reduced and at the same time a system of mutual assistance is created which will, in principle, make it possible to prevent fraud attempts more effectively. the introduction of multilingual forms in the european union will help to make life easier for citizens and businesses operating across borders, and also to reduce red tape.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it helps to reduce red tape for citizens and businesses who decide to move between eu countries. this measure will reinforce the fundamental principle of free movement by simplifying the authentication procedures for certain public documents such as birth or marriage certificates.
in writing. - according to eurostat data, in 2011 there were around 12 million union citizens residing in another member state. many others are also temporarily residing in another eu member state for study, work or simply for holidays. for all of them, simplifying the acceptance of public documents is a necessity for the removal of bureaucratic obstacles. in addition, the acceptance in the eu of public documents issued by the member states will facilitate the free movement of citizens and enhance the movement of students and professionals. for this reason, and in order to guarantee all the conditions of security and reciprocity, i support the proposal to simplify the acceptance of certain public documents.
in writing. - this commission proposal is of the utmost importance for freedom of movement and the strengthening of european citizenship. indeed, according to eurostat estimates, in 2011 there were around 12 million union citizens residing in a member state other than their home state. many more still reside temporarily in another eu member state - for example, for study, work or simply for holidays. it is necessary to eliminate, or at least reduce, the bureaucratic difficulties and obstacles experienced by these citizens in contacting the administration of the host member state. in addition, such contacts with the administration are further complicated by the fact that it is often necessary to overcome additional obstacles when documents from other member states are presented, for example certified translations or an apostille may be required. these are formalities which, in addition to being very time-consuming, can also become, in some cases, quite onerous, both for citizens and for businesses. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to reduce bureaucracy and simplify. it should be noted that this regulation concerns only formalities and not the recognition of facts or legal relationships originating in other member states.
in writing. - the purpose of this regulation is to reduce crossborder formalities in respect of documents in order to facilitate the free movement of citizens. it does not require a member state to recognise the content of a document from another member state, but states do not require additional formalities for the presentation of the document, for example in the form of a certified translation. the rapporteur considers the commission proposal to apply the regulation only to certain public documents, in particular those relating to civil status, to be insufficient. it therefore proposes that this regulation cover personal identification documents, certificates of education, proof of disability, as well as tax and social security documents. the commission is proposing that simple copies of a document be accepted and, in the case of certified copies, that they be valid in all member states. the commission also proposes the creation of 10 new multilingual eu forms covering what it considers to be the most frequent problematic cases: name, parentage, adoption, divorce, dissolution of a registered partnership, nationality, lack of a criminal record, residence, level of education and disability. we believe that these measures are designed to make life easier and simpler for citizens travelling to a member state other than their own, so we voted in favour.
in writing. - this proposal is fundamental to the promotion of the free movement of union citizens. eurostat reports that in 2011 there were around 12 million union citizens residing in a member state other than their home state. many more still reside temporarily in another eu member state - for example, for study, work or simply for holidays. all these people may sooner or later have to contact the administrative authorities of the country they are visiting or residing in - tourists with the health system, students with the university administration, workers with the tax authorities and social security, etc. for citizens of another member state, this contact is often associated with greater difficulties and more bureaucratic obstacles. the proposal aims to simplify and remove the constraints faced by citizens when residing in a member state other than their own.
in writing. - the importance of the rapkay report on the cross-border acceptance of public documents (in particular notarial and registry certificates) within the eu cannot be overstated. the fundamental pillar of the internal market and european citizenship - the two great achievements of european integration - is freedom of movement throughout the union to work, to set up a business, to study, to reside. but freedom of movement has been constrained, among other obstacles, by the difficulty of enforcing public documents from one member state in the territory of another, by bureaucratic requirements such as official translation or official validation in the state of destination ('apostille'). the elimination of these procedures and their replacement by alternative mechanisms not only makes life easier for individuals and businesses but also contributes to making it more difficult to forge documents and commit fraud. this legislative initiative is therefore a real step forward in european integration.
in writing. - this report deals with the promotion of the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. this commission proposal is of fundamental importance to the citizens of the union. indeed, according to eurostat estimates, in 2011 there were around 12 million union citizens residing in a member state other than their home state. many more still reside temporarily in another eu member state - for example, for study, work or simply for holidays. all these people may sooner or later have to contact the administrative authorities of the country they are visiting or residing in - tourists with the health system, students with the university administration, workers with the tax authorities and social security, etc. the aim of this proposal is to eliminate red tape and to give meaning to the principle of mutual trust. the charges borne by citizens are reduced and at the same time a system of mutual assistance is created which will, in principle, make it possible to prevent fraud attempts more effectively. in agreeing to this measure, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation aims to facilitate the free movement of certain public documents in the european union and thus simplify the lives of citizens and businesses. the aim is to reduce the burden of legalisation requirements and to harmonise the rules with related requirements. i have supported this document because it is in favour of the main idea of the european commission's proposal, but i would like to make it clear that the principle of legal certainty must prevail over its content.
in writing. - the regulation aims to reduce crossborder formalities for documents in order to facilitate the free movement of citizens. it does not require a member state to recognise the content of a document from another member state, but states do not require additional formalities for the presentation of the document, for example in the form of a certified translation. the rapporteur considers the commission proposal to apply the regulation only to certain public documents, in particular those relating to civil status, to be insufficient. it therefore proposes that this regulation cover personal identification documents, certificates of education, proof of disability, as well as tax and social security documents. the commission is proposing that simple copies of a document be accepted and, in the case of certified copies, that they be valid in all member states. the commission also proposes the creation of 10 new multilingual eu forms covering what it considers to be the most frequent problematic cases: name, parentage, adoption, divorce, dissolution of a registered partnership, nationality, lack of a criminal record, residence, level of education and disability. we believe that these measures are designed to make life easier and simpler for citizens travelling to a member state other than their own, so we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the regulation in question aligns existing eu legislation with the ghs, a united nations system which identifies dangerous chemicals and informs users of the associated risks by means of standard phrases and symbols on packaging labels and safety data sheets. following the adoption of this ccc regulation, the need to make technical adaptations to the five ccc regulations, which contain references to union legislation on the classification and labelling of chemicals, has arisen. the alignment of the references and terminology of the five directives with the cre regulation does not invalidate the scope or level of protection provided by these directives, nor do i consider it advisable to start this process at this stage. however, it is obvious that the five directives should be revised as soon as possible in order to provide coherent legislation and an adequate level of health and safety protection when dangerous chemicals and mixtures are present in the work environment.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1772/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures aligns existing eu legislation with the ghs, a united nations system that identifies hazardous chemicals and informs users of the associated risks through standard phrases and symbols on packaging labels and safety data sheets. following the adoption of this cwc regulation, the need arose to make technical adaptations to the five directives containing references to eu legislation on the classification and labelling of chemicals, which is what we are now approving.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1772/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on classification, labelling and packaging (classification, labelling and packaging (crl)) of substances and mixtures aligns existing eu legislation with the ghs, a united nations system that identifies hazardous chemicals and informs users of the associated risks through standard phrases and symbols on packaging labels and safety data sheets. following the adoption of this cem regulation, the need for technical adaptations has arisen in the five directives (92/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/ec, 98/24/ec and 2004/37/ec) which contain references to eu legislation on the classification and labelling of chemicals. it should be noted that the amendments to the five directives proposed by the commission are of a purely technical nature, as are those included in this draft report. i believe that the five directives should be revised as soon as possible in order to provide coherent legislation and an adequate level of health and safety protection when dangerous chemicals and mixtures are present in the work environment.
in writing. - the ghs is a united nations system which identifies hazardous chemicals and informs users of the associated risks by means of standard phrases and symbols on the labels of packaging and safety data sheets. the implementation of the ghs in the european union through the cre regulation will require companies to properly classify, label and package their substances and mixtures before placing them on the market, after a transitional period during which the two systems, the cre regulation and the combination of the directives on substances and preparations, will apply in parallel. the aim is to protect workers, consumers and the environment by labelling and indicating any potentially dangerous effects of chemicals.
in writing. - the classification, labelling and packaging (crl) regulation for substances and mixtures aligns existing eu legislation with the united nations system for identifying hazardous chemicals and informing users of the associated risks by means of standard phrases and symbols on packaging labels and safety data sheets. following the adoption of this ccc regulation, the need arose to make technical adaptations to the five directives containing references to eu legislation on the classification and labelling of chemicals. in this case, the alignment of the references and terminology of the five directives with the cre regulation does not invalidate the scope or level of protection provided by these directives, nor does the rapporteur consider it advisable to start this process at this stage. the amendments to the five directives proposed by the commission are therefore of a purely technical nature, as are those included in this draft report. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1772/2008 of the european parliament and of the council aligns european union legislation with the globally harmonized system for the classification and labelling of chemicals (ghs globally harmonized system). this is a united nations system that identifies hazardous chemicals and informs users of the associated risks, using standard phrases and symbols on labels and safety leaflets. however, it is necessary to align with the classification, labelling and packaging (cre) regulation the references and terminology of the five directives - 92/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/ec, 98/24/ec and 2004/37/ec. it should be stressed that these should be reviewed as soon as possible in order to ensure adequate protection of health and safety at the workplace when hazardous chemicals and mixtures are encountered.
in writing. - this report agrees to the adoption of a legislative framework to better protect the health and promote the safety of workers exposed to chemicals at the workplace. it is aimed at implementing the harmonised system for the classification and labelling of chemicals established by the united nations in the eu and thus adapting community legislation to this system. the aim is to bring directives 2/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/ec, 98/24/ec and 2004/37/ec into line with this classification system. we voted in favour of a higher level of protection for workers.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that collective rights management, when it is properly operated, is the most effective way for licensing rights to benefit rights holders. to preserve this role, reform of collective rights management is urgently needed. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal, which provides a good opportunity for the legislator to address these issues. i believe it is essential to ensure a fair and transparent competitive system in order to avoid pressure to reduce the revenues of rightholders and to create a level playing field. it is therefore necessary to clarify some of the proposed provisions and to suggest additional provisions to reinforce some specific points. in particular, commercial operators who are authorised by contractual provisions to manage copyright or related rights on behalf of rightholders, although not covered by this directive, should be subject to certain transparency requirements. more transparency also means making as much information as possible available to the public, while ensuring the protection of personal data at all times.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this legislative resolution and reiterate its importance for the proper functioning of the union's internal market, particularly on the internet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on copyright and related rights and multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use, considering that the agreement reached is balanced and will promote greater transparency and fair remuneration for artists.
in writing. - in july 2012, the commission proposed a directive containing general provisions on collective rights management for all sectors, as well as specific provisions on multi-territorial licensing of online music. its objective is to facilitate the licensing of rights and, more generally, access to attractive digital content, in particular in a cross-border context, thereby ensuring that consumers and businesses fully benefit from the opportunities of the digital single market.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive aims to create an appropriate legal framework for the collective management of rights which are administered by collective management societies on behalf of their holders, by laying down rules ensuring better governance and greater transparency for all collective management societies and also by encouraging and facilitating the granting of multi-territorial licences of authors' rights in their musical works to collective management societies of the copyright which represent them. a licence from the holder of a copyright or a related right is required whenever a service is provided which includes the exploitation of the protected work of an author. the growing demand for music on the internet knows no national boundaries or restrictions. this is where collective management societies come in, particularly in the music sector, as they collectively manage, on behalf of composers and authors of lyrics, the licensing of copyright-protected musical works for online use by collecting and redistributing the corresponding royalties. the new directive aims to make it easier for service providers to obtain the necessary licences for the online distribution of music across the eu and to ensure that revenues are correctly collected and distributed in a fair way by composers and lyricists.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive aims to create an appropriate legal framework for the collective management of rights which are administered by collective management societies on behalf of their holders, by laying down rules which are intended to create greater transparency for all collective management societies. the european commission and the ep rapporteur consider it necessary to take measures with regard to the rigour, transparency and accountability of these companies. the development of a single market for online cultural content has led to requests for changes in the licensing of copyright, in particular the licensing of copyright in musical works, as online music service providers face difficulties in obtaining licences for an aggregated repertoire for the territory of more than one member state. the directive thus aims to facilitate the granting of multi-territorial licences through music copyright management companies for the provision of online services. it seems appropriate.
in writing. - this proposal approves new rules to facilitate the licensing of music online across the eu and to ensure that revenues are correctly collected and distributed fairly by composers and lyricists. the new measures should give consumers access to more diversified repertoires. the new directive aims to make it easier for service providers to obtain the necessary licences for the online distribution of music across the eu and to ensure that revenues are correctly collected and distributed in a fair way by composers and lyricists. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the dissemination of copyright-protected content must take cultural diversity into account in its actions and contribute to the development of the cultures of the member states, while respecting their national and regional diversity and at the same time highlighting the common cultural heritage. collective management organisations play an important role in promoting and preserving cultural diversity by allowing rightholders to be remunerated for uses that they would not be in a position to control or enforce, including in non-national markets. in addition, they play an important social and cultural role as promoters of the diversity of cultural expressions, allowing smaller and less popular repertoires to gain access to the market. in this context, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use in the internal market.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. the proposal simplifies the granting of pan-european licences for musical works, reduces transaction costs for users and provides for equal access to markets. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive aims to create an appropriate legal framework for the collective management of rights which are administered by collective management societies on behalf of their holders, by laying down rules which are intended to create greater transparency for all collective management societies. the european commission and the ep rapporteur consider it necessary to take measures with regard to the rigour, transparency and accountability of these companies. the development of a single market for online cultural content has led to requests for changes in the licensing of copyright, in particular the licensing of copyright in musical works, as online music service providers face difficulties in obtaining licences for an aggregated repertoire for the territory of more than one member state. the directive thus aims to facilitate the granting of multi-territorial licences through music copyright management companies for the provision of online services. it seems appropriate.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that the market abuse directive, adopted in early 2003, has not achieved its objective of strengthening investor confidence and market integrity, even though it has introduced a comprehensive framework to combat insider dealing and market manipulation. the commission's impact assessment, on the other hand, emphasises that the sanctions currently in force in relation to the fight against market abuse are not effective and sufficiently dissuasive, which results in an ineffective implementation of the directive. in addition, the definition of what constitutes a criminal offence of insider dealing or market manipulation differs considerably from one member state to another. since market abuse can take place across borders, this divergence is detrimental to the internal market and leaves a certain margin for market abusers to seek the most favourable forum shopping. the impact assessment concluded that it was essential to impose on member states the introduction of criminal sanctions for the most serious market abuse offences in order to ensure the effective implementation of the union's market abuse policy.
in writing. - this report aims to combat insider dealing and market manipulation, which will help restore confidence in eu financial markets and increase investor protection. there is a great deal of fragmentation in the european union's legislation on this matter. this report will harmonise the rules to be applied in the 28 member states within two years, allowing for effective penalties for infringers across the eu. in serious cases of insider dealing and market manipulation, the sanction to be applied may involve a maximum prison sentence of not less than four years. in the case of unlawful disclosure of inside information, a maximum penalty of imprisonment of not less than two years. this report will contribute to maintaining the integrity of securities markets and to the confidence of those involved in their functioning. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this proposal for a european commission directive aims to combat insider dealing and market manipulation, in order to restore confidence in eu financial markets and increase investor protection. due to differences in legislation across eu countries, these bad practices often escaped effective punishment, leading to significant losses for investors and distortions for the real economy. in this regard, this directive harmonises the rules to be applied in all 28 member states and ensures that within a maximum of two years, this legislation will be harmonised and will allow for the application of effective sanctions to infringers throughout the eu. the penalties to be applied may, in serious cases of insider dealing and market manipulation, involve a maximum prison sentence of not less than four years and, in cases of unlawful disclosure of inside information, a maximum prison sentence of not less than two years. i am voting in favour of this legislative proposal because i believe that it contributes in a positive and active way to maintaining the integrity of securities markets and to the confidence of the players in the functioning of securities markets.
in writing. - the introduction of criminal sanctions to combat market abuse is an important innovation and a valuable reinforcement of the instruments to combat abusive behaviour. the current definition of what constitutes a criminal offence of insider dealing or market manipulation differs considerably between states and, since market abuse situations may involve more than one state, this divergence is detrimental to the internal market and leaves some scope for market abusers to seek the most favourable forum. it is therefore important to introduce uniform criminal sanctions for the most serious market abuse offences in order to ensure the effective implementation of the union's market abuse policy.
in writing. - this proposal for a european commission directive aims to combat insider dealing and market manipulation, in order to restore confidence in eu financial markets and increase investor protection. due to differences in legislation across eu countries, these bad practices often escaped effective punishment, leading to significant losses for investors and distortions for the real economy. in this regard, this directive harmonises the rules to be applied in all 28 member states and ensures that within a maximum of two years, this legislation will be harmonised and will allow for the application of effective sanctions to infringers throughout the eu. the penalties to be applied may, in serious cases of insider dealing and market manipulation, be a maximum of a four-year prison sentence and, in the case of unlawful disclosure of inside information, a maximum of a two-year prison sentence. i am voting in favour of this legislative proposal because i believe that it makes a positive and active contribution to maintaining the integrity of securities markets and to the confidence of those involved in the functioning of securities markets.
in writing. - as defined in this report, criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation have a limited impact, demonstrating that the aim of this proposal for a directive is above all to harmonise sanctions so as not to distort competition in the eu's internal market. the majority of meps do not support the conditions for dealing seriously with illegal behaviour - often in the criminal sphere - on financial markets. the increasing financialisation of the economy, the free movement of capital and financial speculation which is a fundamental component of the capital markets are never called into question. the turbulence of the financial markets is the inevitable result of these processes and the insatiable greed of big capital for profits, trying to counteract the tendency of the profit rate to fall. the backlash against financial speculation is reaching an unprecedented level, particularly with public debt, with the consequence of the destruction of social and labour rights of a civilizational dimension in countries such as portugal. thus, by excluding monetary activities and the management of public debt from its scope, some of the most impactful activities are left out, which only shows that with this directive, crime will continue to pay off.
in writing. - investors who trade on the basis of inside information and manipulate markets by spreading false or misleading information can now avoid penalties by taking advantage of the differences in the laws of the 28 eu member states. in some countries, the authorities do not have effective sanctioning powers, while in others there is no provision for criminal sanctions for certain offences related to insider dealing and market manipulation. the new directive, already agreed with national governments, sets out a set of eu-wide rules to ensure that criminal sanctions are applied to insider dealing and market manipulation activities. member states should also impose criminal penalties for instigation and complicity in market abuse and for attempting to commit such offences. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mccarthy report on criminal sanctions for market abuse (in financial markets) because this legislative initiative has become necessary to combat such serious criminal acts as the manipulation of euribor rates. the market economy is not a laissez faire economy. it is a regulated economy, whose rules need to be defended, including by criminal repression in the most serious cases. as the famous sarbanes-oxley act of 30 july 2002 in the united states has shown, only criminal law can adequately defend the economic and social values on which the market economy is based. moreover, if there is a single eu market for financial services, a minimum of common rules at union level is required. a market without frontiers requires a european economic criminal law, for which there is a constitutional basis in the treaties (tfeu, article 83 (1) and (2)). the principle of subsidiarity clearly does not apply here.
in writing. - this proposal is based on the market abuse directive which introduced a comprehensive framework to combat insider dealing and market manipulation, together known as market abuse. the proposal aims to increase investor confidence and market integrity, and to prohibit practices such as the dissemination of false information or rumours and the pursuit of activities that raise prices to abnormal levels in the markets. however, this proposal, in addition to following this approach, also adopts the approach of ensuring the use of criminal law for the effective implementation of eu policies in the interests of the principles of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. in view of all this, i voted in favour of this proposal on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation.
in writing. - i know . directive 2003/6/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 28 january 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation has completed and updated the legal framework of the european union to protect market integrity. i am in favour of this directive which lays down minimum standards for criminal sanctions for the most serious infringements committed, in particular insider dealing and market manipulation. member states shall ensure that competent authorities have the power to detect and investigate market abuse situations and that appropriate administrative measures or administrative penalties are taken against persons responsible for breaching the national rules implementing that directive. i therefore vote in favour of this report, which ensures greater integrity of the financial markets in the european union and greater protection for investors.
in writing. - this report is more of a statement of good faith based on the good faith with which some financial activities are done. the proposals for criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation have limited effect. the report does not create the conditions necessary to deal seriously with illegal behaviour - in many cases criminal - in the financial markets. the increasing financialisation of the economy, the free movement of capital and the financial speculation which this enables on the capital markets are never called into question. the fact that the origins of the turbulence in the financial markets are the inevitable result of capitalist speculation, based on the financialization of the economy and the strengthening of the conditions of global exploitation with a view to obtaining maximum profit margins, is never mentioned. it is assumed that the problems are rooted, solely and essentially, in greed or in the breach of rules by some managers. it is the logic of speculation that must be eradicated. to assume that sanctions can correct the errors of speculative activity is to agree with it. and we won't accept it.
in writing. - i approve this report, since the regulation provides that every two years the member states (or the body to which they delegate this task) collect and communicate data and information on certain types of investment projects relating to the construction, modernisation or closure of production, transport and storage capacities (specified in an annex to the regulation). the oil, natural gas, electricity and biofuels sectors are covered, as are projects related to carbon dioxide emissions from these sources. the regulation provides that energy companies are obliged to provide the necessary data to their own member state. the aim is to ensure that the commission is regularly and accurately informed about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure in order to be able to carry out its energy tasks. the commission will present every two years a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural evolution and prospects of the eu energy system, as well as other specific analyses as necessary. this would make it possible to identify potential future imbalances between supply and demand and obstacles to investment. this regulation aims to make projected demand and available supply more transparent.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this legislative resolution and stress the importance of coordinating investment in energy infrastructure projects in order to achieve the internal energy market which the union is proposing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on investment projects in energy infrastructure because it provides that member states keep the commission informed of the development of these projects so that the commission can identify potential imbalances between and investment needs in energy infrastructure in the eu, in particular through the intersectoral analysis of the structural evolution of the eu energy system.
in writing. - green growth without undermining competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the promotion of national projects that contribute to the community's objectives of reducing emissions and increasing energy independence. it is essential that europe should achieve energy independence, which can only be achieved in two ways: (i) greater diversification of sources - which in gas is absolutely necessary; and (ii) an increase in the energy produced in the union. to do this, we need a legislative framework appropriate to investment projects in energy infrastructure such as the one we are now approving.
in writing. - this proposal for a new commission regulation follows the decision of the european court of justice to annul council regulation (eu, euratom) no 617/2010 on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union and to maintain its effects until a new regulation is adopted on the appropriate legal basis, namely article 194 (2) tfeu. some adjustments have been made to this regulation which are strictly necessary because of the new legislative procedure. a large part of the amendments adopted by the european parliament in 2010 through the consultation process have been taken into account in the new proposal. thus, every two years, member states are required to communicate to the commission data and information on investment projects relating to the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas and electricity.
in writing. - a proposal to revise the legal basis of the regulation on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure, following a judgment of the european court of justice which decided to annul the existing regulation by means of a legal action brought by the european parliament against the council. the initial legal basis proposed by the council was article 337 tfeu on the collection of all necessary information on energy infrastructure investment projects, useful information on the basis of cooperation between member states in energy development. the amendment of the legal basis for the new regulation places this information within the framework of the establishment or functioning of the internal market and, taking into account the need to preserve and improve the environment, the union's energy policy, the primary objective of which is to ensure the functioning of the internal energy market, a change in the legal basis with which we cannot agree. the information which could be useful to member states in order to know about planned and under construction projects, projects to convert existing infrastructure and projects to close down others, as provided for in the regulation, will now be useful to those who defend and hold european energy monopolies and determine how the market should develop.
in writing. - this regulation provides that every two years the member states (or the body to which they delegate this task) collect and communicate data and information on certain types of investment projects relating to the construction, modernisation or closure of production, transport and storage capacities (specified in an annex to the regulation). the oil, natural gas, electricity and biofuels sectors are covered, as are projects related to carbon dioxide emissions from these sources. the regulation provides that energy companies are obliged to provide the necessary data to their own member state. the aim is to ensure that the commission is regularly and accurately informed about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure in order to be able to carry out its energy tasks. this makes it possible to make projected demand and available supply more transparent. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a regulation on the application of the principle of proportionality to the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. in this proposal the commission proposes a regulation with the same content and scope as the repealed regulation. some adjustments have been made which are strictly necessary due to the new legislative process. it is noted that many of the amendments adopted by the european parliament in 2010 through the consultation process have been taken into account in this new proposal. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this draft which aims to ensure that the commission is regularly and accurately informed about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure in order to be able to carry out its tasks in the field of energy.
in writing. in march 2013, the european commission published a communication on energy infrastructure investment projects in the european union, which aims to establish a common framework for the communication to the commission of data and information on energy infrastructure investment projects. i am voting in favour of this report which sets out a global perspective of the priority investments of european energy policy, calls for member states to improve communications on ongoing projects and strengthens energy security by identifying possible gaps in terms of infrastructure, investment and associated risks. it should be noted that, despite the strategic importance of these projects, the proposal will have a limited impact on the eu budget, involving in particular it expenditure and, if the commission so decides, expenditure on data acquisition and the reimbursement of experts.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular with regard to the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, that at its meeting on 23 january 2014 the committee on budgetary control heard the candidate proposed by the council for the post of member of the court of auditors and gave a favourable opinion on the council's proposal for the appointment of klaus heiner lehne as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i wish my dear colleague klaus-heiner lehne every success in the important task for which he is appointed, and i am convinced that he will carry out the duties for which he is now appointed with the same dedication and competence that i recognize in the performance of his duties in this parliament.
in the case of the court of auditors, the court of auditors is an independent institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. on the council's initiative, several personalities from various eu countries have been appointed to the court of auditors. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name klaus-heiner lehne.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of klaus-heiner lehne as a member of the court of auditors. all the data presented for this option, including the replies to the questionnaire for candidates for members of the court of auditors annexed to this report, justified my decision by indicating that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union are met and that the members of the court of auditors must be fully independent, and i therefore welcome the appointment of klaus-heiner lehne.
in writing. - section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits on any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. member states shall submit a proposal to the council which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. i am voting in favour of the appointment of klaus-heiner lehne as he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european court of auditors, as a professional audit institution, must apply, among other things, the international auditing standards applicable to the public sector. i also believe that the european court of auditors was set up by the 1975 budget treaty to carry out the audit of eu finances and that as the external auditor of the eu it contributes to improving the financial management of the union while acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of eu citizens. furthermore, given the current highly volatile economic and financial situation, effective micro- and macroprudential supervision governed by the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness is required in a modern and challenging european union.
in writing. - i consider it extremely important that the european parliament should be involved both in defining the future role of the court of auditors and in the procedure for appointing the members of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, as the external auditor of the union institutions, can not only provide the legislators with a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in a given budgetary year, but is also in a privileged position to provide the legislators and the budgetary authority, in particular parliament's committee on budgetary control, with valuable advice on the results achieved by the union's policies, with a view to improving the performance and effectiveness of the activities financed by it, identifying economies of scale and scope as well as secondary effects between member states' national policies and making available to parliament external assessments relating to the evaluation of the public finance committee of the member states. i agree that the court must remain true to the principles of independence, integrity, impartiality and professionalism, while at the same time establishing solid working relations with its partners, in particular the european parliament, and more specifically its committee on budgetary control, but also with the specialised committees, in the process of holding the eu institutions to account.
in writing. this report follows a number of appointments to the court of auditors, which have given rise to differences of opinion between parliament and the council. the report considers that if these persist, they could undermine the working relations between the court and these institutions and possibly have serious negative consequences for the credibility and, consequently, the effectiveness of the court itself. the report thus follows the line of strengthening the role of parliament and setting stricter criteria for the appointment of the members of the court of auditors. however, we do not follow the considerations which leave open the possibility of changing the number of members of the court of auditors. currently, the criterion is based on geographical representation for senior management, whereby there may be one member per member state. any proposal to change this criterion of representation will not merit our support.
in the case of the court of auditors, the court of auditors is an independent institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. the court must therefore remain true to the principles of independence, integrity, impartiality and professionalism, while establishing strong working relationships with its partners, in particular the european parliament and more specifically its committee on budgetary control, but also with the specialised committees, in the accountability process of the eu institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the future role of the court of auditors, in particular on the procedure for appointing the members of the court of auditors and the consultation of the european parliament, which stresses that parliament should be allowed time for deliberation so that the candidates can be heard properly by the committee on budgetary control and the committee on budgetary control can vote at a meeting to be held after the hearing.
- the court of auditors is understood as the external auditor of the institutions of the european union and must maintain its independence, integrity and impartiality in the examination of the accounts and transactions underlying a given financial year. i support this report which sets out several new dimensions and challenges for the court of auditors and advocates greater cooperation with the national supreme audit institutions (sais). i would also stress that in the multiannual budget 2014-2020, the court of auditors should maintain its focus on the results achieved by providing adequate reporting on the risks and performance of these new instruments.
in the light of the recent events in the united kingdom, the commission has decided to submit a report to the european parliament on the situation in the community. the report notes that if these persist, they could undermine the working relationship between the court, parliament and the council and possibly have serious negative consequences for the credibility and effectiveness of the court itself. the report under consideration is designed to strengthen the role of parliament and to define stricter criteria for the appointment of the members of the court of auditors. we are not following the considerations which leave open the possibility of changing the number of members of this court. we also do not support any proposal to change the present representation criterion - geographical representation for senior management - under which there can be one member per member state.
in writing. - i do not support this report, considering that the emphasis on a policy development cycle, which integrates the phases of launching, impact assessment, consultation, enactment, implementation and evaluation of european union legislation into a coherent process, should in my view be seen as a useful tool in pursuing the objective of stimulating growth and competitiveness in europe. in this respect, the adequacy of eu regulation and the 10 most onerous pieces of legislation for smes represent credible, albeit rhetorical, progress in the context of the better regulation programme and reflect many of parliament's previous calls. parliament therefore hopes that the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) - although it could be better named in the context of the better regulation programme - will lead to more concrete actions and burden reduction.
in writing. - the questions of intelligibility, necessity, adequacy, proportionality and subsidiarity must always be present in the mind of the european legislator. many of the criticisms of european legislation are legitimate. it must be noted that the way in which the directive is drafted, which is and should be based on consensus, does not always allow for a clear and clearly understandable statement of the rules. the differences in interpretation and application of various legislation are evident, demonstrating its composite, compromise and sometimes dubious nature. better legislation is worth the effort. i believe that this will be achieved by legislating less and doing so in a simpler and more fluid way, without resorting to chain letters or jargon that is difficult to understand. legislation must serve the citizens and offer them the necessary legal certainty. the european parliament must continue to fight for this.
in writing. - legislation proposed and adopted at european level must be simple, effective and efficient, offer clear added value, be easy to understand and accessible to all in all the official languages of the member states, and provide all kinds of advantages at minimum cost. i would remind you that the european institutions must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when they legislate. it should be noted that the impact assessment committee and national parliaments have on several occasions considered that these principles have not been adequately addressed in the commission's impact assessments. i agree that better lawmaking should be pursued in a spirit of multi-level governance, i.e. through coordinated action by the eu, national institutions and local and regional authorities.
in writing. - legislation proposed and adopted at european level must be simple, effective and efficient, offer clear added value, be easy to understand and accessible to all in all the official languages of the member states, and provide all kinds of advantages at minimum cost. the european institutions have a responsibility to ensure that legislation is clear and easy to understand and does not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on citizens and businesses. the european institutions, when they legislate, must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. - i did not vote for the karim report on better lawmaking because it suffers from three vices which are typical of the british view of the eu. the first, typically neoliberal, is the idea that all regulation is a regulatory burden on business and should therefore be removed as much as possible. the fight against excessive regulation cannot be waged in the name of regulatory minimalism, especially when the labour and social rights of the european social model are at stake. the second vice is the typically anti-european idea that eu regulation is, in principle, to discard in favour of national (de) regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-way street. one of the causes of the financial crisis of 2009 was the absence of such regulation. the third vice - this european anti-democracy - consists in subjecting all european legislation to prior scrutiny by the national parliaments, beyond the subsidiarity scrutiny, where it is justified. in a federal system such as the eu's, the federal parliament cannot be subject to the veto of the national parliaments when it comes to legislating on matters of union competence.
in writing. - the emphasis on a policy cycle, which integrates the phases of launching, impact assessment, consultation, enactment, implementation and evaluation of eu legislation into a coherent process, should be seen as a useful tool in pursuing the objective of stimulating growth and competitiveness in europe. in this respect, the adequacy of union regulation and the 10 most burdensome legislative acts for smes represent credible progress in the context of the better regulation programme and reflect many of the earlier calls of parliament. parliament therefore hoped that the programme for regulatory adequacy and effectiveness could lead to more concrete action and to a reduction in burdens. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. the initiatives aim to adapt the union's legislation to this end and include the 10 legislative acts on administrative and regulatory burdens for smes, thus representing a step forward in this direction. while some progress has been made in a number of areas, much work remains to be done, including through the renegotiation of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to take account of the new legislative framework of the lisbon treaty. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
unlike the mass campaign that generated hundreds of messages and emails in the last few days, the roadmap against homophobia, the lunacek report, does not seek to create special rights for lgbt citizens but rather to guarantee them on an equal footing with everyone else. in the last european survey in 2013, the fundamental rights agency indicated that 47% of lgbt citizens were subject to discrimination or harassment, 26% of respondents were assaulted or threatened with violence. what the report is introducing is this basic right, which is non-discrimination in employment, education and access to health care. i even have the audacity to go further in the name of dignity by defending lgbt citizens from hate speech and hate crimes. the lunacek report is based on these three simple but radical ideas: dignity, respect and equality, and i am glad that it has been adopted.
in writing. - i support this report because i share the view of the european parliament that a similar comprehensive policy instrument is needed to combat discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. this report outlines such a comprehensive policy. there are three strong arguments - a legal, a political and a strategic - for this scenario. the european union has a legal obligation to combat discrimination in the definition and implementation of its policies and actions and prohibits all forms of discrimination. this legal requirement has already been embodied in comprehensive policies in the field of gender equality, disability and roma integration. it must now be implemented for discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. politically, there is support in the european parliament and in the member states, eleven of which officially called for such a roadmap in may 2013. finally, the strategic data demonstrate the need for a roadmap. the lgbt survey published by the agency for fundamental rights in 2013 indicates that 47% of lgbt people felt discriminated against or harassed in the past year.
in writing. - respect for human dignity, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of minorities, are values common to all member states and on which the eu is based. we have taken decisive steps towards a europe of fundamental rights by making the charter of fundamental rights legally binding, by making the promotion of fundamental rights in the union one of the priorities for the future of the area of freedom, security and justice and by confirming the central place that human rights occupy in the union's external action. the action of the union and its member states must be irreproachable in the field of fundamental rights, combating any form of discrimination, whatever the reason for it, respecting differences and combating prejudices and practices which violate the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of their religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. although non-discrimination is recognised as one of the eu's core values, in practice the level of legal protection to ensure these values differs between member states and between the grounds for discrimination. i agree that everyone should enjoy the same respect, dignity and protection as the rest of society. to reject this report would be to tolerate homophobia and to waver in the fight against discrimination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it promotes equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. it is regrettable that the fundamental rights of lgbti people are still not fully upheld in the european union. the commission and the member states should work together towards the adoption of an action plan in this area, aimed at protecting the fundamental rights of lgbti persons.
the right to liberty and the principle of equality are concepts which have shaped western civilization and the rule of law. that is why states must ensure in their universal declarations and constitutions that no one can be discriminated against on the basis of his or her sexual orientation. this was a fundamental advance in the fight against discrimination and against homophobia. while i welcome the existence of a roadmap against discrimination and homophobia, it seems to me that some of the issues of custom, such as same-sex marriage or adoption, should be left to the discretion of the member states, with european legislation assuming its subsidiary character.
in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the eu is obliged to combat discrimination in all its forms. the report condemns all discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity and deeply regrets that the fundamental rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people are not always fully upheld in the eu, a reproach with which we agree. the commission, member states and relevant agencies are invited to work together on a strategy or action plan to combat this type of discrimination, aiming for a horizontal approach in all future policy initiatives, including in employment, education, health, goods and services, as well as mainstreaming transgender and intersex specific issues in all relevant policies, in line with gender equality strategies and providing equality bodies with information and training on rights and specific issues. the roadmap also covers aspects of citizenship, families and freedom of movement, freedom of assembly and expression, speech and hate crime and the right to asylum. we voted yes.
in writing. - i voted against this report, as i had done with the estrella report, because i considered that it was largely a matter of subsidiarity.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in this context, discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is strictly unacceptable. i have voted against the lunacek report, however, because i consider that, given the political and temporal context in which it was put forward, it has a propaganda and lifestyle dimension, which i do not consider acceptable. each person's sexual orientation is his or her own private matter and should not be the subject of ostentation.
in writing. - this own-initiative report follows the member states' request to the european commission to present a roadmap containing a strategy and action plan to eliminate all forms of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity: general guidelines capable of protecting the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people. i am against any kind of discrimination and accept that these actions to be included in the roadmap are discretionary, so that the principle of subsidiarity is applied, since it is up to the member states to apply it to their reality, taking into account the main objective, which is non-discrimination and human dignity. all human beings, regardless of their race or ethnicity, religion, creed, sex, age and sexual orientation, should be treated equally in all areas of public and private life. it was the principles of equality and non-discrimination which made me vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the report condemns all discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity and deeply regrets that the fundamental rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people are not always fully upheld in the eu, a reproach with which we agree. the european commission, member states and relevant agencies are called upon to work together on a strategy or action plan to combat this type of discrimination, aiming for a horizontal approach in all future policy initiatives, including in employment, education, health, goods and services, and to mainstream transgender and intersex specific issues in relevant policies. the roadmap also covers aspects of citizenship, families and freedom of movement, freedom of assembly and expression, speech and hate crime and the right to asylum. in line with the report's ideas, we cannot accept that the european external action service - an entity which aims to implement the eu's policies of imperial domination - should use the pretext of combating homophobia to intervene even more in third countries.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the need to strengthen the implementation of the directive, as there are still gaps. i also stress the need to strengthen cooperation between national authorities within the cpc network. the commission's idea of setting up training courses for these authorities and for judicial staff is a positive one, and such training should aim, in particular, at improving knowledge of the functioning of the system applied in the other member states. i would also like to remind you of the importance of clean-up operations and ask that they be reinforced. in addition, it is desirable that the data collected in the course of these operations, as well as the actions taken as a result of these operations, be made public. however, even if there is a correct and full application of the directive by member states, compliance by undertakings with it will only be more effective if there is an enhanced level of prevention and a clear prospect of sanctions in case of infringement.
- the development of the digital economy and all its technological applications has revolutionized the way companies buy and advertise and sell goods and services. the protection of consumers and their rights is one of the fundamental values of the union. directive 2005/29/ec aims to protect consumers from unfair business practices and to increase consumer confidence in transactions in the internal market, while ensuring greater legal certainty for businesses. it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the national authorities responsible for the application of the directive with a view to achieving its full application and proper enforcement by the member states. it is essential to ensure that consumers have effective, quick and inexpensive redress. in order for consumers to fully enforce their rights, it is necessary to support the establishment of a coherent union-wide consumer protection collective redress mechanism applicable to cross-border proceedings. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets out a set of criminal sanctions in cases of insider trading or market manipulation. these new rules, which provide for clear and stronger sanctions, could make a significant contribution to restoring confidence in eu financial markets and increasing investor protection.
in writing. - directive 2005/29/ec aims to protect consumers against unfair business practices and i agree with the rapporteur that its text does not need an exhaustive review but needs to be properly transposed and applied in the member states. unfair trading practices undermine consumer confidence and have harmful effects on the economy, and should therefore be strictly prohibited and severely punished.
in writing. - directive 2005/29/ec aims to protect consumers against unfair business practices and to make consumers more confident in their transactions in the internal market, whilst ensuring greater legal certainty for businesses. i would stress the effectiveness of the legislative framework provided for in the directive and its importance in making consumers and traders more confident in transactions in the internal market (in particular cross-border transactions), in ensuring greater legal certainty for businesses and in strengthening consumer protection in the union. the commission should clarify the articulation of directives 2005/29/ec and 2006/114/ec in order to ensure a high level of protection of all economic operators in the union, and in particular consumers and smes, against fraudulent or unfair practices and thus to strengthen confidence in the internal market.
in writing. - directive 2005/29/ec focuses on some of the negative aspects of business-to-consumer relations - unfair trading practices - with the wider aim of ensuring consumer confidence in the internal market and promoting cross-border business transactions. to this end, once again in the interests of the better functioning of the internal market, it is intended to harmonise community legislation in the field of unfair trading practices. the temporary derogations allowing member states to continue to apply national provisions expired on 12 june 2013. the report therefore seeks to put pressure on the member states to bring their legislation into line with the text of the directive as soon as possible. the report calls on the commission to take legal action against member states which do not comply with, do not implement or do not apply the directive correctly. we have obviously voted against this piece of unbridled profession of faith in neoliberalism, which uses federalism and the increasing concentration of power in a directory to force the institutionalization of this same neoliberalism.
in writing. - directive 2005/29/ec aims to protect consumers against unfair business practices and to make consumers more confident in their transactions in the internal market, whilst ensuring greater legal certainty for businesses. however, it is necessary for member states to comply fully with it in order to give consumers a sense of security in their relationship with the internal market.
in writing. - this directive aims to protect consumers against unfair commercial practices by undertakings in relation to them and to increase consumer confidence in transactions in the internal market, whilst at the same time ensuring greater legal certainty for undertakings. while parliament is of the opinion that the provisions of this directive are satisfactory and does not consider that there is a need for an exhaustive revision of the text at this stage, it considers that it is essential that member states implement this directive in full and correctly. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive.
in writing. - i know . the main objective of this directive is to protect consumers against unfair commercial practices by giving them greater confidence in transactions in the internal market and to provide businesses with greater legal certainty. however, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between national authorities and to establish a coherent collective redress mechanism at eu level. this mechanism will be used to enable consumers to assert their rights, applicable to cross-border proceedings and based on the principle of voluntary participation. the correct and full implementation of this directive by the member states is essential. the rapporteur adds that the penalties for unfair practices should be higher and that dialogue between national authorities and the european commission should be encouraged. it is also necessary to increase consumer awareness of the support possibilities available to consumers, from consumer rights associations to the network of european consumer centres.
in writing. - directive 2005/29/ec aims to regulate the negative aspects of business-to-consumer relations - unfair commercial practices - with the express aim of ensuring consumer confidence in the internal market and promoting cross-border commercial transactions. to this end, once again in the interests of the better functioning of the internal market, it is intended to harmonise community legislation in the field of unfair trading practices. the temporary derogations allowing member states to continue to apply national provisions expired on 12 june 2013. the report therefore attempts to put pressure on the member states to bring their legislation into line with the text of the directive as soon as possible. the report calls on the european commission to take legal action against member states that do not comply with, do not implement or do not apply the directive correctly. we cannot agree to the sanctions.
in writing. - i abstain from this report. i believe that access to an effective judicial system is also fundamental to the effectiveness of eu law: where a national court applies eu law, it acts as a court of the union. ensuring common standards is therefore particularly important, as courts must provide effective remedies to any person whose rights are affected under union law. however, i welcome the objective of creating effective and independent justice systems in the member states, which can contribute to economic growth and increased competitiveness. the commission should therefore be congratulated on this initiative. i think that there are still some comments to be made. it is difficult to measure certain values, such as judicial independence. however, it is necessary to try to see whether these values are being respected in the member states.
in writing. - the union comprises an area of justice, with respect for the different legal systems and traditions of the member states, and it is therefore essential to improve the quality, independence and effectiveness of national judicial systems in order to enable citizens, businesses, judges and authorities to trust, respect, recognise and enforce decisions taken by the judicial system of another member state, thus contributing to greater trust, sustainable growth and social stability. the eu justice scoreboard should therefore provide objective, reliable and comparable data on the functioning of judicial systems in all member states, in order to help the eu and the member states to improve their effectiveness. it should help identify possible gaps and best practices in order to support both member states and the eu institutions in developing more effective justice policies with a view to developing independent, fast, easily accessible and cost-effective justice systems. it is undoubtedly a positive step towards the development of a genuine european area of justice that can meet the expectations of citizens and contribute to sustainable growth, based on the rule of law and other values on which the union is founded.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the creation of effective and independent justice systems in the member states, which can contribute to economic growth and increased competitiveness. to ensure equal treatment, common rules on data provision should also be implemented and the eu institutions should be more closely involved in preparing the evaluation of national justice systems.
in writing. - the aim of the justice panel is to contribute to the development of national judicial systems and to strengthen their quality, efficiency and independence. it focuses on civil and commercial matters as these are closely linked to the economy. it collects data from member states and evaluates it to enable them to improve their judicial systems. this exercise should not affect the equal treatment of member states, their structural particularities and their different legal traditions. the assessment shall be based on objectively measurable data. i think that it is advisable to exercise some caution in the way this project is implemented and to prevent it from being used for political purposes which would be detrimental to its aims.
in writing. - this own-initiative report is a response to the 2013 justice in the eu panel produced by the commission. it should be noted that this report focuses only on the areas of civil, commercial and administrative law where the judiciary is of particular importance for economic recovery. improving the quality, independence and effectiveness of judicial systems is one of the main objectives of public interest policies, both at national and eu level. national justice systems play a key role in restoring confidence and returning to growth. an effective and independent judiciary also contributes to confidence and stability. predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are key elements of an attractive business environment. the deficiencies in the functioning of the judicial system undermine the trust of citizens and businesses in judicial institutions, in particular at this time of financial, economic and social crisis.
in writing. - this report focuses only on the areas of civil, commercial and administrative law where the judicial system is of particular importance for economic recovery. improving the quality, independence and effectiveness of judicial systems is one of the main objectives of public interest policies, both at national and eu level. national justice systems play a key role in restoring confidence and returning to growth. an effective and independent judiciary also contributes to confidence and stability. predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are key elements of an attractive business environment. the deficiencies in the functioning of the judicial system undermine the trust of citizens and businesses in judicial institutions, in particular at this time of financial, economic and social crisis. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. - this own-initiative report is a response to the 2013 justice in the eu panel prepared by the commission. the report focuses only on the areas of civil, commercial and administrative law where the judiciary is of particular importance for economic recovery. parliament called for the improvement of the quality, independence and effectiveness of judicial systems to be one of the main objectives of public interest policies, both at national and eu level, and for national justice systems to play a key role in restoring confidence and returning to growth. indeed, an effective and independent judiciary contributes to trust and stability. predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are key elements of an attractive business environment. the deficiencies in the functioning of the judicial system undermine the trust of citizens and businesses in judicial institutions, in particular at this time of financial, economic and social crisis. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposals to create effective and independent justice systems.
in the case of the european union, the aim of the justice panel is to contribute to the development of national judicial systems and to strengthen their quality, effectiveness and independence. it concerns only civil and commercial matters, since they are directly related to the economy. in addition, the panel collects data from member states and evaluates it in order to support member states in improving their legal systems. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the express objective of the justice in the eu scoreboard is to provide objective, reliable and comparable data on the functioning of justice systems in all member states. it is a liaison tool that analyses efficiency indicators for non-criminal cases, in particular for civil and commercial contentious cases that are relevant for the resolution of commercial disputes and for administrative cases. the report welcomes this panel of evaluators. it emphasises that the outcome of the evaluation panel must meet certain fundamental criteria, such as equal treatment between member states, objectivity and comparability of data. the report calls for greater emphasis to be placed on the training of judges, judicial officers and other legal professionals in the eu. unlike the rapporteur, we do not consider that justice systems are designed as a tool for competitiveness, nor do we support the creation of a common judicial area.
in writing. - i support this report because, looking at the regions and communities that are leading in this area, it is clear that success is often the result of openness and transparency between local authorities, businesses, industry and the community and local citizens. joint planning and implementation efforts, in a process involving all stakeholders, create synergies and better long-term benefits for regions, not only in terms of secure and affordable energy production and supply, but also in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits. for this reason, the best results are achieved when a holistic approach is taken, incorporating also related sectors such as transport, housing and urban planning. smart grids, including smart meters and smart storage solutions, can facilitate this development by enabling a new and smarter type of energy system, where energy is produced and used at the production site and not transported over long distances, and where two-way communication between the production and consumption sides is possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the local and regional consequences of the development of smart grids, taking into account the potential of these systems to ensure security of energy supply, reduce dependence on fossil fuels and promote job creation.
- the development of smart grids has brought and continues to bring energy benefits at local and regional level. i am obviously in favour of matters which contribute to the benefit and sustainable development of all the particular regions of my country. i see little added value in the content of this report, however. i shall vote in favour, however.
in writing. - i would stress the many benefits of smart grids, in particular in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy and distributed generation, ensuring security of supply for households, creating conditions for efficient use of electricity in transport, enabling consumers to adapt their consumption in order to benefit from lower prices and at the same time save energy, improving energy efficiency, saving electricity, reducing the high level of investment in electricity grids by using energy outside periods of high consumption and promoting technological innovation and development in the eu. it should be noted that many regions in europe have developed projects within the current eu framework that have promoted synergies in selected areas on the one hand and energy sustainability and renewable energy on the other, in which public and private partners have combined their efforts to exploit regional growth opportunities in the energy sector, thanks to early use of european structural and investment funds resources, the establishment of specific partnerships at local, regional, national and european levels, as well as effective and decentralised implementation strategies for the exploitation of local energy resources.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the positive aspects of these smart grids are most apparent when they are applied in a context of defending the public interest and of an energy sector under public, democratic control. these networks can thus represent new opportunities for the regional economy. the report points out, however, that the network infrastructures and the current market rules are not adapted to the situation. it can have positive impacts on local employment but also warns of a shortage of skilled labour, and therefore urges all regions to consider investing in skills and training for possible new jobs. attention is drawn to the need to improve data protection and confidentiality (in smart metering systems) by presenting a framework for smart energy systems. however, the report does in part guide these smart grid investments in the context of the internal market and the development of public-private partnerships and crossborder projects, a dimension with which we do not agree and which in some way transforms the positive aspects mentioned which now take on other contours, in particular by serving interests in favour of private capital.
in writing. - in times of rising energy prices, accelerating climate change and intensifying socioeconomic challenges, eu regions will have to look for ways to ensure a stable, secure energy supply that is accessible to all citizens and respects environmental and sustainability criteria. there are already good examples throughout the eu of disadvantaged regions that have invested in their own energy production systems, with excellent results. an example of this is the outermost region of madeira in my country. all this shows that a smart grid can be the cornerstone of a sustainable energy perspective that includes increased renewable energy production, energy savings and better, local use of locally produced energy. it is therefore necessary to look at smart energy systems as a global concept that brings significant benefits to european regions. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this report on the local and regional consequences of the development of smart grids concludes that the guarantee of security of energy supply and the reduction of dependence on fossil fuels is a consequence of smart grids and that in addition to these there are other benefits for local communities, in particular in terms of employment and green jobs. indeed, the renewable energy sector has withstood the current economic crisis and can continue to create jobs in regions where they are most needed, such as coastal and rural areas. a well-integrated deployment of energy networks within regional energy plans will also enable citizens to take an active role and responsibilities in the energy and network planning of their regions and to reap the financial and social benefits of these decisions. such empowerment leads citizens to become producer-consumers, producing, using and selling their own energy within a smart grid. i agree with this analysis and with the content of this report, and therefore i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the concept of smart energy networks allows the creation of a comprehensive system, ranging from production to storage and consumption at the production site. this concept is already a reality in some european regions, notably on the island of porto santo, where 30% of the electricity used is produced from algae. in addition to a sustainable system that reduces dependence on fossil fuels and combats climate change, and at the same time encourages investment in renewable energy, it creates jobs and wealth in the communities where it operates. moreover, it allows for the creation of alternatives to the available sources of energy. despite the huge investments required, these smart grids are an opportunity for the regions within a broader energy plan, which also incorporates the transport, housing and urban planning sectors. the implementation of this system requires the involvement of all actors and the use of the structural and investment funds that will be available for the development and implementation of these networks. with the excellent conditions that the outermost regions have for the development of renewable energies, i am voting in favour of this report, because i consider it an important element for my region.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that one of the challenges faced was the question of the definition of small farms at european level. after a thorough analysis, it was concluded that a common definition could not be established. there have been many attempts, with varying degrees of success, to define a small or semi-subsistence farm, but the large disparities between member states or production sectors do not allow any of the definitions to be applied at european level. in addition, the definitions vary according to the needs for which they were created, and there is a lack of uniform criteria. in view of these factors, we must not forget the small regions which are highly dependent economically and socially on the agricultural sectors, in particular the outermost regions, the less populated regions, the islands, the mountainous and remote regions, because with the end of milk quotas the economic survival of many regions depends on effective european support for the development of small-scale agriculture.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the future of small farms, because it includes measures to implement the support for small farmers and producer organizations provided for in the new cap and to promote direct sales of traditional products.
in writing. - this own-initiative report calls for concrete action under the new cap and for the period after 2020 to help boost the situation and prospects of small farms. these small family businesses are an important element of the european agricultural model and their viability is essential for the multifunctional and integrated development of rural areas in order to contribute to alleviating the problem of rural exodus and depopulation. without these small farms the aims of the new cap will hardly be achieved, jeopardizing the occupation of land, the protection of the environment, quality production and the financial viability of many households and small businesses. it therefore makes perfect sense not only to be aware of their particular realities and circumstances but to give them due attention and priority.
in writing. - i believe that agricultural activities are, more than ever, strategic activities which should be given attention by all member states in order to find solutions for small farmers. diversification, as well as the creation of non-agricultural jobs and the provision of public services in rural areas, are essential for the future of these farms and rural communities. a solution must be found to allow small farms to submit multiannual applications for direct payments, which must be updated only in the event of changes on the holding concerned. given the optional nature of the small farmers scheme in the first pillar of the cap (direct payments), it is necessary that all the support arrangements for small farmers under the second pillar (rural development) be taken into account and implemented. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. i also advocate that cohesion policy should support direct sales on local and regional markets, including traditional products, by focusing on the implementation of direct sales infrastructures such as local and municipal markets.
in writing. - this report does not present alternatives to the daily disappearance of small farms, advocating: development through increased area and production in order to participate fully in the market; continuation of activity along with modifications through diversification of sources of income; liquidation resulting from the transfer of land to developed farms; or maintenance of their current state until they pass into the possession of the next generations, due to the impossibility of finding employment or other sources of income. in other words, according to this report, the future of small farms is their disappearance in favour of big agribusiness. we therefore tabled an alternative report in which we advocate, inter alia, the maintenance of production quota systems; we demand the maintenance of the planting rights of the vineyard; we are in favour of the introduction of compulsory modulation and capping of support in the framework of the reform of the cap which is now being finalised. we support the introduction of a maximum intermediation margin scheme, which promotes a fair and adequate distribution of value added along the food supply chain. we are in favour of the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by the eu budget to guarantee a minimum income to farmers affected by natural disasters.
in writing. - the adoption of this report is accompanied by measures to meet the specific challenges of small farms. all the support for small farmers provided for in the new cap and specific support for producer organisations should be applied to small farms. increased direct sales of traditional products should be encouraged to increase the income of small farmers. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the future of small farms, given their importance and relevance in terms of occupying rural space, preserving biodiversity, maintaining the landscape, transmitting customs and traditions and being a means of subsistence for millions of european families. whereas these small farms are less efficient but more employing than large farms; the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. it is essential that their survival is not jeopardised, since they are usually family farms, whose managers are very old and have low qualifications, unlike other types of farms. i believe that the european union has a responsibility to support them, not only in the acquisition of better equipment and technology but also in terms of access to markets.
- small farms, an integral part of the european countryside, not only help to maintain the diversity of the landscape, but also provide a means of subsistence for thousands of people, who thus maintain traditions and customs popular in the countryside. although inferior in terms of efficiency, small farms are superior in terms of employment and diversity of production. one of the major challenges of this report was to find the definition of small farms at european level. due to disparities between member states or production sectors, it has become difficult to establish a single common definition. thus, the one that is closest to the ideal is based on the area criterion, i.e. the number of hectares of uaa, where small farms have an area of less than 2 ha or 5 ha of uaa. according to the report, small farms have the possibility to introduce various types of production and activity and should therefore be encouraged to find production niches such as organic or regional products. it should be noted that the reform of the common agricultural policy introduces simplifications and forms of support for small farms.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that the importance of the internet economy and in particular of e-commerce for the whole sector has been widely recognised. in 2012, the business-to-consumer e-commerce market in the union grew by around 20% to eur 250 billion. between 2013 and 2016, e-commerce is expected to grow by more than 10% annually across the european region. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. at the same time, crossborder e-commerce, although showing steady growth, is still lagging behind national sales in almost all the european union. statistical data show that there is a great potential for growth of e-commerce in the european union, with cross-border e-commerce expected to quadruple. however, this potential will only be realised if delivery services meet the needs. affordable, affordable and high-quality delivery services are a key prerequisite for realising the full potential of european e-commerce.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. there is therefore a great potential for growth in e-commerce. however, this potential will only be realised if delivery services meet the needs of retailers and consumers of e-commerce. the european commission should encourage industry to cooperate in the creation of a package of measures to foster the development of a genuinely integrated european delivery market, based on more streamlined and effective processes that help reduce costs and increase quality. this package of measures should cover the following aspects: promoting collaboration between industries on integrated cross-border location systems; easier solutions for the collection and return of products, in particular cross-border; interoperability of call centres to receive consumer complaints; information platforms on available delivery services to increase transparency for smes and consumers. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support an integrated parcel delivery market which will encourage the growth of e-commerce. this market, with a great deal of scope for development, should be promoted at european level through an effective internal delivery system without compromising member states' social and employment standards or harming smes or start-ups.
in writing. - in 2012, the business-to-consumer e-commerce market in the eu grew by around 20% to €250 billion. between 2013 and 2016, e-commerce is expected to grow by more than 10% per year. however, e-commerce markets vary widely across the eu, with over 80% of uk internet users shopping online in 2012, but only 11% in romania. at the same time, crossborder e-commerce, although showing steady growth, is still lagging behind national sales in almost the whole eu, with huge growth potential. to realise this potential, affordable, high-quality and accessible delivery services are needed across europe.
- the importance of the internet economy and in particular of electronic commerce for the whole sector has been widely recognised. in 2012, the e-commerce market for the business to consumer (b2c) segment in the eu grew by around 20% to eur 250 billion. between 2013 and 2016, e-commerce is expected to grow by more than 10% annually across the european region. however, e-commerce markets vary widely across the eu, for example in the uk, more than 80% of internet users made online purchases in 2012, but the percentage in romania was only 11%. at the same time, crossborder e-commerce, although showing steady growth, is still lagging behind national sales in almost all eu countries. statistical data show that there is great potential for growth in e-commerce in the eu, with cross-border e-commerce expected to quadruple. affordable, affordable and high-quality delivery services across europe are a key prerequisite for realising the full potential of e-commerce and should be promoted through free and fair competition.
in writing. - this report follows the commission's communication on e-commerce and online services. it is noted that e-commerce has enormous potential to combat the economic and financial crisis, strengthen the single market and promote economic growth and job creation across the european union. the report's premises are: - the level of consumer confidence needs to be increased, particularly in cross-border purchases. the rapporteur believes that this can only be overcome by affordable, cost-effective and high-quality delivery services, which should be promoted through free and fair competition; - trade must respect eu competition rules; - effective transposition of the postal services directive, eu competition law, the alternative dispute resolution directive and the consumer rights directive. the report makes only one reference to the observance of labour rights, working conditions and pay in the delivery services sector. all the proposals made by the employment committee and our group on labour issues have been rejected.
in writing. - the importance of the internet economy and in particular of e-commerce to the whole sector has been widely recognised. in 2012, the e-commerce market for the business to consumer (b2c) segment in the eu grew by around 20% to eur 250 billion. between 2013 and 2016, e-commerce is expected to grow by more than 10% annually across the european region. however, e-commerce markets vary widely across the eu, for example in the uk, more than 80% of internet users made online purchases in 2012, but the percentage in romania was only 11%. at the same time, statistical data show that there is a great potential for growth in e-commerce in the eu, with cross-border e-commerce expected to quadruple. however, this potential will only be realised if delivery services meet the needs of retailers and consumers of e-commerce without becoming a barrier. affordable, affordable and high-quality delivery services across europe are a key prerequisite for realising the full potential of e-commerce.
in writing. - in 2012, the business-to-consumer e-commerce market in the eu grew by around 20% to €250 billion. between 2013 and 2016, e-commerce is expected to grow by more than 10% annually across the european region. however, e-commerce markets vary widely across the eu, for example in the uk, more than 80% of internet users made online purchases in 2012, but the percentage in romania was only 11%. cross-border e-commerce still lags behind national sales but statistical data show that there is great potential for growth in e-commerce in the eu, with cross-border e-commerce expected to quadruple. based on the interests of consumers at the heart of the delivery process, this report argues that the time has come to put consumers at the heart of the delivery process and to bridge the gap between consumer expectations and reality on the ground, moving towards greater transparency, better quality, cheaper prices and greater availability. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in order to achieve this, some of the identified shortcomings need to be addressed, such as the lack of transparency, the low quality of delivery services and the high costs of cross-border deliveries. the digital single market requires consumers' needs to be at the forefront of its implementation. thus, logistics operators and service providers should be encouraged to cooperate in the creation of measures to promote the development of this market, with lower costs and higher quality. solutions need to be found for the collection and return of products and the creation of platforms providing information on available delivery services needs to be promoted. the rapporteur also stresses that there should be a monitoring of market development in order to identify its weaknesses to be addressed at a later stage. the digital single market is increasingly becoming a pillar of the european economy and i therefore voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. - this report follows the european commission's communication on e-commerce and online services, which sees e-commerce as having a huge potential to combat the economic and financial crisis, strengthen the single market and promote economic growth and job creation across the european union. the main premises of this report are: (1) there is a need to increase consumer confidence, particularly in cross-border purchases. the rapporteur believes that this can only be overcome by affordable, efficient and high quality delivery services, which should be promoted through free and fair competition; (2) the creation of a more competitive integrated single delivery market, with different delivery options and logistical support possibilities at lower prices, is a prerequisite for accessing new markets and reaching more consumers in the eu. only one paragraph makes reference to the observance of labour rights, working conditions and pay in the context of delivery services. we do not accept this view of deregulation of the online services market.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning by welcoming the action plan for the steel industry presented by the european commission which proposes a series of measures to respond to the current situation of the steel industry. as steel will continue to be an essential raw material in europe's industrial value chains, i believe that demand for steel should be stimulated by the main steel-using sectors, including new industries with high growth potential. i also call for better market monitoring, as it can help industry to anticipate demand cycles and the authorities to fight against illegal practices. i would stress the importance of the steel industry, which currently provides 350 000 direct jobs and several million jobs in related industries, but the adaptation to the crisis has resulted in job losses coupled with the loss of skills which will be difficult to recover. i therefore call for measures to be taken to reduce the social impact of industrial restructuring, such as the use of european union funds.
in the case of the steel industry, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind. the european steel industry is at risk of losing competitiveness as a result not only of the financial crisis, which has led to a reduction in demand from the automotive and real estate sectors, but also of the emergence of new producing powers in this sector. steel should remain an essential raw material in europe's industrial value chains and its demand should be encouraged. i am in favour of this report because it welcomes the main features of the action plan for the steel industry presented by the european commission which proposes a series of measures to respond to the current situation of the industry.
(i) the european community's role in the world economy is to be strengthened by the development of the world economy and the development of the world economy; the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. therefore, maintaining a competitive european steel production plays a strategic role in ensuring economic growth and employment in europe. the european steel industry has lost more than 65 000 jobs in recent years as a result of the closure of plant. the recovery in domestic demand is not expected to take place in the short term and the share of european companies in the world market is declining. i support the commission's action plan for the steel industry in europe as an important element in preventing further relocation of steel production outside europe. notes that the existing european legislation on competition and state aid ensures a stable framework for the steel sector; calls on the commission to remain determined in pursuing and punishing cases of distortion of competition;
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel market is not affected by the crisis. the commission is called upon to make further progress in reforming the regulatory framework for financial markets in order to avoid price volatility caused by speculation and to improve the security of supply of steel and raw materials. portugal, like other countries, is paying the price of the eu's steel restructuring policy, which has protected and protected the large steel groups, secondary to the role that the state steel sector could play in the development of the weaker economies in the european context. the continuing elimination of jobs in the steel industry is being seen. the export of scrap iron by the eu shows yet another unmistakable sign of the out of control of the steel industry at european level, despite the promises to the contrary made years ago by the european commission when it called for the coordination of the policies for restructuring the steel industry. indeed, producing steel from scrap, particularly in some high-consumption steel products, is more favourable in many respects: less investment, less environmental impact.
in writing. - one of the first steps on the road to european integration was the coordination of steel production through the founding of the european coal and steel community (ecsc). maintaining a competitive european steel production plays a strategic role in ensuring economic growth and employment in europe. however, in the face of the crisis the eu has been going through, the european steel industry has lost more than 65 000 jobs in recent years due to the closure of factory facilities. the recovery in domestic demand is not expected to take place in the short term and the share of european companies in the world market is declining. an effective action plan could save the european steel industry. i think that this plan presented by the commission is in that direction, and i therefore vote in favour.
(i) the european community's role in the world economy is to be strengthened by the development of the world economy and the development of the world economy; in addition to this historic role of steel, parliament stresses in this report that the european steel industry is the basis for europe's main value chains, such as the automotive, construction, mechanical and electrical engineering sectors, and renewable energy. i therefore voted in favour of this report which advocates the maintenance of competitive european steel production as a strategic role in ensuring economic growth and employment in europe.
the european project in which we are involved was born on the basis of steel, with the creation of the european coal and steel community in 1951 with the aim of integrating and coordinating the production and distribution of steel and coal. the steel industry remains essential for the whole european industrial sector, in particular for the automotive, construction, mechanical, electrical and renewable energy industries. as the cornerstone of the european industrial chain, the commission presented an action plan to strengthen and develop a sector which has suffered setbacks as a result of the economic crisis. this requires a transparent energy market with fair costs, allowing the sector to compete with its international partners. we must also monitor the market to prevent illegal agreements, the abusive control that some countries have over the flow of raw materials. finally, i would stress the need for a clear commitment to r & d, thus differentiating itself from its competitors, and a comprehensive strategy involving environmental protection, energy and competitiveness. i am in favour of this report because we need an industry which knows how to find new market sectors and which is able to position itself globally.
in writing. - this report reaffirms the aims of the european commission's communication, which essentially aims to ensure the proper functioning of the european scrap steel market by strengthening the internal market and advancing european infrastructure development projects by supporting the creation of clusters for research and the development of public-private partnerships. the commission is called upon to make further progress in reforming the regulatory framework for financial markets in order to avoid price volatility caused by speculation. however, none of these concerns is directed towards defending the real interests, the guarantee of employment and the rights of workers in this sector. portugal, among others, is paying the price of the eu's steel restructuring policy, which has protected the large steel groups, secondary to the role that the state-owned steel sector could play in the economic development of more backward countries like portugal in the european context. the export of scrap iron by the eu shows yet another unmistakable sign of the out of control of the steel industry at european level, despite the promises to the contrary that the ec made years ago when it called for the coordination of steel restructuring policies.
i would like to make it clear that for the epp, and in particular for the portuguese delegation of the epp, the existence of a banking union is absolutely decisive. but banking union must be a real banking union and not this proposal from the council, which is inadequate in many respects. of course, if someone asks us whether this proposal is progress, we can say that it is progress, but in this respect we welcome the position which the commission has taken from the beginning, which was a much more open position and, moreover, the european central bank was also in the first phase much more open to the existence of a real banking union. on behalf of those countries which are in adjustment, i would like to say that portugal has been strictly and thoroughly complying with the agreement that was concluded, but it knows that part of the problems that have existed have resulted precisely from the fact that the euro is not a finished and perfect construction. we cannot now make the same mistake, and that is why i call on the member states, and in particular on the council and the governments of some of the more reluctant states, to agree to negotiate with the european parliament, to agree to a genuine codecision procedure and to reach an agreement here which will allow the creation of a banking union which will give confidence to the markets and which will do justice to those european peoples who have been working very hard over the years to be able to have a real currency in the euro area.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate commissioner barnier on his proposal for a genuine banking union. after that presentation, a process of discussion and negotiation was opened up, and the members who have made up the european parliament's negotiating team have been extraordinary in that respect. they have advocated the existence of a true banking union with citizens in mind. the banking union exists so that trust and equality can coexist, equality between the different states of the european union. it is not acceptable that a company in portugal that takes out a loan pays three times more interest than an equal company in germany pays. it is not acceptable that we do not move towards a situation of confidence among depositors. this solution was also devised to make it possible to separate states from banks. we cannot accept that a solution such as the one put on the table by the council is now being put forward, which would put banks and states back in touch. we must take away the solutions to this crisis, we must make an opportunity of the crisis, and that is why i hope that a good solution can be found in these negotiations, a solution that is quick but, fundamentally, that is positive and that is going in the right direction.
the so-called banking union, decided in the context of the deepening of economic and monetary union, falsely presented as the solution to all the problems of the banking and financial sector, will, on the contrary, make possible even greater concentration and centralisation of the banking and financial sector. the single bank resolution mechanism will not end with the transfer of public resources (and labour) to financial capital. what is at stake is the centralisation of this process - which is at the origin of the contradictions that have not yet been fully resolved in the council - directed from the eu institutions and financed, once again, by the national budgets, that is, by the citizens of the member states, in particular through the european stability mechanism. at the same time, the ecb's monetary and financial policy is not only maintained but deepened, with the bank continuing to be financed at ridiculous interest rates so that it can make huge profits in a genuine process of extortion against the states. the dogma of free movement of capital, the financialization of the economy and the conception of the banking system not as an instrument for job creation and the development of the productive economy - under public ownership and control - but as a sector that hovers above it and feeds off it.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, trade defence instruments are not protectionism, they are free and fair trade. the union has an obligation to defend the european industry against dumping or subsidies by its external competitors. the effectiveness of the trade defence system is essential and this modernisation exercise, as it is called, should be an exercise in strengthening fair competition in international trade. the union's trade defence system is considered one of the most liberal in the world, going far beyond the requirements of the world trade organisation and unparalleled by our trading partners, notably the united states. the draft submitted by the commission already had some positive aspects and the amendments adopted in the inta committee substantially improve the commission's proposals, so it deserves approval by this parliament tomorrow. however, the guidelines announced by the commission in parallel with the legislative initiative risk weakening the defence of the industry and nullifying the gains of the regulation. in particular, the union interest test as defined by the commission is liable to sacrifice the interests of the industry concerned in favour of the interests of importers and others. the union cannot continue to expose european industry to increasing external competition without at the same time strengthening its defence against unfair trading practices.
mr president, commissioners, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on their work. the european energy and climate strategy must combine the fight against climate change with security of supply and energy and the competitiveness of the economy. this requires a framework and a medium- and long-term policy, which provides guarantees for businesses and encourages investment. an affordable, available and clean energy system can only be achieved with a strong commitment to science and innovation, so as to reduce the costs of technology. energy and climate policy allows the european union to lead by example, but it is essential to have a global agreement on this matter that reconciles the preservation of the planet, the competitiveness of the european economy and the sustainability and well-being of current and future generations.
the commission proposal falls short of what is needed. the european union must maintain its global leadership in the fight against climate change, but to do so it must pursue an ambitious policy based on binding targets already by 2030: reducing co2 emissions by 50%, increasing renewable energy by 40% and increasing energy efficiency by 40%. we regret that some member states are opposed to the setting of binding national targets for renewable energy and are investing more in nuclear and shale gas than in renewables. the debt crisis cannot be used as a pretext for leaving an environmental debt to future generations. according to the stern report, an investment of just 1% of world gdp could avoid a loss of 20% of that gdp in the long run. there are sectors where we cannot save. in the fight against climate change, saving money can mean mortgaging the future.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that problem is the very rules of this policy, a policy which insists on a centralised view of fisheries management, a view far removed from reality, which does not take account of the particularities of each country and each region, of the different fisheries and, for that very reason, often produces outdated guidelines from this reality, guidelines which are not understood by the sector and which end up not being applied or, when they are, end up having the opposite results from those intended. it is here, first of all, that action is needed, upstream of control and facilitating this task of control, promoting a proximity management that promotes a genuine involvement of the sector in policy formulation and not just in its implementation, ensuring the implementation of the principle of co-management.
in writing. in general, regulations make it possible to clarify the limits and extent of the activities of each of the institutions of the european union, but there are matters where the type of activity is less clear. i believe that this should promote a policy of multi-institutional control on the one hand and decentralized management on the other. firstly, i also agree with the rapporteur that it is useful for the european parliament to be able to monitor ex post the activities delegated to the commission in certain areas. on the other hand, it is necessary that the regionalisation of the reform be effective and that genuine decentralised management be introduced. it called for the regions and regional advisory councils to be closely consulted in order to ensure more effective implementation and monitoring of the standards adopted, for example in the field of fisheries management and the allocation of funding for the scientific monitoring of the state of stocks, so that, where necessary, positive discrimination is made in areas such as the azores, as their specific marine biogeographical characteristics require.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of workers from the risks arising from - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on international trade, on which i am rapporteur, has given a favourable opinion on the agreement on cooperation in the field of competition between the european union and switzerland. the exchange of confidential information between competition authorities is in this respect an important contribution to effective competition protection, especially since there is a high degree of integration between the two economies in this context. i welcome the initiative of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which is the lead committee, to take the opportunity to launch a wide-ranging debate on these cooperation agreements on competition. in a globalised world and global value chains, anti-competitive practices also constitute non-tariff barriers to international trade. the european union should learn from this agreement, as has already been said, and should proceed to conclude other second-generation agreements with other countries. competition is one of the so-called singapore issues which unfortunately has been left out of the doha agenda of international trade negotiations. this leaves the bilateral route. that is why we welcome this agreement.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs from the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on international trade for producing a report which is the most progressive and comprehensive that this house has ever seen on arms control. the ratification and implementation of the now envisaged arms trade treaty is essential for the regulation of the trade in and monitoring of arms flows globally and, in particular, in regions experiencing instability and armed conflict. this report makes important progress and helps to shape a european position that puts the spotlight where it belongs, on respect for international human rights and humanitarian law, on the protection of democracy and the rule of law and on the promotion of effective conflict prevention and resolution. the european union has increased responsibilities in this area, not only because it is a pioneer in the adoption of a mandatory system for monitoring trade in and transfers of arms, military equipment and technology to third countries (the common position adopted in 2008), but also because there is still much to be done between member states to ensure transparency and compliance of publicity in the arms trade. all member states of the union must commit themselves to establishing binding, independent and effective internal mechanisms to ensure transparency, monitoring and control of transfers and to combat opacity and corruption in their own arms and military technology industries. only concerted action and effective political will can bring about change in an economic and trade pattern that has a direct impact on human rights violations, the proliferation of weapons and the duration of armed conflicts in many parts of the world. this is the central axis of the arms trade treaty. it exists because there are wars and gross violations of human rights; it does not exist to facilitate arms exchanges and transfers and is therefore not a trade agreement like any other. it is also vital that the european parliament has a scrutinising role in the implementation of both the arms trade treaty and the 2008 common position on the export of military technology and equipment.
i begin as véronique mathieu by thanking mrs malmström for the commission's proposal and by congratulating mr claude moraes on the excellent work which has enabled an agreement to be reached at first reading after intensive and lengthy negotiations. the directive is one of a set of five proposals under the action plan on legal migration. it aims to establish fair and transparent rules for the entry and residence of temporary seasonal migrants, while providing incentives and safeguards to prevent temporary stays from becoming permanent. this category of workers, like the category of highly qualified workers, is crucial for the competitiveness of the european union. the need for low-skilled and low-skilled labour is increasing in sectors such as agriculture, horticulture and tourism, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to fill these gaps by using workers from the european union. by adopting rapid admission procedures (maximum 90 days), based on common and flexible definitions and criteria (existence of a contract or binding job offer) and by ensuring the existence of a legal status for seasonal workers, we are creating safeguards against their exploitation and subjecting them to unacceptable working conditions, guaranteeing them fair and dignified working and living conditions and, as other speakers have already recalled, we are also protecting seasonal workers who are citizens of the european union from any form of unfair competition. a common approach to immigration in the european union is imperative. in an area without internal borders, there can be no fragmented and incoherent approach because any action or migration policy taken by one member state necessarily has consequences for all the others.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is, however, appropriate to make some comments on this agreement. in order to avoid interruptions of payments due by the european union to gabon under sectoral support, it is necessary to maintain a stronger commitment to verifying the principles necessary for a correct absorption of the aid, in respect of gabon's sovereignty and its legitimate choices and priorities. the report makes some recommendations in this respect. it should also be emphasized that this agreement should promote, in the medium term, the exploitation by gabon of its own resources, increasing the added value of the fishing activities that remain in the country, the wealth generated in this way, the part of the wealth that remains in this country. in this respect, we cannot but point out that it was possible and desirable for the commission to go further. it is necessary to address shortcomings in the regular monitoring of catches by european union vessels in the gabonese fishing zone. finally, and this is not too much to stress, there is a need for greater involvement and participation of the european parliament at all stages of the procedures relating to the protocol or its renewal.
i voted in favour of this report because it is based on the clear recognition that undocumented immigrant women are a social group particularly vulnerable to over-exploitation in the labour market, discrimination and gender-based violence. and the report makes a set of recommendations to the member states that it would be very important for them to follow. one of them is that undocumented immigrant women should be guaranteed the right to health and access to health care without the risk of being deported and that member states should stop putting pressure on health professionals whenever they want to treat these women. on the other hand, support should also be guaranteed in cases of gender-based violence and attention should be paid to situations in which women seek asylum precisely because of previous situations of violence. i believe that no person can be considered illegal and that undocumented women should have access to all basic rights. it would be very good indeed if this implementation were a fact and not just a matter of paper.
in writing. - i support this report, taking into account that undocumented migrant women do not have immediate access to gender-specific health care, such as pre- and post-natal care. worse still, these women are actually afraid to reach out to ngos and civil society organizations that can actually help them, making it difficult for ngos to reach out to them as well. the recommendations proposed in the report are positive: access to primary health care and education, as well as protection of physical integrity, are fundamental rights that undocumented migrants should enjoy, regardless of their legal status or residence. migrants should therefore be able to access these primary services and also to report perpetrators of abuse to the police without fear of detention or deportation.
in writing. - we have seen a huge increase in migratory flows, including large numbers of women and children, driven by the complex circumstances generated by wars and exacerbated by humanitarian crises on a global scale. undocumented migrant women constitute a vulnerable social group, more likely to be exposed to violence and abuse, and are potential victims of labour market, sexual and human trafficking exploitation. any individual who does not have a valid identity document and is present on the territory of a member state without fulfilling the necessary conditions for entry or stay may be subject to a deportation decision, and this fear leads many irregular migrant women to live in situations of continued abuse without access to any kind of help. this situation once again highlights the urgency of a common legal framework for migration policies that protects migrants and potential victims, especially women and children, who are vulnerable to various forms of organised crime and other forms of abuse and violence. it is also important that member states seek to separate immigration policies from primary healthcare. unfortunately, the inclusion in the document of impractical measures with clear demagogic connotations made it impossible for me to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the need to protect the fundamental rights of undocumented migrants, to advocate the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and migrant, refugee or other status. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's human rights policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's human rights policy.
- migrant women are often particularly vulnerable when accompanied by children and without identification documents. i am voting against this report, not because i disagree that women should be protected in situations of vulnerability, but because i think it contains unclear definitions regarding the treatment of undocumented migrant women.
in writing. - the term 'undocumented migrant' defines a third-country national whose presence in the eu is currently illegal and who therefore does not have a residence permit authorising his stay in that territory. i stress that migration policy and the management of migration flows, whether regular or irregular, are the joint responsibility of the member states. illegal immigration is a particularly pressing issue and a common legal framework for migration policies is needed, which protects migrants and potential victims, especially women and children, vulnerable to various forms of organised crime in the context of migration and trafficking in human beings; the commission also stresses that a common legal framework can reduce illegal migration. i consider that undocumented migrant women and children constitute a vulnerable social group, exposed to human trafficking, discrimination and exploitation.
in writing. - the term 'undocumented migrant' defines a third-country national whose presence in the eu is currently illegal and who therefore does not have a residence permit authorising his stay in that territory. the migrant entered the eu illegally, or his visa expired, or his asylum application was refused. as usual, the situation of undocumented migrant women is worse than that of men. we must look for ways of not discriminating against migrant women, who are already in a very weak position. this report aims to defend undocumented migrant women in the eu in all their difficulties and needs.
in writing. - the term 'undocumented migrant' defines a third-country national whose presence in the eu is currently illegal and who therefore does not have a residence permit authorising his stay in that territory. the migrant entered the eu illegally, or his visa expired, or his asylum application was refused. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the return policy and the implementation of the return policy, in particular by ensuring that the return policy is implemented in a timely manner and that the return policy is implemented in a timely manner. i voted in favour of the recommendations proposed in this report, including the encouragement for member states to separate immigration policies from health care and education, as well as from criminal prosecutions against undocumented migrants, by promoting access to primary health care and education, and the protection of physical integrity, fundamental rights which undocumented migrants should enjoy, on a humanitarian basis, and regardless of their legal status or residence.
in writing. - women migrants without documents, i.e. illegal migrants, are in a very vulnerable situation, which must be taken into account by the authorities of the member states. the vulnerability of this group is demonstrated by the triple discrimination they face, based on gender, legal status and race and/or ethnicity. for these reasons and because of their situation, this group suffers serious abuses. undocumented migrants, regardless of race and/or ethnicity and gender, should have the same rights and access to primary health care and education for their dependent children. on the other hand, they should be encouraged to seek help from the state's legal counselling centres, since human physical integrity should not depend on legal status or residence. finally, i would like to point out that undocumented migrants are not aware of directive 2009/52/ec on measures and sanctions against employers, which grants them rights and safeguards for certain abuses suffered due to their irregular situation. the report also calls for the introduction of an anonymous complaint procedure to avoid fears. finally, i would like to stress the importance of reviewing the conditions in detention centres. for the reasons stated above, i am in favour of this report.
i must confess that after a few years in this house, with legislation being passed in every plenary session that is destroying more and more labour rights, i am positively surprised that we have managed to pass a directive today which restores some rights for seasonal workers. more than 100 000 people a year move to europe to work in agriculture and tourism, and we cannot ignore the conditions in which they have been working. therefore, decent conditions, the right to adequate housing, extension of stay, equal treatment, equal pay for equal work, protection against dismissal are basic issues of dignity associated with workers' rights. but one thing is certain, madam president, immigrants in the european union remain very vulnerable and to think that by solving the problem of seasonal work, we have solved the problem of immigration is to turn a blind eye. we need to guarantee the rights of workers for all immigrants in europe and not just for them. i think, however, that this is a good start.
in writing. - i approve this report, based on the commission communication entitled 'action plan on legal migration 2005'. i agree with this report in that it provides for the submission of a proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work, since i note that there is a need to recruit seasonal workers in certain sectors. in this connection, conditions must be created to prevent immigrants from working illegally and in precarious conditions in this periodic work environment. the commission published its proposal in july 2010 as part of a package together with the proposal for a temporary transfer scheme within companies employing workers from third countries. i believe that this initiative is necessary to prevent the exploitation of seasonal workers and to ensure that human and labour rights are respected in all member states. in this context, it should also be noted that the creation of a legal framework for immigration and seasonal work has contributed to reducing illegal immigration and the exploitation of workers.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report and reiterate the need to ensure effective protection of the rights of seasonal workers from third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the granting of a number of important rights to seasonal workers from third countries. the new rules ensure that these workers are treated equally with nationals of the host member state as regards working conditions, making social dumping more difficult.
- seasonal workers from third countries are periodically needed in certain sectors of activity in the eu, such as agriculture and tourism, where many work in precarious conditions. according to commission figures, some 100 000 seasonal workers enter the eu every year. i therefore think it is very important that the rights and duties of these workers are clarified, as well as a set of rules that can make this labour exchange profitable for both parties. it seems reasonable to me that the admission of a seasonal worker to an eu country should be made conditional on the existence of a valid employment contract or a binding offer of employment specifying the place and type of work, the duration of the employment, the remuneration and the number of hours of work per week or month, the duration of paid holidays and, where appropriate, other working conditions.
in writing. - this proposal establishes a rapid procedure for the admission of third-country nationals employed as seasonal workers, based on common definitions and criteria applicable to such workers. it lays down the conditions for granting a residence and work permit valid for a maximum of six months per calendar year and lays down the rights of seasonal workers. it incorporates a number of provisions designed to ensure greater protection for seasonal workers, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report aims to reduce the exploitation of seasonal workers and their working and living conditions. this view, while improving the existing legislative framework, is still reductive, impregnated with a utilitarian approach to migrants and lacking in solidarity, since the eu uses these workers while their work is useful and returns them to their countries of origin after they have become expendable. that is why we have reservations about this report. however, the directive establishes a rapid procedure for the admission of seasonal workers, provides for the conditions governing the granting of a residence and work permit valid for a maximum period of six months per calendar year and lays down the rights of seasonal workers, ensuring equal treatment to safeguard wage and working conditions. admission will depend on the existence of an employment contract or a binding job offer specifying the salary to be paid and other working conditions. it also provides for sanctions against employers, taking into account the vulnerable situation of seasonal workers, in particular as regards compensation if their authorisation has been withdrawn because their employer has failed to comply with its legal obligations.
in writing. - this directive guarantees a set of rights for seasonal workers from third countries. the new rules ensure that these workers are treated equally with nationals of the host european country as regards working conditions and the right to decent housing. the aim is to prevent their exploitation in the eu and, at the same time, to prevent a temporary stay from becoming permanent. the admission of a seasonal worker to an eu country will depend on the existence of a valid employment contract or a binding job offer specifying the place and type of work, the duration of the employment, the remuneration and the number of hours worked weekly or monthly, the duration of paid holidays and, where appropriate, other working conditions. seasonal workers will be entitled to equal treatment with nationals of the host country with regard, for example, to the minimum age for admission to employment and to working conditions relating to pay, dismissals, working hours, holidays and leave, and to health and safety requirements at the workplace. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the 2005 action plan on legal migration provides for the submission of a proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work, considering that seasonal workers are periodically needed in certain sectors (...) in which many immigrants work illegally and in precarious conditions. the commission published its proposal in july 2010 as part of a package together with the proposal for a temporary transfer scheme within the companies of third-country workers. the parliament states in this report its conviction that this directive is necessary to prevent the exploitation of seasonal workers, especially in the light of recent events (notably in rosarno, italy, but not confined to a particular member state). the commission also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of workers from the risks arising from the use of the seasonal workforce are respected. the european commission therefore proposed in 2005 a directive laying down rules on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work. since the ban leads to clandestinity and illegality, these workers should be protected in the same way as union workers, since they are needed in certain sectors, notably agriculture, horticulture and tourism. this proposal establishes a rapid procedure for the admission of third-country nationals employed as seasonal workers, based on common criteria and definitions. the minimum period of residence is 5 months and the maximum 9 for a year, 12 months, with each member state deciding the quota to be allowed. i would like to stress the importance of the employment contract specifying the salary and working conditions, as well as proof of adequate accommodation at a fair cost, and the right to information on complaint mechanisms against employers. finally, i should like to mention that it is important to regularise seasonal workers who are illegal, by giving them the opportunity to benefit from this same directive. i am in favour of this report.
in writing. the european parliament's amendments to this proposal for a directive seek to reduce the exploitation of seasonal workers and their working and living conditions. although it improves the existing legislative framework, it is still a reductionist perspective, steeped in a utilitarian approach to migrants and lacking in solidarity, since the eu uses these workers while their work is useful and returns them to their countries of origin after they have become expendable. it does, however, establish a fast-track procedure for the admission of seasonal workers, provides for the conditions governing the granting of a residence and work permit valid for a maximum of six months per calendar year and lays down the rights of seasonal workers, ensuring equal treatment to safeguard wage and working conditions. admission will depend on the existence of an employment contract or a binding job offer specifying the salary to be paid and other working conditions. employers will be required to provide proof that the seasonal worker will have adequate accommodation during his stay and trade unions and ngos will be able to lodge complaints on behalf of seasonal workers. but it does not, for example, safeguard the right to social assistance.
in writing. - i approve this report, since the ban on numerous imports by several countries has had the negative but inevitable consequence of changing the flags of the ships. another consequence was that non-contracting parties became contracting parties, as the interpretation of the relevant iccat resolutions (notably by the then european community) indicated that when non-compliant flag states became members, import bans would lose their effect, without requiring the new contracting parties to prove that they had repaired the damage for which they were responsible and in the absence of an effective mcse system. this regulation represents the last vestiges of that chapter in the history of iccat. there are complex rules established by iccat for the fishing and marketing of tuna, especially for valuable species such as bluefin tuna and bigeye tuna, which are intended to control the fishing and trade of tuna and tunas. this highlights the importance of addressing iuu fishing in the context of the atlantic tuna and tuna-like fisheries. in this context, i consider it premature to reduce surveillance.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report and i repeat that i am a contracting party to the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the import of atlantic bluefin tuna, because it provides for a ban on imports from countries suspected of infringing international rules and standards on the protection and sustainable management of this tuna variety.
in writing. - the repeal of regulation (ec) no 827/2004 banning the import of atlantic bigeye tuna (thunnus obesus) originating in bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone puts an end to a regulation dating back to the 1990s. the eu imposed the import ban because the vessels of these countries did not comply with the necessary and appropriate rules with the fishing standards of the european area. since these countries have changed the type and dimensions of the flag of the vessel and have now followed community standards, i see no reason why this ban should not be lifted.
in writing. - in 1998, iccat adopted a resolution identifying bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone as countries whose vessels fish for atlantic bigeye tuna (thunnus obesus) in a manner that reduces the effectiveness of their conservation and management measures, substantiating its conclusions with data on catches, trade and vessel activities. iccat therefore recommended that the countries concerned take measures to prohibit the import of atlantic bluefin tuna and products thereof from the above mentioned countries. in view of the efforts made by the five countries, iccat recommended reversing the previous decision and re-authorising the import of bigeye tuna and its products into the eu. we voted yes.
in writing. - in 1998, iccat identified bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone as countries whose fishing fleets were catching atlantic bigeye tuna in a way that was detrimental to the effectiveness of conservation and resource management measures, and recommended a ban on imports of this species and its products from these countries, which was adopted in regulation (ec) no 827/2004. subsequently, iccat recognised the efforts made by cambodia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone and suggested the repeal of those trade restrictive measures, which was adopted in regulation (ec) no 919/2005. subsequently, iccat also recognised the efforts and measures taken by bolivia and georgia and supported the lifting of the import ban imposed on those countries, making it necessary to repeal regulation (ec) no 827/2004 as amended by regulation (ec) no 919/2005. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be evidence that the application of effective bans and trade sanctions to countries which do not comply with the internationally established rules in the field of fisheries is the best way of forcing them to correct their procedures and to align themselves with the codes of good practice required of the fishing fleet at global level.
in writing. - the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccaa) has identified bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone as countries whose vessels engage in bluefin tuna fishing activities that do not meet conservation efficiency requirements and management measures. however, the iccat has taken measures to suspend imports of bigeye tuna from bolivia and georgia, taking into account the behaviour of those two countries. the proposal therefore seeks to transpose this icao decision into union law and thus repeal regulation (ec) no 827/2004, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by emphasizing that the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and gabon should promote, in the medium term, the exploitation by gabon of its own fisheries resources, both for internal consumption, in accordance with the needs of its population, and for export, increasing the added value of fishing activities. it can thus contribute to increasing the share of the wealth generated that stays in the country. the landing rules are still a long way off from this objective. it is necessary to promote the creation of conditions enabling the operation of the port and tuna processing facilities, pursuing the objective of making it possible to land catches taken in gabonese waters in gabonese ports. i believe that up-to-date scientific data on fish stocks and overall fishing effort in gabonese waters is essential to ensure sustainable fishing. i believe that this agreement should contribute to the creation of a scientific database on this subject.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report and reiterate my commitment to verifying the principles necessary for the correct absorption of aid, in respect of gabon's sovereignty and its legitimate choices and priorities.
in writing. - the european union and gabon initialled a new protocol to the eu-gabon partnership agreement on 24 april 2013. the protocol will last for three years and will allow the european fleet to fish once again in the waters of that african country. this protocol will strengthen cooperation between the two parties, particularly in their fight against illegal fishing. both parties undertook to comply fully with all recommendations made by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the protocol also includes a clause on respect for human rights.
in writing. - the report approves the conclusion of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the gabonese republic. we consider the rapporteur's views on the balanced and proper application of the protocol to be of great importance. therefore, in order to avoid interruptions in the payments due by the eu to gabon under sectoral support, it is considered necessary to increase the eu's efforts to verify the principles necessary for the correct absorption of the aid, in respect of gabon's sovereignty and legitimate choices and priorities. in the medium term, the agreement should also promote the exploitation by gabon of its own fisheries resources, both for domestic consumption, in line with the needs of its population, and for export, thereby increasing the added value of fisheries activities and thereby increasing the share of the wealth generated that remains in the country. the rapporteur also stresses that parliament must be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the protocol or its renewal.
in writing. - the approval of this new protocol, which will last for three years, will provide fishing opportunities for 35 french and spanish vessels in the waters of this african country. the fishing opportunities for surface longliners provided for in the previous protocol were not renewed due to their low level of use. the annual financial contribution to be paid by the eu to gabon for the possibility of fishing for tuna and other highly migratory species is eur 1.35 million, of which eur 450 000 will be used to support the development of the sectoral fisheries policy in gabon. this new protocol will help to develop the fisheries sector in gabon, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this report aims at the establishment of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of gabon. after a break of about two years, due to gabon's non-acceptance of two clauses required by the eu (human rights and conditionality of sectoral support), negotiations were resumed and concluded in accordance with the conditions required by the eu. the protocol to this tuna fisheries agreement covers a period of three years and provides for an annual financial contribution of eur 1.35 million (eur 450 000 per year for gabonese sectoral development) for an annual reference tonnage of 20 000 tonnes and fishing opportunities for 27 purse seiners and 8 pole-and-line tuna vessels. contrary to the general tone agreements, fishing opportunities for surface longliners were not renewed, but instead fishing licences were allocated by hook and line, to be allocated according to the interests of the member states' fleets. i voted in favour of this report because i consider the protocol to be balanced and mutually beneficial, allowing the return of the european fleet to gabonese waters and strengthening the eu's strategic presence in this region of the west african coast.
in the light of the recent developments in the gulf, the european union and the gabonese republic have agreed to a new protocol on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the gabonese republic. it will last for three years and will enable the european fleet to resume fishing in gabonese waters. the protocol provides fishing opportunities for tuna and other migratory species for the union. in return, the union will have to pay an annual compensation of € 1 350 000, of which € 450 000 will be used to support the fisheries policy of the gabonese republic. since the new protocol will strengthen cooperation between the parties and will improve the control of fishing activities, i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by pointing out that the introduction of articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu radically changes the old comitology system. i would also recall that all institutions are subject to the principle of legality and that the application of the model of delegated acts referred to in article 290 tfeu or of implementing acts referred to in article 291 tfeu is not a matter of political choice. on the contrary, the choice between the two types of act should be based on the criteria set out in the said articles of the treaty and, in the opinion of the rapporteur, it should be clear that this proposal for a decision should apply the provisions of article 290 tfeu. the application of this article implies the delegation to the commission of the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of the present proposal for a decision. for this reason, i am in favour of a series of amendments which aim to make it perfectly clear that the implementing acts to this decision will be delegated acts, under the criteria set out in article 290 tfeu.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report and i recognise the geostrategic position of greenland in the arctic region, ensuring the strengthening of cooperation and strategic dialogue on issues of mutual interest.
in writing. - the 2006 joint declaration between the eu, greenland and denmark set out the common objectives of the partnership and was the political basis for council decision 2006/526/ec which set out the framework for cooperation between the parties for the period 2007-2013. a new proposal for a council decision on a framework for cooperation between the parties for 2014-2020 is now necessary. taking into account the increasing geostrategic importance of greenland and the arctic region for the eu, as well as the structural fragility of greenland, a new instrument seems to be fully justified. the new partnership should facilitate consultation and political dialogue on common objectives and areas of cooperation, especially on issues such as energy, climate change and the environment and natural resources. eu financial support to greenland for the period 2014-2020 should be focused on a limited number of areas of cooperation. any cooperation in the area of exploration, extraction and exploitation of greenland's natural resources shall respect the highest safety, social and environmental standards. issues concerning the arctic should include the participation of the european union as a permanent observer in the arctic council.
in writing. - eu financial support should be directed primarily at programmes for the human and social development of greenland, to the detriment of the economic development of the territory, given that the great development opportunities in the exploration and exploitation of its natural resources, particularly gas and oil, will surely attract the necessary private investment or european investment bank loans, and no public capital injection is necessary. greenland has a deficit in the level of education and vocational training of its population, young people lack adequate educational and vocational guidance and the school dropout rate is high. eu funds should be channelled to address this shortfall. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the proposal for a council decision on relations between the european union on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark on the other, which is the subject of this report, sets out the framework for cooperation between the parties for the period 2014-2020 and will replace council decision 2006/526/ec, which covers the period 2006-2013. fisheries, which are of great importance to greenland in terms of the weight of exports of fish and fishery products in its trade balance, are not included in the council decisions as they are covered by an eu-greenland fisheries partnership agreement. this decision, based on the text and results of the previous decision, contributes to the strengthening of the excellent relations which currently exist between the european union, on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, on the other. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i know . council decision 2006/526/ec covering the union's relations with greenland and the kingdom of denmark expired in december 2013 and this report presents the new partnership period 2014-2020. greenland, with its status as an overseas territory, has a territory with incalculable resources. for these reasons, this partnership should take into account the sustainable exploitation and study of these resources. education and vocational training is another priority of the union through the greenland education programme, which is a 14-year strategy. at the same time, financial support should be directed more towards social and human programmes, and not just to the exploration and exploitation of natural resources, particularly gas and oil, which in themselves attract private investment. the european commission therefore wishes to see its cooperation extended to its participation as an observer member of the arctic council. i am voting in favour of renewing this partnership agreement.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that information is essential for the prevention and mitigation of natural or man-made disasters. i believe that closer collaboration between member states and the private sector is advisable in order to provide citizens with relevant information about the risks they face. i believe that the european union and national authorities can promote good practice and responsible individual behaviour in relation to the prevention and mitigation of disaster risks. i therefore welcome support for campaigns to improve citizens' awareness of the risks of natural disasters and their knowledge of geography and climate. i would also stress that involving local authorities and stakeholders in land-use planning and urban planning decisions could improve management and response in the event of natural disasters.
in writing. - this report is parliament's contribution to the debate on the green paper on insurance against natural or man-made disasters. it emphasises that prevention is the best way for people to protect themselves and thus avoid losses caused by unforeseen events. it calls for the eu to play an active role in developing a more responsible society and to be more aware of the risks that may arise from human activity and the natural hazards it faces. member states should publish clear and accurate data to help individuals and businesses to purchase such insurance. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the eu and national authorities can create visible added value by encouraging responsible individual behaviour and sharing good practice on risk prevention and mitigation between member states and at regional level, and i welcome the support for campaigns to improve citizens' awareness of the risks of natural disasters and their knowledge of geography and climate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on insurance against natural or man-made disasters, because it stresses the importance of developing a culture of prevention, of promoting the sharing of good practice between member states and of raising awareness and providing information to citizens in order to support their decisions to take out insurance against disasters.
in writing. - storms, forest fires, floods and landslides are some of the main natural disaster risks facing europe. it is increasingly important that european citizens protect themselves and their property against such possibilities and that they are encouraged to do so by the member states themselves. that is why i think this report is important and i support it.
in the light of the above, i would ask the commission to consider whether it is appropriate to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the community, and in particular the member states, in the light of the fact that the directive is not yet in force. this report emphasises that prevention is the best way to protect people and avoid losses caused by unexpected events. it called for the eu to play an active role in developing a more responsible society, with a culture of prevention and a greater awareness of the risks that may arise from human activity and the natural hazards it faces. it also concludes that there are no market distortions in this type of insurance that justify eu intervention and considers that solutions should be tailored to the specific cases, taking into account the type of risk involved, cultural aspects and other specificities of each member state. i am voting in favour of this text which calls on the member states to publish clear and accurate data to support the decisions of consumers, communities and businesses when purchasing insurance against this type of insurance.
in writing. - this report acknowledges that the increase in the number of natural disasters is largely due to the destruction of the environment resulting from the current policies and the economic model (the report does not mention it but we do: capitalism) followed by the eu. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the report expresses only concern about the disparity between member states in catastrophe risks, as they are not adequately reflected in the private insurance. the concerns are therefore limited to the profits of insurance companies, which are recognized here as not having the expected sales success, and it is therefore necessary to stimulate the supply, competition between insurance and encourage the purchase of these products. the economic model that has caused the succession of natural disasters and environmental degradation is therefore emphasized, as is the dismantling of state services with the responsibility to protect citizens, particularly the most vulnerable and/or those affected by disasters that in many cases they had no way to avoid.
in writing. - natural disasters negatively affect both households and businesses. the adoption of this report on natural disaster insurance calls for the creation of incentives by member states to encourage citizens to protect themselves and their property against damage. storms, forest fires, floods and landslides are some of the main natural disaster risks facing europe. insurers need to clarify contracts with consumers and provide information on the options available and the impact on cover prices to ensure an appropriate choice for the consumer. the risk manager should be able to understand the type of cover and how it works when the risks materialise. the insurance market must be made more transparent and efficient in this area, and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on insurance against natural and man-made disasters, in which parliament defends prevention and information as the most important factor for protecting people and preventing damage caused by unforeseen events, and draws attention to the role of the european union in developing a more responsible society, paying greater attention to precautionary measures, and creating a culture of prevention that raises citizens' awareness of both natural and man-made risks.
in writing. - this owninitiative report notes that the frequency and damage of natural disasters are increasingly devastating, causing enormous damage to society in general. every day we hear in the media that a region of the union has once again been ravaged by fire, floods, heavy rains, sea storms. the great concern is how we should prepare the infrastructure and the planning so that the consequences and the material and non-material damage are increasingly reduced. the union solidarity fund already provides financial support in some very specific cases of bad weather, but each member state must ensure a transparent and fair market in disaster insurance. since there is no one-size-fits-all approach to this, because the level of risk, culture and other external factors differ from one country to another, i am in favour of the approach of this report.
in writing. - i approve the ecb's proposal to appoint sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the ecb for a five-year term. my approval is based on the assessment already carried out by the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament of the proposed candidate's credentials and established requirements in terms of the proposed candidate's curriculum vitae, as well as her responses to a written questionnaire.
- at its january 2014 plenary session, the european parliament approved the appointment of ms sabine lautenschläger to the executive board of the european central bank (ecb). on 21 january 2014 sabine lautenschläger was appointed by the european council as a member of the executive board of the ecb, and on 22 january the ecb submitted to the ep a proposal for the appointment of sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the ecb for approval. it stated that its main objectives were to establish a strong single supervisory mechanism with integrated and centralised supervision at the ecb. the commission also stressed the need to ensure that the european monetary system is fully operational and that the european monetary system is fully operational. sabine lautenschläger has extensive experience in the area of banking supervision in an international environment, as well as working in the field of banking and monetary affairs. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the name of sabine lautenschläger was approved at the last plenary session so that this former employee of the bundesbank (german central bank) could become a member of the executive board of the european central bank (ecb). on 21 january 2014, the european council appointed ms sabine as a member of the executive board of the ecb. on 22 january the ecb submitted to parliament a proposal for the appointment of sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the ecb for a five-year term. sabine lautenschläger has extensive experience in the area of banking supervision in an international environment, as well as working in the field of banking and monetary affairs. it stated that the main objectives were to establish a strong single supervisory mechanism with integrated and centralised supervision at the ecb and executed by a highly qualified supervisory team. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in view of the experience, main concerns and skills of this candidate, i support her nomination and vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i wish sabine lautenschläger every success in the important task for which she is appointed, and i am convinced that she will carry out the duties for which she is now appointed with all the dedication and competence.
in writing. - the european central bank has proposed the appointment of sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank. this new body has recently been set up and will be responsible for the important area of european banking supervision, with the main task of preventing further crises in the banking sector. only with good supervision can we avoid further failures in this sector in the future, failures which lead to serious financial crises, which in turn lead to sovereign debt crises, and which ultimately lead to severe austerity measures affecting european citizens. the candidate must have her appointment approved by the european parliament, which, through its committee on economic and monetary affairs, will hold a hearing to assess her profile for the post she will hold. the commission has assessed positively the credentials of ms sabine lautenschläger and considers that she is suited to the post she will hold. i leave you with my best wishes for the success of mrs sabine lautenschläger in the difficult task that lies ahead of her.
in writing. - this report is based on the proposal of the european central bank for the appointment of a vice-president of the european central bank. the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament has assessed the credentials of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the requirements laid down. in addition to the assessment made on the basis of the candidate's curriculum vitae and her responses to a written questionnaire, the competent commission heard the candidate and, following that hearing, issued an opinion approving the ecb's nomination of sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the ecb. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - article 26 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013 provides that the european central bank (ecb) shall submit to parliament for approval a proposal for the appointment of the vice-chair of its supervisory board, who shall be selected from among the members of the executive board of the ecb; i am voting in favour of the appointment because he has shown in the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament that he has the necessary credentials to perform the new role and has responded quite satisfactorily to meps in the various oral and written interactions that have taken place.
in writing. - i approve this report, and i would like to start by welcoming this innovative agreement between the european union and switzerland. switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and the second largest recipient of foreign direct investment. economies are closely integrated and many anti-competitive practices affect cross-border trade. i believe that the implementation of the agreement will be facilitated by the similarity between the standards and practices in force in the european union and switzerland at this level. the european union should learn from this experience and proceed to conclude other second-generation agreements with other partners, based on common practices and standards. i also support international cooperation in the enforcement of competition rules. in a world of globalised companies and global value chains, anti-competitive practices such as abuse of a dominant market position or cartels constitute serious non-tariff barriers to trade. in this context, efforts should be redoubled to promote international cooperation in combating anti-competitive practices for the regulation of foreign trade and investment.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the competition rules to the swiss competition authorities. this agreement is more comprehensive than some previously concluded with other countries such as the us or canada, including clauses on the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities when investigating the same case, which will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law. it will regulate the way in which information is transmitted, discussed and used by the contracting parties. switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and the similarity of eu and swiss standards and practices will facilitate the agreed cooperation. i welcome this agreement and i vote in favour of this report, which reflects the efforts to promote international cooperation in the fight against anti-competitive practices for the regulation of trade and foreign investment between the eu and switzerland. this is a step forward in creating a level playing field and promoting more prosperous and fairer markets.
in writing. - following the conclusion of cooperation agreements on competition with the united states of america, canada, japan and south korea, the commission has now concluded a first second generation agreement with switzerland, the eu's third largest economic partner. given the strong link between the eu and swiss economies, anticompetitive practices affect crossborder trade, with a detrimental effect on the internal market. the conclusion of this agreement, which unlike its predecessors, includes clauses on the exchange of evidence obtained by the competition authorities when investigating the same case, is therefore to be welcomed, and will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the competition rules to the swiss competition authorities. this agreement is more comprehensive than some previously concluded with other countries such as the us or canada, including clauses on the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities when investigating the same case, which will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law. it will regulate the way in which information is transmitted, discussed and used by the contracting parties. switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and the similarity of eu and swiss standards and practices will facilitate the agreed cooperation. i welcome this agreement and i vote in favour of this report, which reflects the efforts to promote international cooperation in the fight against anti-competitive practices for the regulation of trade and foreign investment between the eu and switzerland. this is a step forward in creating a level playing field and promoting more prosperous and fairer markets.
in writing. - this is a recommendation to approve and welcome the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of competition law, which also includes clauses on the exchange of evidence obtained by the competition authorities when investigating the same case, which could contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law. as the eu's third largest economic partner and second largest recipient of foreign direct investment, switzerland's economies are closely integrated and many anti-competitive practices affect cross-border trade. the implementation of the agreement will be facilitated by the similarity of the standards and practices in force in the eu and switzerland. the rapporteur advocates international cooperation in the enforcement of competition rules against anti-competitive practices such as abuse of a dominant position or cartels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws, in which parliament welcomes this innovative agreement between the eu and switzerland. switzerland is the union's third largest economic partner and the second largest recipient of foreign direct investment. economies are closely integrated and many anti-competitive practices affect cross-border trade. the implementation of the agreement will be facilitated by the similarity of the standards and practices in force in the eu and switzerland. the eu should learn from this experience and proceed to conclude other second generation agreements with other partners, although this may be hampered by the existence of divergent standards and practices.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. economies are closely integrated and many anti-competitive practices affect cross-border trade. i am in favour of this agreement which, unlike the previous ones, includes clauses on the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities when investigating the same case, thus contributing to more effective enforcement of competition law. in a world of globalised companies and global value chains, anti-competitive practices, such as abuse of a dominant position or cartels, also constitute non-tariff barriers to trade. i also stress as extremely positive the fact that there is greater international cooperation in the enforcement of the competition rules.
in writing. - this is a recommendation to approve and welcome the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of competition laws, which also includes clauses on the exchange of evidence obtained by the competition authorities when investigating the same case. as the eu's third largest economic partner and second largest recipient of foreign direct investment, switzerland's economies are closely integrated. the implementation of the agreement will be facilitated by the similarity of the standards and practices in force in the eu and switzerland. the rapporteur defends international cooperation in the enforcement of competition rules against what he considers anti-competitive practices. we do not follow this view of the market.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that it is necessary to conclude such an agreement with switzerland. among other reasons, switzerland is of great importance in terms of its geostrategic location to the european union. the presence of several union companies in switzerland and vice versa, as well as the several parallel investigations carried out by both jurisdictions in the recent past, are also important reasons for concluding a cooperation agreement in this context. i regret, however, that the agreement does not impose legally binding obligations as regards cooperation and leaves a wide margin of appreciation, particularly in view of the important interests which either party may invoke as justification for not complying with a request from the other party. i therefore call on the commission and the swiss authorities responsible for the mutual cooperation between the national competition authorities of the european union and the swiss competition commission to reach an agreement based on full and fair cooperation.
in the case of the swiss, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in the member states. the aim is to facilitate cooperation between the eu and swiss competition authorities. the agreement includes clauses on the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities, which will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law. the way in which information is transmitted, discussed and used by the contracting parties is also regulated. international cooperation in the fight against anti-competitive practices is promoted, which will help to improve trade and foreign direct investment between the european union and switzerland. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it is essential to ensure a reasonable degree of similarity between the competition law regimes involved and to ensure that information transmitted by the eu cannot be used to impose custodial sentences on individuals, if this is the option adopted at eu level.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the application of the competition rules to the various categories of undertakings is not in itself sufficient to ensure that the conditions for the application of the competition rules are met. the eu should therefore strengthen and give increased priority to strengthening the competition policy strand of free trade agreements.
in writing. - this resolution by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy affirms the need for cooperation and coordination between the authorities responsible for competition policy, with regard to the need to combat infringements of competition laws, and the transition to a more sophisticated and binding type of cooperation in the long term, as international cartels and infringement cases become increasingly global in scale. while agreeing with certain aspects of the resolution, particularly as regards transparency and the fight against cartels, we think it falls far short of expectations, failing to explain that the deepening of liberalization in basic sectors which are essential for the improvement of the people's living conditions has consequences for employment, prices and people's lives. in the name of competition, only the profits of economic and financial groups are defended. and it always forgets that the so-called free competition only gives the big companies the freedom to crush the small ones, and then the workers, consumers and small businessmen suffer the consequences.
in writing. - the proposed agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws is very important. such cooperation agreements on competition policy implementation are very positive in an increasingly globalised economic context, where cartels operate across borders and mergers often involve several jurisdictions. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament welcomes the proposed agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws (hereinafter referred to as 'the agreement') and considers such cooperation agreements on the enforcement of competition policy to be very positive in an increasingly globalised economic context, where cartels operate across borders and mergers of companies often involve several jurisdictions. parliament considered that such an agreement with switzerland was necessary, given the importance of switzerland's strategic geographical location for the eu.
in the light of the above, i would ask the commission to consider whether it is appropriate to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the community. the text stresses the importance of ensuring that the procedural guarantees given to the parties in their respective legal systems are respected, calling for the creation of a platform for the transmission of confidential information the protection of personal data and business secrecy must be fully guaranteed. however, it is regrettable that this agreement does not lay down binding obligations with regard to cooperation, leaving a wide margin for interpretation, since reference is made to important interests, which can be invoked by either party as justification for any non-compliance. member states and their national competition authorities are encouraged to cooperate fully with the commission to ensure that the agreement is effectively applied. the commission should, in turn, promote cooperation on competition policy through multilateral fora such as the world trade organisation, the international competition network and the organisation for economic cooperation and development.
in writing. - this resolution, tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, stresses the need for cooperation and coordination between the authorities responsible for competition policy, in what it considers necessary to combat infringements of competition laws. while agreeing with certain aspects of the resolution, particularly as regards transparency and the fight against cartels, we think it falls far short of expectations, failing to explain that the deepening of liberalization in basic sectors which are essential for the improvement of the people's living conditions has consequences for employment, prices and people's lives. in the name of competition, only the profits of economic and financial groups are defended. and it is always forgotten that the free competition which is advocated only gives the big companies the freedom to crush the small economic agents. the workers, consumers and small business owners are the ones who suffer. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve of the present report, although i regret the gaps and the limited scope of the treaty and the vague wording of several of its provisions on arms trade, which leaves room for interpretation. i therefore believe that efforts can now be focused on ensuring full implementation of the treaty by the countries that have ratified it, including, where necessary, the provision of assistance to developing countries. i also believe that a rapid ratification by all the member states of the european union will send an important message to non-member countries which have not yet ratified, such as the united states of america, about the urgency of moving forward with this initiative. although the european union cannot sign and ratify the treaty as a single entity, but rather each member state individually, the european commission has been mandated by the council to negotiate some of the provisions of the arms trade treaty which are the exclusive competence of the union, falling within the scope of trade policy. i therefore urge all member states to ratify it as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report so that the european parliament has a scrutinising role in the implementation of both the arms trade treaty and the 2008 common position on the export of military technology and equipment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the authorization of eu countries to ratify the arms trade treaty. the european commission estimates that more than 740 000 women and children die every year as a result of the illegal arms trade. this treaty could make an important contribution to reducing the number of victims.
in writing. - unlike weapons of mass destruction and landmines, the trade in conventional weapons is not the subject of any global legally binding instrument. the arms trade treaty (att) aims to fill this gap. after lengthy negotiations, the arms trade treaty was adopted on 2 april 2013 by a resolution of the united nations general assembly. three states voted against the treaty (north korea, iran and syria) and 22 abstained (including china, india and russia, which could result in slow ratification and possible incomplete implementation in these three countries). while existing european regulations on conventional arms exports have been used as best practice during the un negotiations, european regulations set much higher standards and have a wider scope than the att. the proposal is designed to allow member states to ratify the treaty in respect of matters falling within the exclusive competence of the union. this decision does not cover those elements of the arms trade treaty which could fall within the union's competence in the framework of the cfsp.
in writing. - unlike weapons of mass destruction and landmines, the trade in conventional weapons is not the subject of any global legally binding instrument. the arms trade treaty (att) aims to fill this gap. the arms trade treaty establishes a common international standard for the regulation of international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, in munitions, related parts and components. the treaty also aims to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in such weapons. let us hope that the countries which have not acceded to this treaty, namely north korea, iran and syria, will do so later.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the arms trade is not subject to any global legally binding instrument. the arms trade treaty (att) aims to fill this gap. after lengthy negotiations, the arms trade treaty was adopted on 2 april 2013 by a resolution of the united nations general assembly. this treaty establishes a common international standard for the regulation of international trade in conventional arms and, to a certain extent, in munitions, related parts and components. the treaty also aims to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in such weapons. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of this recommendation on the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interests of the european union, the arms trade treaty.
in writing. - the united nations arms trade treaty aims to regulate the international trade in conventional arms and to eliminate the illicit arms trade. the treaty also requires parties to control exports of conventional arms to ensure that they are not used for terrorist purposes or in violation of human rights. since the union is not a party to the united nations arms trade treaty, the council will adopt a decision authorising the member states to ratify the said treaty as regards matters falling within the exclusive competence of the union, and the european parliament, with my positive vote, has shown a favourable position to this.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by stressing that the long-term success of the arms trade treaty regime depends on the participation of as many countries as possible, including the main actors in the field of the international arms trade. it is welcome that most of the member states of the united nations have already signed the treaty. i urge other member states to follow suit and ratify the same as soon as possible. i urge the european external action service to add to its objectives in external affairs and to the set of subjects to be included in bilateral agreements a call for third countries to accede to the treaty in question. at the same time, however, i stress that illegal or unregulated arms transfers cause human suffering and fuel armed conflict, instability, terrorist attacks and corruption with consequences for socioeconomic development, violation of democratic order and the rule of law, human rights law and international humanitarian law.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because the european union has increased responsibilities in this area, not only because it is a pioneer in adopting a mandatory system for monitoring the trade and transfer of arms, military equipment and technology to third countries (the common position adopted in 2008), but also because there is still much to be done between member states to ensure transparency and compliance with publicity in the arms trade.
in writing. - at a time when the arms race is being revived, with increased military spending and investment in new weapons by the us, nato and the eu - with the hypocritical talk of their reduction - this resolution underlines the importance of this and other arms reduction treaties. the resolution raises concerns about the vagueness of definitions and the need for member states to apply more precise and restrictive legislation to combat arms trafficking and their use by organised crime or other criminal activities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we cannot but stress that the regulation of the import, export and transfer of arms will be all the more relevant if it is accompanied by a process of multilateral and reciprocal disarmament, in particular the dismantling of the huge existing nuclear arsenals, starting with the world's largest nuclear powers - such as the usa - and the complete destruction of chemical and biological weapons.
in writing. - the conclusion of the negotiations on this treaty under the auspices of the united nations after seven years of protracted negotiations was important. it is a legally binding arms trade treaty, dealing with the international trade in conventional arms. i hope that this treaty will establish common international regulatory standards, with the highest possible level of demand, for the international trade in conventional arms in order to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in conventional arms, with the aim of contributing to peace, security and stability at international and regional level. effective implementation of the treaty could make a significant contribution to greater respect for human rights and international humanitarian law throughout the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament welcomes the conclusion, under the auspices of the united nations, after seven years of slow negotiations, of a legally binding arms trade treaty on the international trade in conventional arms and recalls that this treaty aims to establish common international regulatory standards, with the highest possible level of rigor, for the international trade in conventional arms and to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in conventional arms, with the aim of contributing to international and regional peace, security and stability and to the reduction of human suffering. in fact, the effective implementation of the treaty could make a significant contribution to greater respect for human rights and international humanitarian law throughout the world, and i welcome the considerable contribution of civil society organisations throughout the process leading to the adoption of the arms trade treaty.
in writing. - parliament welcomed the conclusion, under the auspices of the united nations, after seven years of protracted negotiations, of a legally binding arms trade treaty, which deals with the international trade in conventional arms. considering that the treaty will contribute to preventing and eradicating the illicit trade in conventional arms, to peace, security and stability at international and regional level and to the reduction of human suffering as well as to greater respect for human rights and international humanitarian law throughout the world, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the resolution under discussion underlines the importance of this and other arms reduction treaties. it raises concerns about the vagueness of definitions and the need for member states to apply more precise and restrictive legislation to combat arms trafficking and their use by organised crime or other criminal activities. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat money laundering, tax havens and offshore financial centres, where the profits from arms and other trafficking are channelled. it does not condemn the relaunching of the arms race, with increased military spending and investment in new weapons by the us, nato and the eu. we stress that the regulation of arms imports, exports and transfers will be all the more effective if accompanied by a process of multilateral and reciprocal disarmament, including the dismantling of existing nuclear arsenals, starting with the world's largest nuclear powers such as the usa, and the complete destruction of chemical and biological weapons.
in writing. - i approve of this report, given that the commission proposes to eliminate the rule of the lower duty in anti-dumping cases where there are structural distortions at the level of raw materials and in all anti-subsidy cases, on the grounds that such elimination will improve the effectiveness of the instruments. however, it remains difficult to define where this conclusion arises. in accordance with the wto, dumping per se is not illegal, only dumping that causes injury is considered illegal. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. in addition, the lack of a precise definition of structural distortions at the raw material level may prove problematic. the commission has so far not put forward a uniform definition, which has led to speculation. it has been suggested that the definition should be determined on an ad hoc basis, but labour and energy costs should be included in this concept.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because trade defence instruments are not protectionism, they are free and fair trade. the union has an obligation to defend the european industry against dumping or subsidies by its external competitors. the effectiveness of the trade defence system is essential and this modernisation exercise, as it is called, should be an exercise in strengthening fair competition in international trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to making the eu's customs instruments more effective, helping to defend against dumped imports or subsidies imposed by third countries. this proposal will also reduce the threat of retaliation by third countries and increase the transparency and predictability of imports.
in writing. - the proposal we are voting on today aims to modernise the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations and involves four key changes: (i) the elimination of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where there are structural distortions at the level of raw materials and in all anti-subsidy cases; (ii) the obligation for union producers to cooperate in ex officio investigations; (iii) the reimbursement of duties collected during expiry reviews; and (iv) the two-week notice in relation to the introduction of provisional duties, commonly referred to as the transport clause. those amendments are intended to increase the effectiveness of the instruments, reduce the threat of retaliation by third countries and increase transparency and predictability.
in writing. - this proposal aims to modernise the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations and implies four key changes: the elimination of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where there are structural distortions at the level of raw materials and in all anti-subsidy cases, the obligation for union producers to cooperate in ex officio investigations, the reimbursement of duties collected during expiry reviews and the notification two weeks in advance of the introduction of provisional duties, commonly referred to as the transport clause. the justification is based on three objectives: to increase the effectiveness of the instruments, to reduce the threat of retaliation by third countries and to increase transparency and predictability.
in writing. - this report continues the mercantile and neoliberal line to which parliament has already accustomed us. once again, it is more fundamentalist than the commission itself in terms of trade liberalisation and the wto rules. the report advocates trade liberalisation and the principle of reciprocity and the imposition of retaliatory measures. the whole logic of this is competition for market shares in the name of competition. not a logic of cooperation, where trade has a role to play in development, but it is not everything. although the report does not accompany our proposals for trade to promote a more equitable development of the countries, at the moment this is the only existing mechanism of defence against dumped imports, necessary to protect, above all, portuguese small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the effects of the gatt agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. countries like portugal are very much affected by these practices. the adoption of this regulation will help to combat this practice, which is very damaging to the eu economy. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the commission proposal based on this report aims to modernise the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations and implies four core changes: 1) the elimination of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where there are structural distortions at the level of raw materials and in all anti-subsidy cases, 2) the obligation for union producers to cooperate in ex officio investigations, 3) the reimbursement of duties collected during expiry reviews and 4) the notification two weeks in advance of the introduction of provisional duties, commonly referred to as the transport clause. these amendments are based on three objectives: to increase the effectiveness of the instruments, to reduce the threat of retaliation by third countries and to increase transparency and predictability. parliament welcomes these objectives and believes that they should be combined in order to maintain public confidence in the instruments. in fact, effectiveness, reducing the threat of retaliation, transparency and predictability are admirable objectives which, when combined, ensure public confidence in the instrument and parliament has therefore proposed strengthening these objectives wherever possible.
in writing. - the present proposal aims to improve predictability for companies by informing them of any provisional anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures two weeks before the imposition of duties and of non-application of provisional duties during this period. in addition, it is intended to reimburse importers for duties received before the expiry review if it is concluded that the continuation of trade defence measures is not necessary after five years. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that i agree in general terms with the commission's proposals. however, it should be noted that these proposals were assessed with the view that the delegated powers will be subject to ex post control by the european parliament and the council and that the choices made in this report would be different if the control were not effective and efficient. the european commission must therefore take into account the need to ensure the safety of seafarers when adopting acts, and choose the least complex scenario in terms of procedures and the most cost-effective one, in accordance with the three pillars of sustainable development. the report also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the measures necessary to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. the report shall describe the acts adopted during that period and assess their effectiveness in relation to the objectives of the regulation and the common fisheries policy. i agree with this action insofar as it ensures that monitoring is carried out in a fair way, for example by using comparative indicators in the member states.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it is particularly important that during the preparatory work the commission should consult appropriately, including experts such as the regional advisory councils. the commission, when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the regulation on compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy, since it will make it possible to adapt the provisions of this regulation in the light of the lisbon treaty, ensuring effective control of its application by the european parliament.
in writing. - like my colleague, the rapporteur, i too think that the european commission's proposal on monitoring compliance with the european rules on the common fisheries policy is a good proposal. i also believe that the european commission should be concerned about the safety of seafarers, choose the least complex scenario in terms of procedures and the most cost-effective one, and respect the three pillars of sustainable development.
in writing. - as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission for the application of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 should be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the rapporteur, while accepting the commission's position, proposes amendments to limit the powers conferred on the commission. in addition to limiting the delegation of powers to the commission for a period of three years, the rapporteur amends certain articles contained in delegated acts to implementing acts. the rapporteur therefore limits the commission's powers in terms of traceability and landing declaration requirements, so that the articles in question can be better adapted to the practical realities of everyday fishing. despite our opposition to the lisbon treaty and what it represents, we believe that the rapporteur's amendments improve the text proposed by the commission.
in writing. - this report aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community regime for monitoring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy (cfp), in the light of the changes in the comitology resulting from the treaty of lisbon and the new distribution of legal powers and the reorganisation of the powers of the european institutions. this requires the harmonisation of european legislation, which implies the choice and allocation of the legal instruments established in a hierarchical manner by the treaty, namely implementing acts, which are essentially technical in nature; delegated acts, which allow the european commission a margin of appreciation; and the codecision procedure, which is a more political procedure. this realignment of powers and competences requires increased vigilance by the council and the european parliament, which must limit the attribution of legal acts and exercise regular and effective control over their application. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the rapporteur's proposals contribute to effective compliance with the cfp rules, maintaining a reasonable balance in the distribution of these powers and competences, without, however, compromising the spirit of the legislative acts, and limiting the delegation of powers to the european commission for a period of three years.
- the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, introduced a new division of powers. the purpose of this document is to harmonise this reorganisation of responsibilities in an effective manner. the rapporteur makes the necessary adjustments to bring the text into line with the treaties, while respecting the powers conferred on the european commission but safeguarding effective control by the european parliament. new powers of ex-post control shall be conferred on parliament when the procedure provided for in delegated acts is chosen. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - i approve this report because i consider this alignment of nine product directives with the nqf an important step towards the completion of the european single market. the nqf introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards which help to improve the functioning of the single market. ensuring equitable treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators and equitable assessment of notified bodies throughout the european union market. i also support the commission's overall intention to bring the nine product directives into line with the horizontal measures. i would suggest, however, some amendments to the directive on protective equipment and systems for use in potentially explosive atmospheres, for further clarification and sectoral adjustments.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report because it ensures a consistent level of quality in conformity assessment, and it is also necessary to lay down requirements to be met by the notifying authorities and other bodies involved in the assessment, notification and monitoring of notified bodies.
in writing. - this report amends a proposal for a recast of the european commission directive 94/9/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to protective equipment and systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. that proposal was submitted in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nql) adopted in 2008 as the merchandise package, which covers the complementary instruments decision no 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, repealing council decision 93/465/eec, and regulation (ec) no 765/2008 laying down accreditation and market surveillance requirements for the marketing of products, repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the proposal is part of a package which aligns the texts of nine product directives with the new legislative framework (nql). the current directive 94/9/ec on protective equipment and systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres sets out the essential requirements and selects the conformity assessment procedures to be applied by manufacturers in order to prove that their products comply with those essential requirements before they are made available on the eu market.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to harmonize protective equipment and systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres and safety, control and regulation devices intended for use outside potentially explosive atmospheres but which are necessary for or contribute to the safe operation of protective equipment and systems with regard to the risks of explosion. the main objective of this (recast) proposal is to ensure legal certainty, increase consumer protection, improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and ensure better market surveillance for products. member states may lay down such requirements as they consider necessary to ensure the protection of persons and in particular of workers using such products. we voted yes.
in writing. - the current directive on protective equipment and systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres sets out the essential requirements and selects the conformity assessment procedures to be applied by manufacturers in order to prove that their products comply with these essential requirements before they are made available on the eu market. the new legislative framework was adopted to fill in gaps in existing legislation with a view to completing the single market with fair competition and safe products. inconsistent implementation and enforcement of current union harmonisation by member states, as well as the existence of complex regulation, have increasingly hampered the interpretation and application of the legislation by economic operators and authorities, leading to unequal market conditions and the placing of unsafe products on the market. however, the provisions of the decision on a new legislative framework are not directly applicable and the provisions of that decision should be integrated into the legislation on products in force. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims at harmonization.
in writing. - this report reformul­sates directive 94/9/ec on protective equipment and systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. the document is part of a package of nine directives which are now being recast to conform to the new legislative framework (nlf). the nql is designed to fill the gaps in the european union's harmonisation legislation, with the main aim of providing the single market with fair competition and safe products. this text sets out the essential requirements and conformity assessment procedures to be applied by manufacturers to ensure that their products conform to the essential requirements before they are made available on the eu market. it also proposes to modernise the current procedures by electronic means in order to reduce red tape.
in writing. - we voted for a directive aimed at harmonizing protective equipment and systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres and safety, control and regulation devices intended for use outside potentially explosive atmospheres but which are necessary or contribute to the safe operation of protective equipment and systems with regard to the risks of explosion. the main express objective of this directive is to ensure legal certainty, to increase consumer protection, to improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and to ensure better market surveillance for products. member states may lay down such requirements as they consider necessary to ensure the protection of persons and in particular of workers using such products. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it important to make several amendments to the proposal for a directive in order to achieve a higher level of consistency with the terms used in decision no 768/2008/ec and to eliminate any inconsistencies in the text which may create legal uncertainty. similarly, before the new directive becomes applicable, it is necessary to clarify the legal situation of products legally placed on the market in accordance with the current directive but still in storage. it is appropriate to emphasise the non-retroactive nature of the european union legislation and to clarify that these products may continue to be made available on the market after the date of application of the new directive. i also believe that the commission should publish the national provisions of the transposed directive and the applicable penalties on the internet, in accordance with the principle of transparency.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report. in order to ensure a consistent level of quality in conformity assessment, it is also necessary to establish requirements to be met by notifying authorities and other bodies involved in the assessment, notification and monitoring of notified bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the harmonization of the provisions concerning the placing on the market and the control of explosives for civil use. the amendments introduced by the european parliament will help to increase consumer confidence and improve the free movement of goods in the european union through more efficient control methods.
in writing. - this directive applies to explosives for civil use. the amendments to the provisions of this directive relate mainly to the obligations of economic operators, the presumption of conformity of assessment bodies, the ce marking, the safeguard clause procedure. the intention of this proposal for a directive is limited to alignment with the horizontal provisions of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and the new terminology of the lisbon treaty, including new rules on comitology. the main objectives of this directive are to ensure legal certainty, to increase consumer protection, to improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and to ensure better market surveillance for products. as in the other procedures for reformulation and harmonization voted on at this part-session by the rapporteur, we have nothing to object to and we voted in favour.
in writing. - parliament considers in this report that the alignment of the member states' legislation on the making available on the market and the control of explosives for civil use represents an important step towards the completion of the single market of the european union. the new simplified regulatory framework for products allows for a more consistent application of technical standards and will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as a fair assessment of notified bodies on the union market. in view of these benefits, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report reformul­sates directive 93/15/eec on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market and supervision of explosives for civil use. the document is part of a package of nine directives which are now being recast to conform to the new legislative framework (nlf). the nql is designed to fill the gaps in the european union's harmonisation legislation, with the main aim of providing the single market with fair competition and safe products. member states are encouraged to take all appropriate measures to ensure that explosives are placed on the market only when properly stored and used exclusively for their intended purpose. the nqf is intended to contribute to a better movement of goods in the european area and the recasting of this directive is essential for that, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this directive applies to explosives for civil use. the amendments to the provisions of this directive relate mainly to the obligations of economic operators, conformity assessment bodies, ce marking, the safeguard clause procedure. the intention of this proposal for a directive is limited to alignment with the horizontal provisions of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and the new terminology of the lisbon treaty, including new rules on comitology. the main objectives of this directive are to ensure legal certainty, to increase consumer protection, to improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and to ensure better market surveillance for products. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the nfl contributes to increasing consumer confidence in the single market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers. i believe that the introduction of some amendments would allow the new directive to cover a wider set of situations covered by the essential safety requirements. i think it is important to ensure consumer protection by specifying instructions, safety information and labelling in a way that is reliable, understandable and transparent.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because the notification procedure must be made more efficient and transparent and, in particular, adapted to new technologies in order to allow electronic notification.
in writing. - this directive applies to non-automatic weighing instruments and to harmonised standards for their placing on the market. the intention of this (recast) proposal for a directive is limited to alignment with the horizontal provisions of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and the new terminology of the lisbon treaty, including new rules on comitology. the harmonisation of this directive aims to ensure legal certainty, increase consumer protection, improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and to ensure better market surveillance for products. we're not opposed. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the new legislative framework contains a number of amendments aimed, in particular, at ensuring a higher level of market surveillance for these products. the commission also proposed that the member states should be required to provide the commission with information on their market surveillance activities on an annual basis and to encourage member states to adequately fund their market surveillance authorities. parliament also stressed the need for member states to take appropriate measures against the misuse of the ce marking. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report reformats directive 2009/23/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of non-automatic weighing instruments. the document is part of a package of nine directives which are now being reformulated to bring them into line with the new legislative framework (nlf). the nql is designed to fill the gaps in the european union's harmonisation legislation, with the main aim of providing the single market with fair competition and safe products. the rapporteur encourages the commission to make the national provisions of this directive and the applicable sanctions available online, thus respecting the principle of transparency. some sectoral amendments are also introduced to clarify the right of manufacturers to use accredited conformity assessment bodies.
in writing. - this directive applies to non-automatic weighing instruments and to harmonised standards for their placing on the market. the intention of this proposal for a directive is limited to alignment with the horizontal provisions of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and the new terminology of the lisbon treaty, including new rules on comitology. the harmonisation of this directive aims to ensure legal certainty, increase consumer protection, improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and to ensure better market surveillance for products. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that this alignment of the nine product directives with the nlf represents an important step towards the completion of the eu single market. i would stress the importance of the introduction of the nlf of a simplified regulatory framework for products which allows for a more consistent application of technical standards. i believe that this initiative will contribute to a better functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as a fair assessment of notified bodies on the eu market. i would remind you that the commission's proposals in the alignment package are based on a wide consultation of the stakeholders, which included several hundred smes and their experience with the mercadoria package, which i consider to be of great importance.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because the notification procedure must be made more efficient and transparent and, in particular, adapted to new technologies in order to allow electronic notification.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive aims to regulate the electromagnetic compatibility of equipment by requiring that equipment complies with an appropriate level of electromagnetic compatibility. the directive provides for transitional measures allowing distributors to make available on the market appliances that were already in the distribution chain before the date of application of the directive. the aim of this harmonization is to ensure legal certainty, to increase consumer protection, to improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and to ensure better market surveillance for products. once again, the reasons for this reformulation seem to us to be satisfactory, so we have nothing to object to.
in writing. - the new legislative framework in which this directive is embedded contributes to increasing consumer confidence in the single market. there are also a number of amendments relating to parliament's objective of consumer protection. in this regard, some of the proposed amendments will allow the new directive to cover a wider set of situations covered by the essential safety requirements, with reasonably foreseeable use also being taken into account during the product design phase. consumer protection will also be further enhanced by specifying that instructions, safety information and labelling must be clear, understandable and intelligible. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report reformats directive 2004/108/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility, which lays down the essential requirements for electromagnetic compatibility that appliances must meet in order to be made available on the european union market. the document is part of a package of nine directives which are now being recast to conform to the new legislative framework (nlf). the nql is designed to fill the gaps in the european union's harmonisation legislation, with the main aim of providing the single market with fair competition and safe products. the new wording of the directive clarifies the obligations of economic operators, safeguard clause procedures, conformity assessment procedures, and so on. i voted in favour of this document, as it aims to align the directive with the nqf in order to foster a better european single market.
in writing. - i approve this report, and although i am aware of the forthcoming new regulation on market surveillance, drawn up by the commission services, the latest set of amendments focuses on ensuring a higher level of product surveillance on the market. to this end, i would advocate that the monitoring of the distance selling market be stepped up to ensure that all relevant information requirements are also applied to electronic commerce. i think it is important to establish the obligation for member states to report annually to the commission information on their market surveillance activities. it is also important to call on all member states to adequately finance the national authorities responsible for market surveillance in order to provide them with the means to act effectively. finally, i would stress the need for member states to take appropriate measures against improper use of ec identification.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report. in order to ensure effective access to information for market surveillance purposes, the information needed to identify all applicable union acts should be available in a single eu declaration of conformity. in order to reduce the administrative burden on economic operators, that single eu declaration of conformity may consist of a process consisting of the various relevant declarations of conformity.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to ensure that electrical equipment on the market meets requirements which provide a high level of protection of the health and safety of persons, domestic animals and property. it is a properly justified and workable proposal for harmonization. we're not opposed. we voted yes.
in the case of the new legislation, there is a whole series of amendments which are designed to reduce red tape. the european parliament supports the simplification and modernisation of the procedures provided for in the new framework and, at the same time, advocates the need for flexibility in relation to some of the obligations created by the new framework. for example, it is proposed to introduce a derogation from the one-declaration of conformity rule in cases where the submission of a single document raises specific problems related to its complexity or scope. in this respect, it should be possible to present all relevant declarations of conformity separately, in particular by ensuring a higher level of supervision of these products on the market. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report reformats directive 2006/05/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to electrical equipment intended for use within certain voltage limits, which lays down the safety objectives that electrical equipment must meet in order to be made available on the european union market. the document is part of a package of nine directives which are now being recast to conform to the new legislative framework (nlf). the nql is designed to fill the gaps in the european union's harmonisation legislation, with the main aim of providing the single market with fair competition and safe products. this alignment of the various directives with the nql will increase the confidence of producers and consumers in the european market, as it provides the member states' authorities with effective tools for carrying out fiscal controls of the market. in this recast of the directive, sectoral adjustments have been made to introduce further clarification as regards the voltage limits of the electrical equipment to be used. aligning directive 2006/05/ec with the nql is necessary to improve the eu single market, which is why i voted in favour of adopting this document.
in writing. - this is a directive which aims to ensure that electrical equipment on the market meets requirements which provide a high level of protection of the health and safety of persons, domestic animals and property. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. - i approve of this report, taking into account that, following the adoption in 2008 of the legal framework in the context of the nlf, the commission has started a process of evaluating the eu harmonised product legislation to identify the instruments to be reviewed for the implementation of the nlf. this evaluation process identified several directives that need to be revised in the next 3-5 years, due to revision clauses or sector specific reasons, such as the need to clarify the scope, the need to update safety requirements, etc. the vast majority of existing european product legislation will therefore have to be reviewed and dealt with individually in accordance with the commission's work programme. i therefore support the amendments to the provisions of this directive concerning the definitions, the obligations of economic operators, the presumption of conformity conferred by harmonised standards, the declaration of conformity, the ec identification, the notified bodies, the safeguard clause procedure and the conformity assessment procedures.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report is necessary to ensure that safety components for lifts from third countries entering the union market comply with this directive, in particular the compliance of manufacturers with the appropriate conformity assessment procedures for such safety components for lifts. it is therefore appropriate to provide that importers ensure that safety components for lifts which they place on the market comply with the requirements of this directive and that they do not place on the market safety components for lifts which do not comply with those requirements or which present a risk. it is also appropriate to provide that importers ensure that the conformity assessment procedures have been complied with and that the marking of safety components for lifts and the documentation drawn up by the manufacturer are made available to the competent national surveillance authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it fills the gaps in the european legislation currently in force without undermining the single market, fair competition or the safety of lifts and their components. the proposal aims to address the inconsistencies in the application and enforcement of the current legislation by making it more uniform and comprehensible to economic operators and market surveillance authorities.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive aims to harmonize the laws of the member states concerning lifts used in buildings and constructions and intended for the transport of both persons and goods. the intention of this proposal for a directive is limited to alignment with the horizontal provisions of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and the new terminology of the lisbon treaty, including new rules on comitology. member states may therefore lay down the requirements they deem necessary to ensure the protection of persons when lifts are put into service. we have nothing to object to.
in writing. - before the new directive with the new legislative framework is applicable, it is necessary to clarify the legal situation of products legally placed on the market in accordance with the current directive but still in storage. it is appropriate to emphasise the non-retroactive nature of the eu legislation and to clarify that these products may continue to be made available on the market after the date of application of the new directive. the commission is also proposing to make lifts more accessible to disabled people and to strengthen safety requirements by ensuring that the concept of safety also includes the safety of children, the elderly and disabled people in cases where lifts are used to transport people. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report reformats directive 95/16/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to lifts, which lays down the essential health and safety requirements to be met by lifts and their safety components in order to make them available on the european union (eu) market. the document is part of a package of nine directives which are now being recast to conform to the new legislative framework (nlf). the nql is designed to fill the gaps in the european union's harmonisation legislation, with the main aim of providing the single market with fair competition and safe products. this report shall set out clearer, more comprehensible and intelligible safety instructions and information and the labelling of lifts and their components. as this recasting is essential for the nql, and i agree with the amendments tabled, i voted in favour of adopting the document.
in writing. - the purpose of this directive is to harmonize the laws of the member states relating to lifts used in buildings and structures and intended for the carriage of both persons and goods. the intention of this proposal for a directive is limited to alignment with the horizontal provisions of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and the new terminology of the lisbon treaty, including new rules on comitology. member states may therefore lay down the requirements they deem necessary to ensure the protection of persons when lifts are put into service. we voted yes.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that the nlf should help to improve the free movement of goods in the european union. it should be noted that complex bureaucracy is an obstacle to the free flow of goods. in this respect, i agree with the suggestion that the proposal for a directive should be examined in such a way as to reduce as much as possible the bureaucracy involved in identifying previous economic operators in the commercial circuit.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this directive, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission. those powers should be exercised in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers.
in writing. - this directive applies to simple pressure vessels manufactured in series. the main objective of this proposal is to ensure legal certainty, increase consumer protection, improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and ensure better market surveillance for products. the reasons given are acceptable and we have nothing to object to.
in writing. - the current directive lays down the essential requirements that simple pressure vessels must meet in order to be made available on the eu market. the new legislative framework was adopted to fill gaps in the existing union harmonisation legislation in order to achieve the single market with fair competition and safe products. the inconsistencies in the effective application and enforcement in the member states of the union harmonisation legislation in force, together with the complexity of the regulation, have led to increasing difficulties for economic operators and authorities in interpreting and applying the legislation, which has resulted in unequal conditions of competition in the market and the placing on the market of unsafe products. the merchandise package sets out the general framework for simplifying product legislation in order to make it more uniform and comprehensible for both economic operators and market surveillance authorities. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report reformulers directive 2009/105/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of simple pressure vessels. this directive lays down the requirements that simple pressure vessels must meet in order to be made available on the european market. the document is part of a package of nine directives which are now being recast to conform to the new legislative framework (nlf). the nql is designed to fill the gaps in the european union's harmonisation legislation, with the main aim of providing the single market with fair competition and safe products. this is a reformulation which does not change the substance but only the alignment with the nql. for these reasons i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - this directive applies to simple pressure vessels manufactured in series. the main objectives of this directive are to ensure legal certainty, to increase consumer protection, to improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and to ensure better market surveillance for products. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve of this report and, as i said earlier, i am in favour of simplifying and modernising the procedures provided for in the nqf, but at the same time i would like to stress that some of the obligations imposed by the new framework may need to be relaxed. for example, it is proposed to create an exception to the one-off declaration of conformity rule for cases where the presentation of a single document creates specific problems due to its complexity or extent. in such cases, it should be possible to present all relevant documents separately. greater flexibility is allowed with regard to the single european union declaration of conformity, which, taking into account the provisions of article 5 of the decision, is complemented by an exception in cases which are likely to give rise to specific problems due to their complexity or extent.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report because manufacturers should draw up an eu declaration of conformity to provide the information required by this directive on the conformity of a measuring instrument with this directive and with other applicable union harmonisation legislation.
in writing. - the current measuring instruments directive sets out essential requirements and selects the appropriate conformity assessment procedures that manufacturers must apply to demonstrate that their instruments meet the essential requirements before they are made available on the eu market. the new legislative framework was adopted to address the gaps in the current union harmonisation legislation in order to complete the single market, ensuring fair competition and safe products. in order to ensure that all economic sectors covered by union harmonisation legislation benefit from the improvements brought about by the new legislative framework, it is necessary to integrate the provisions of the new framework decision into the existing product legislation. that is the case here, and in the terms described above i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report reformats directive 2004/22/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to measuring instruments. this directive lays down the requirements and conformity assessment procedures which manufacturers are to apply in order to demonstrate that their instruments meet the necessary requirements before being made available on the european single market. this document is part of a package of nine directives which are now being recast to conform to the new legislative framework (nlf). the nql is designed to fill the gaps in the european union's harmonisation legislation, with the main aim of providing the single market with fair competition and safe products. manufacturers and importers shall indicate on the measuring instrument their personal data name, registered trade name or registered trade mark and postal address. importers must ensure that this information, as well as the safety instructions, are provided with each measuring instrument. i voted in favour of this report because it will speed up the procedures for the european union's single market.
in writing. - this directive lays down the essential requirements with which measuring instruments must comply in order to be made available on the market and/or put into service. measuring instruments may be used, subject to the decision of each member state, for measurement operations carried out for reasons of public interest, public health, public order and safety, environmental protection, consumer protection, the collection of taxes and fees and fairness in commercial transactions. the intention of this proposal for a directive is limited to alignment with the horizontal provisions of decision no 768/2008/ec on a common framework for the marketing of products and the new terminology of the lisbon treaty, including new rules on comitology. the main objectives of this directive are to ensure legal certainty, to increase consumer protection, to improve safety, instruction and labelling requirements, to reduce red tape and to ensure better market surveillance for products. we voted yes.
in writing. - airlines too often fail to recognise the rights of passengers in the event of denied boarding or of considerable delays, cancellations or problems with luggage. this is because there are still gaps in existing european legislation, but mainly because of the incomplete and inconsistent application of these regulations by carriers and national authorities. this situation creates legal uncertainty and confusion for both the industry and passengers, who are not properly informed about their rights, and the number of passengers claiming their rights or actually compensated is very low. i therefore support this proposal for a revision of the 1997 and 2004 regulations, which clarifies the basic principles and passenger rights that have been the subject of dispute and aims to strengthen passenger rights in general, in particular the right to quality of service, the protection of economic interests and information. it should also ensure that air carriers provide a high level of protection in the event of disruption to travel and that they can operate under uniform conditions in a liberalised market.
in writing. - the present proposal aims to keep pace with transport developments and to strengthen air passengers' rights. the proposals aim to ensure that (i) the role of national enforcement bodies is better defined, having been extended to cover baggage complaints; (ii) a clear time-bound complaint procedure with clearly defined functions for a new body responsible for handling complaints; (iii) new provisions for cases of denied boarding, missed connecting flights or significant delay; (iv) a non-exhaustive list of extraordinary circumstances to clarify cases where airlines are exempt from compensation; (v) a strengthened obligation for air carriers to inform passengers in an appropriate and timely manner; (vi) new provisions on the carriage of mobility equipment and musical instruments. whatever the means of transport used, passengers have the right to a quality and safe service, which is why i welcome the intention to introduce improvements in legislation on passenger rights in air transport.
in writing. - the report aims to amend regulation (ec) no 261/2004 laying down common rules for the compensation and assistance of air passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights, and regulation (ec) no 2027/97 on air carrier liability for the carriage of passengers and their baggage. the amendments to those regulations are due to significant changes in the aviation sector in recent years, some of which have resulted in an increase in unfair practices and reduced quality of service, with negative consequences for passengers due to existing gaps in legislation and its uneven application in the member states, as well as difficulties for passengers to assert their rights against non-compliant air carriers, whose statistics show that only a small percentage of those injured are effectively compensated. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the rapporteur's proposals in general promote an improvement in the level of protection of the rights of consumers as air transport users, in particular in the event of denied boarding for not having completed part of the journey, the right to compensation and access to basic hygiene and health conditions during flight delays.
in writing. - the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 has led to a number of complaints and uncertainties, resulting from the non-uniform application in the member states, with regard to compensation and assistance to passengers and in the event of refusal and cancellation or delay of flights. the european court itself has been called upon to clarify numerous situations which show how difficult it is for passengers to assert their rights against air carriers. the amendments will improve consumer protection by removing a certain legal uncertainty. i would like to highlight the changes to the right to compensation in the event of long delays, to the rights in relation to connecting flights, to denied boarding, to protection in the event of multiple flight cancellations, to the mandatory contingency plans for airport entities, to the list of criteria defining extraordinary circumstances, to the right to accommodation, to the right to information, to price transparency, to checked baggage, to lost, damaged or delayed baggage, to the complaint procedures and to delays on the tarmac. a report which benefits passengers in the union by creating an area of safety and consumer protection.
in writing. - i approve of this report, as i consider that improving the focus of the main interests by bringing it into line with the relevant case law of the ecj is generally well received. in this respect, parliament stated in its own-initiative legislative report that the definition of the centre of main interests should take into account factors such as the main transaction of the operation of the undertaking which can be determined by third parties, the location of the goods, the centre of the operational or production activities, etc. in order not to focus only on management decisions and to leave aside the question of the location of the assets, an amendment was made to recital 13a. as also requested by parliament, the draft report supports the creation of an eu register enabling creditors and courts to determine whether or not insolvency proceedings have been opened in another member state. i believe that the register should be integrated into the e-justice portal and should include all relevant information on open crossborder insolvency proceedings. this register is crucial to improve publicity and transparency.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report which seeks to strengthen the restructuring of a group and/or its members by allowing for the flexible and coordinated handling of insolvency proceedings. the group coordination process should not be binding on the individual process but rather serve as a reference for the actions to be taken within that individual process.
in writing. - unfortunately, crossborder insolvencies are no longer an exception but a daily phenomenon not only for large companies but also for smes, which requires the modernisation and adaptation of eu insolvency legislation. there are certain areas where harmonisation is useful and feasible, as disparities between national insolvency laws create competitive advantages or disadvantages and difficulties for companies operating across borders, which are likely to prevent a successful recovery of insolvent companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation should be amended to include the following: the report supports the creation of an eu register to enable creditors and courts to determine whether or not insolvency proceedings have been opened in another member state. the register should be integrated into the e-justice portal and should contain all relevant information on open cross-border insolvency proceedings. this register is crucial to improve publicity and transparency. it also sets out the minimum criteria that the guarantee given by an insolvency practitioner to local creditors must meet in order to be binding and enforceable. it also clarifies that any decision to postpone or refuse to open secondary proceedings may be contested by local creditors. last but not least, this report also addresses the important question of what happens if the insolvency practitioner is not complying with the guarantee. in such a case, local creditors should be entitled to protection by means of a court decision, for example by means of an exit ban (article 29a (2b).
- crossborder insolvencies are no longer an exception but a daily phenomenon affecting not only large companies and groups of companies but also small and mediumsized enterprises. there is sufficient data available on the application of the european insolvency regulation, which allows us to solve the most pressing issues. there are many arguments in favour of the reform process and, not least, there are many arguments for modernising the union's insolvency legislation to shift the emphasis from simply closing a company to the need to give it a second chance. an appropriate and well-coordinated insolvency procedure can effectively help to avoid the winding up of groups and increase the possibilities for better realisation of assets and the preservation of jobs. i agree with these assumptions which guided the decision to modernise this legislation and therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to finance the restructuring of the economy. the commission proposal identifies five major shortcomings that need to be addressed and the amendments to the scope of the insolvency regulation proposed by the commission are necessary to cover the additional restructuring mechanisms. the report therefore supports the creation of an eu register enabling creditors and courts to determine whether or not insolvency proceedings have been opened in another member state and also welcomes the commission's suggestions on secondary proceedings. i therefore voted in favour of this document in the european parliament.
in writing. - while community legislation has existed since 2000 to determine which member state has jurisdiction to open insolvency proceedings in crossborder insolvency proceedings, it has now been considered necessary to revise the scope of the legislation to cover hybrid or pre-insolvency proceedings. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the most worrying thing for us is the definition of the centre of main interests, since the commission proposal considers that this should coincide with the country where a particular insolvent company has its registered office. the author of the report does not exclude this possibility but rightly believes that there are other criteria. for us, the most important criterion would be the location of the production centres, since this is where the main beneficiaries of the insolvency proceedings - the workers - are located. we abstained.
mr president, kiev last week was an eye-opener. the camps seem entrenched, yet mr yanukovych had to burst into the verkhovna rada and arm-twist his party to get a vote his way, and the opposition leaders do not seem to lead much. beware of the determined people in the euromaidan, who say this is an essential fight and that it is about ditching not their russian heritage but rather the corrupt oligarchic system – by conquering the rule of law, democracy and human rights. not just any deal will be sufficient to dismiss the maidan, and already other cities in the east of the country are breaking free of fear in euromaidans. a political solution to the crisis is needed, coupled with the release of political prisoners and missing persons. accountability for the repressors and torturers will require a constitutional framework that ensures checks and balances and the prospect of presidential elections. neither mr putin nor anyone else is entitled to decide the destiny of the people of ukraine: they alone can do that. the eu must act towards ukraine on the basis of its values, principles and laws, and must speak with one voice. we call, in this resolution, for targeted sanctions, the freezing of assets in eu banks and the denial of visas to top ukrainian officials and their oligarch sponsors who bear responsibility for repression and corruption and for obstructing a peaceful solution. time is running out for a negotiated solution to the crisis. after the winter olympics in sochi, a crackdown might easily be orchestrated in reaction to any extremist provocation. eu citizens would then be badly hurt, with the bloodshed and the flow of refugees. civil war or the division of ukraine could spell war in europe – another world war ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the decision of the european union to send a force to the central african republic and the authorization of the security council to use that force are welcome but they are a waste of time when for months the urgency of intervening was known and that is why french troops advanced. it is about exercising the responsibility to protect the population from a foretold genocide. the central african republic is among the ten poorest countries in the world, despite being rich in natural resources, the conflict that has escalated for more than a year can vote the country as a failed state for a long time. the announcements of genocide, such as the one we have sadly allowed to happen in rwanda, must wake up the sleeping rulers who must take responsibility and find mechanisms of political decision-making and generating forces that arrive in time to prevent further tragedy. the european union could have used the battlegroups it has never used and which it has to intervene in situations like this. it cannot now agonize for months preparing the common security and defence policy mission to be on the ground. all member states are required to contribute to these missions, including financially. it is unacceptable that the european council has not yet reviewed the financing scheme for such missions. this is not a technical issue, it is eminently political. if germany and other economically strong states do not have the stomach to send troops into the field, at least do not overburden those countries financially that have men and women with the courage to go urgently to such missions. what is at stake are european values, europe's role in building global peace and security.
geneva ii has opened a negotiating process that will be long and arduous but must bring together the national coalition of the syrian revolutionary forces and opposition, now deeply divided, with other regional and international actors to bring them to a political solution that will end the horrible suffering of the syrian people and of the neighbouring countries, especially those hosting thousands of refugees. it was a mistake to exclude the main ally of the regime of bashar al-assad from the table. iran is now a central player in the conflict and therefore vital to a political solution. the agreement on the iranian nuclear programme should have allowed him to be brought to the table and also to be involved in the process of seeking a negotiated solution to the conflict in syria. it is also important to hold other countries in the region, such as saudi arabia and qatar, to account so that their support for the syrian opposition does not continue to fall into the hands of extremist and terrorist groups. negotiations must be launched, they must involve measures to restore confidence, define ceasefires, end sieges of urban and populated areas, release prisoners, facilitate humanitarian access, impose humanitarian corridors. the solution for syria and the region is a political transition based on the geneva communiqué, preserving the independence and integrity of the country. nearly three years into the civil war in syria, it has already killed more than 100,000 people; 10,000 children, the united nations says, who have shown how they are one of the hardest hit groups and in this conflict recruited as soldiers, used as human shields to transport weapons, food, medicine, or as messengers and spies in conflict zones. this systematic violation of human and children's rights in syria is one more reason why bashar al-assad and other torturers involved in the syrian conflict should have been referred to the international criminal court by now. the situation of the palestinians in the desperate conditions of yarmouk also deserves intervention by the international community and it is therefore essential that the european union holds the powers of the security council, and in particular russia, accountable so that they do not continue to delay the adoption of a resolution which at least covers the humanitarian aspect of the conflict.
on behalf of the green/efa group. it is now clear that the european union, at the level of the institutions and the member states, made a strategic mistake at the beginning of the syrian conflict and a mistake of principle in the management of the issues of refugees and exiles in europe. the strategic mistake was to believe that the war would be short-lived. it's being prolonged, it's not known how long it will last, and the right tool to deal with refugees in protracted conflict is refugee resettlement, which was not used at the beginning but should be used as soon as possible, because it's the right way to do an orderly and peaceful management of these refugee flows from their source in the borders of syria. the error of principle was that the member states always wanted to reject the basic principle that solidarity should be exercised towards refugees, of course, but also between member states of the european union and therefore, according to commissioner malmström's calls for the use of article 33 of the now revised dublin regulation, because it is obviously not just about solidarity towards refugees but towards a member state, bulgaria, which is in a crisis situation as greece itself was before, and minister venizelos is particularly well placed to understand this. when we tried to have article 80 of the treaties used in all legislation on these cases, the council never wanted to and said that article 80, an article which determines solidarity between member states, was programmatic and was always used. if it's always used, use it now. for strategic reasons, for reasons of principle and above all for humanitarian reasons, let us start resettling refugees, for which we have the means and the necessary regulations, right from the borders of syria, and let us start the alarm mechanism provided for in the revised dublin regulation so that we do not add tragedy to the syrian tragedy, now within european borders.
in writing. in 2013, more than 10,000 migrants are thought to have arrived in bulgaria, the vast majority of them from syria, fleeing the war that has plagued the country since 2011. under eu rules, member states have a responsibility to ensure access to medical and psychological care for asylum seekers, but the reality is that, given the massive influx of refugees, reception centres are overcrowded and without adequate capacity to help them all. faced with this scenario, many end up sleeping on the street in unheated tents, while others huddle in classrooms or in disused government-provided buildings. it is the first time bulgaria has faced a crisis situation of this nature and it is up to us to raise awareness and do everything possible in each member state and in the european context to support these migrants.
mr president, president mansour announced presidential elections before the end of april and the new parliament should be elected by july. after the referendum on the new constitution, the voice is being given again to the people of egypt. the institutions coming out of these elections are the ones we will have to work with. as european legislators, let us respect the people’s vote and not be patronising, as in the past. what we have witnessed were hurdles in the revolution, but everyone must participate in the new elections. also, the eu must monitor in situ the upcoming electoral processes and react firmly in all cases where democracy is breached. egypt cannot be a country where people are dying simply for fighting for their ideas, or are put in jail because they are alleged to be terrorists or traitors. many of these people are foreign citizens; some are journalists or diplomats. yesterday’s heroes are today’s terrorists. egypt needs all its citizens and movements to live in tolerance and mutual respect. this was also not happening under morsi’s regime, but no one is totally right and no one is totally wrong. the new european neighbourhood policy conditions our acts, and in order to respect the ‘more for more’ principle, we have to say to our partners: show us that you are embracing the fundamental values of democracy, freedom and solidarity and we will gladly keep on supporting your efforts. if you do not do so, we will keep on supporting those in your country and in your society who are willing to. i wish to recall that the rule of law, judicial independence, tolerance and the sovereignty of the people are at the core of democracy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think that each country should have its own constitution and no one should try to impose any model on anyone else. i believe that each country should establish its own rules regarding the fundamental law of that country. i think it is very well done if they submit it to a referendum of their own people, but no one should try to impose a model or insist on an example of a model. i think that subsidiarity should apply in this case as well.
it is backsliding on the path to democracy that tahrir square wanted to open. hundreds of journalists, opposition members, human rights activists are arrested, arbitrarily detained under the new law on assembly, assembly and demonstration, which is flagrantly restrictive of freedom of expression and assembly in the light of international law. the referendum that led to the adoption of the new constitution was dubious to say the least; the voting was poor; the debate before the vote was not free; criticism of the draft constitution was suppressed, weakening the legitimacy of the adopted constitution. the text may be better on fundamental rights, women's rights and minorities, but the test will be in practice. and what we are seeing at this moment is that there is, in fact, a situation that many describe as much worse in terms of human rights violations than in mubarak's time. the constitutional reservations to the army and, in particular, the possibility of military courts judging civilians are also alarming. the army and police continue to use excessive force against protesters; society is more polarized; political extremism has increased. this is fuelling radical factions and violent groups, and impunity is rife in the country and mistrust of power is greater than ever. security and stability are reflected in particular in the sinai region, which is becoming less and less controlled with the increase in cases of disappearances, deaths and torture of refugees, particularly from eritrea and somalia. there will be no democracy in egypt without an inclusive process of reconciliation and in this sense it is counterproductive to marginalize and criminalize the activity of the muslim brotherhood. it is time for the european union to stop putting on a hot coat. it is time to apply the principle of 'more for more' and therefore review the assistance it provides to egypt under the european neighbourhood policy and the association agreement: more for more is also, must be, less for less. in this sense, we support everything that the european union's representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, can say in egypt, loudly, to make known the concerns that we have about the current situation of human rights and the rule of law in egypt.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rights of women and girls are respected. almost all women in the european union have experienced some form of violence in their lifetime: one in five has been a victim of domestic violence and one in ten may be raped or forced into sexual acts. female genital mutilation is one of the most serious forms of violence against women and girls; it is also a form of child abuse and, more importantly, serious violence against girls and girls that causes short- and long-term health problems. the european parliament and especially the committee on women's rights and gender equality have called on the european commission to initiate concrete action at european level to end violence by men against women and girls. the absence of a global strategy against violence against women, including female genital mutilation, does not contribute to a structured fight against these crimes. the femm committee, in its proposal for a european parliament resolution, considered that a comprehensive directive at european union level would be an important step. it is not fair that women's rights issues are always pushed to the back burner and not given the attention and priority they deserve. we recommend signing and ratifying the council of europe's istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, which includes minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of all women and girls. it is a step that each member state and the european union can take to protect women and girls against female genital mutilation and other forms of violence. there are also a number of international instruments which underline the importance of ending violence against women and female genital mutilation: the universal declaration of human rights, the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the convention on the rights of the child, which are fundamental to implement. female genital mutilation affects between 100 and 140 million women and girls worldwide. every year, 3 million girls are at risk of being victims of this type of violence. at a time when the new millennium goals, from 2015, are being discussed, it is extremely important that women's rights and gender equality are at the heart of these new goals. similarly, women's rights and the fight against violence against women and girls should be considered as fundamental and priority objectives. it is important to set concrete objectives and concrete measures with concrete political commitments for the eradication of female genital mutilation, the reduction of infant mortality, the improvement of maternal health, with a strong emphasis on the promotion and enhancement of women's sexual and reproductive rights worldwide. as we know, female genital mutilation has a terrible impact on women's reproductive and sexual health. ending all forms of violence against women and girls, including female genital mutilation, must be a priority, especially in times of crisis we are living through. we all know that austerity measures and cuts in social support and public services have serious consequences on gender equality, pushing women back home to care for children and the elderly, pushing them into precarious working conditions but also pushing them into increased violence against them. it is important that we use non-discriminatory and non-stigmatising terminology today which leads and can lead to further isolation of women who are or may be victims of female genital mutilation. it is essential to criminalize and punish the criminals, but also to prevent, to take actions to raise awareness and to raise awareness in the communities where these crimes are committed, to educate new generations about women's rights. political power is the power of initiative. it is essential that there are coordinated strategies to end all forms of violence against women, based on human rights and the principle of equality. the numbers of this macabre crime cannot continue to rise if we are to move forward and if we are to move towards social progress.
on behalf of the s&d group. as has been said here, about 140 million women have already been subjected to fgm. every year, 3 million girls and teenagers are mutilated. one every six minutes. in the past, mutilation was done around the age of eight or nine. now, the victims are only 2 and 3 years old. this is the sad reality in third countries, in many countries, but it is also the case in certain communities in some countries of the european union. in mali, for example, 98 percent of women and girls are mutilated, in a ritual that involves the victim's family, including the parents themselves. pressure to subject girls to fgm comes from families and communities, both in the countries of origin and in europe. coordinated efforts are needed to put an end to this scourge. fgm is a serious violation of human rights. member states cannot tolerate criminal practices which, in the name of a purported tradition, endanger the integrity and physical and psychological health of women. women and adolescent girls who undergo fgm suffer very serious consequences: death from bleeding or infection, transmission of diseases such as aids, hepatitis, and tetanus, incontinence, sexual dysfunction, and serious complications during pregnancy and childbirth, to name a few. and then there are the devastating psychological effects, similar to the effects of rape. states should therefore promote social and psychological support services and take measures to improve health conditions, including sexual and reproductive health, in order to assist girls who are subject to this type of violence. there is much to be done: we have an obligation to do more for these young people, for these teenagers.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that the aviation sector has undergone significant changes in recent years, associated with an increase in the number of passengers and flights on the liberalised european market. however, this overall positive development was accompanied to some extent by unfair practices and a reduction in the quality of services, with negative consequences for passengers. in addition, since the entry into force of the regulation in 2004, problems have arisen from the different interpretations resulting from the shadow zones and gaps in the current regulation, from the non-uniform application in the member states and from the difficulties experienced by passengers in asserting their rights when air carriers do not comply with the legislation. parliament had already expressed its views on several of these points in the context of its resolutions adopted in 2012. i can however highlight several elements of the commission's proposal as a step forward in the application of air passenger rights.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report to increase the levels of protection, it must not be possible to prevent passengers from boarding a flight leg of a return ticket on the grounds that they have not made the return journey or have not used all the segments of the ticket. manufacturers should draw up an eu declaration of conformity in order to provide the information required by this directive on the conformity of a measuring instrument with this directive and with other applicable union harmonisation legislation.
in writing. - air carriers are expected to have a contact person at each airport at which they operate to provide information and assistance to passengers in the event of flight cancellations or delays, denied boarding and lost or delayed baggage. passengers may also address their complaints to this contact person directly at the airport. it is argued that the information on baggage allowance will have to be clearly indicated at the initial stage of the booking process and at check-in. the european parliament is of the opinion that passengers should be able to carry essential personal items or belongings such as coats and hand luggage on board the aircraft, free of charge, in addition to the maximum allowable cabin baggage, including at least one standard-sized bag with items purchased at the airport. in addition, in the event of cancellation or delay of departure, the air carrier shall inform passengers of the situation, including the cause of the disturbance, as soon as this information is available and in any event no later than 30 minutes after the scheduled departure time. the proposal obliges airlines to ensure the re-routing of passengers.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this amendment reveals improvements in the protection of air passengers' rights, in particular the guarantee of protection of their legitimate interests, the right to quality of service, the right to protection of their economic interests and the right to information. the commission proposal did not ensure a high level of consumer protection in some areas, such as the reinforcement of the right to compensation for long delays and the total ban on the so-called no-show clause, preventing boarding from being unjustifiably refused and passengers who do not use the full amount of the transport ticket or even from being charged any additional fees for the same. it also includes duties on airlines to inform consumers about hand and hold baggage, and clarification of concepts used to exempt airlines from liability for damage, in particular the so-called 'extraordinary circumstances' so often used for their ambiguity. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the adoption of this new proposal will give air passengers new rights in the field of assistance, re-routing and information whenever they are detained at airports. the rules, which have yet to be negotiated with national governments, also strengthen the right to compensation for passengers who suffer long waits or baggage problems. the less clear aspects of the current legislation need to be deleted. the adoption of this report will make this possible in matters such as better airport assistance, baggage allowance in the cabin, delay, cancellation, rerouting, complaints and airline bankruptcy. that is why i am voting in favour.
mr president, the report we adopted here yesterday on a road map for energy and energy policy and climate change shows clearly the backwardness of the european institutions and parliament over the last five years. the european union considered itself the world leader in defending environmental issues and we managed yesterday, with great difficulty, to approve a report by a narrow majority which sets out only some of the fundamental and previously unquestionable targets in this house, namely on co2 emissions and on renewable energy. unfortunately, it seems that with the crisis all this has been called into question and the environment has been relegated to a secondary role. i voted in favour of this report, although it is much less ambitious than it should be, because i still believe that there can be no development unless we consider environmental and sustainability issues as an integral part of any model.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by noting that the share of wages in the low-carbon sector has declined less than in the 15 main polluting industries, especially in recent years. i therefore call for measures to be taken to allocate resources from the economic recovery plan to green, quality employment and sustainable growth. it stresses the need to support in particular small and medium-sized enterprises in creating quality green jobs for highly qualified workers as well as for the least qualified. i also stress the need to provide a platform for member states to coordinate their efforts and incentives in creating high quality green jobs and sustainable growth.
in writing. - i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on the level of ambition reached in this resolution. the european energy and climate strategy must combine the protection of the planet and the fight against climate change with security of supply and the competitiveness of the economy. in order to achieve the proposed objectives, it is necessary to define a future framework which provides guarantees and greater certainty to investors and industry. this requires a medium- and long-term policy to encourage investment in science and innovation in order to reduce the costs of technologies. these policies allow the european union to lead by example in climate and energy, but it is essential to have a global agreement that reconciles planetary preservation, economic growth, poverty eradication and the sustainability of the well-being of present and future generations.
in writing. - as we approach 2020, it is important to think about the period ahead for a number of reasons: to get ahead in terms of international strategy, to build on the excellent work already done by the european commission, but above all to be able to have a real impact on the fight against climate change. at the same session we voted for financial support to deal with the increasingly frequent natural disasters. we must instead focus on work that can at least reduce the impact of these disasters, which often cost lives as well as money.
in writing. - the current climate and energy legal framework, with binding targets for the share of renewable energy, reducing energy consumption and ghg emissions, expires in 2020. we must therefore renew these three binding targets so that the efforts made so far are not wasted. i think a target of 40% for ghg reduction, 40% for energy efficiency and 30% for renewable energy by 2030 is a good compromise. the focus on renewables is a plus in terms of reducing dependence on fossil fuel imports, in terms of job creation, and in creating competitive low-carbon sectors. to continue along this path, i believe we must give clear signals to investors. finally, i believe that deepening the european energy network by encouraging greater interconnections between member states brings undeniable advantages, as well as increasing security of supply, improving intermittency management of renewables, diversifying supply, even leading to a reduction in energy costs.
in writing. - this report looks at the eu's climate and energy policy framework up to 2030, a subject which is prone to the usual rhetoric the need for job creation and economic recovery, a transition to a sustainable growth model, etc. and the usual contradictions. new targets are put forward, with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 40% (based on 1990 emissions) and ensuring a 27% share for renewable energy. many have spoken of the lack of ambition of these goals. indeed, in the face of the wild climate rhetoric to which the eu has accustomed us, one would expect more. but numerical targets are worth what they are worth, and it is essential to assess the path to reaching them, the methods, instruments and criteria used. here the eu has long since made clear the way forward and this report insists on it: the carbon market which has been confirmed to be, besides ineffective, perverse. here, what matters and what prevails is business as usual... we support ambitious targets for reducing ghg emissions and for the transition to low-carbon technologies, but we do not share the apology for green capitalism which is once again made in this report.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the amendments to the delvaux/szymański report (on the 2030 climate and energy targets) on the exploitation of shale gas and on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to 50% compared to the 1990 level. as regards the first, there is no evidence that, with the appropriate safety guarantees, shale gas exploitation has intolerable negative environmental effects and there is no reason to disregard this energy source which is causing a significant reduction in energy costs in the usa. as for the second, although i am personally in favour of binding environmental targets, it seems to me that the proposed limit is overly ambitious and perhaps unrealistic (20% in 2020 to 50% in 2030). the union must maintain its leadership in reducing ghg emissions (co2 and others), but it must not be an isolated vanguard without followers in the rest of the world. in any case, a reasonable balance must be struck between environmental ambition and the competitiveness of the union's economy, which is already suffering from much higher energy costs than our direct competitors, such as the us.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on a 2030 framework for climate and energy policies in which the european parliament welcomes the commission's green paper on a 2030 framework for climate and energy policies and expects the european council to address these issues with ambitious, realistic and cost-efficient solutions. parliament hopes for flexible solutions that will maintain a sustainable competitive advantage for the european union, with its general and specialised energy know-how, and that will work both in the short and long term.
in writing. - i am in favour of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gases, 40% energy efficiency and 40% of energy from renewable sources. i believe that in portugal the renewable energy potential, particularly wind and solar, is still to be exploited and that this new impetus could boost economic growth and job creation in the area. however, it will be necessary to review the mechanisms for subsidising renewable energy as the technologies become more mature, to give a clear signal to investors of the strategy outlined and to deepen the european energy networks so that portugal has the possibility of discharging the electricity produced.
since the start of the economic and financial crisis, european public money that has been used to recapitalise european commercial banks represents 10% of all wealth produced in the european area. it represents, to give you an idea, twenty times the amount of the bailout allocated to portugal and on which absolutely cheap interest is being paid, but it is twenty times that bailout. so public money has been used to fund banking directly, being taken from work, from pensions, directly to the banking system. the governments and the commission are not interested in solving this problem, they are not interested in creating a common european bank resolution fund, in which banks pay for their own problems, and they are even less interested in defining a deposit guarantee system which could be common. and so this ends up being a farce, because there is no political will to tell the european citizens that it is the banks' turn to pay for their difficulties and that they have already paid more than they should. public money is used for growth, for promoting employment. it can no longer be used to save the financial system.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that it is in the interests of the community to create an institutional framework with a single resolution mechanism and a single resolution fund. this mechanism, complementary to the single supervisory mechanism proposed by the commission in september 2012, will allow for the centralisation of core banking crisis management competences and resources in the euro area and will lead to the creation of an integrated resolution mechanism at the european union level. this framework will be supported by the single resolution board, the national resolution authorities of the participating member states and the european commission, which raises very important institutional issues which should be brought to the attention of the committee on constitutional affairs and forwarded to all members of the european parliament.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the european banking authority. this proposal, which is one of the fundamental building blocks of banking union, aims to break the contagion link between sovereign and banking debt once and for all, protecting the taxpayers of the member states from the financial problems of their banking institutions. parliament supports the creation of a single resolution fund, financed by bank money, which should be operational as soon as possible in order to safeguard the health and stability of the european financial system. the commission is also proposing that the solution to bank resolution in the eu be kept within the community method and legislative framework. i therefore support parliament's decision to postpone the final vote on this report until the negotiations with the council have been concluded, in order to safeguard the stability and soundness of financial markets and the interests of european citizens and taxpayers.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the european banking authority. this proposal, which is one of the fundamental building blocks of banking union, aims to break the contagion link between sovereign and banking debt once and for all by protecting the taxpayers of the member states from the financial problems of their banking institutions. parliament supports the creation of a single resolution fund, financed by bank money, which should be operational as soon as possible in order to safeguard the health and stability of the european financial system. the commission is also proposing that the solution to bank resolution in the eu be kept within the community method and legislative framework. i therefore support parliament's decision to postpone the final vote on this report until the negotiations with the council have been concluded, in order to safeguard the stability and soundness of financial markets and the interests of european citizens and taxpayers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms under a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund, because it includes proposals to strengthen the credibility and efficiency of the resolution process, to cover all banks, to guarantee the independence of the single supervisor and to establish a single resolution fund, financed by the banks, thus rejecting the possibility of using taxpayers' money.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the european banking authority. this proposal, which is one of the fundamental building blocks of banking union, aims to break the contagion link between sovereign and banking debt once and for all by protecting the taxpayers of the member states from the financial problems of their banking institutions. parliament supports the creation of a single resolution fund, financed by bank money, which should be operational as soon as possible in order to safeguard the health and stability of the european financial system. the commission is also proposing that the solution to bank resolution in the eu be kept within the community method and legislative framework. i therefore support parliament's decision to postpone the final vote on this report until the negotiations with the council have been concluded, in order to safeguard the stability and soundness of financial markets and the interests of european citizens and taxpayers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important that progress be made towards the creation of a single bank resolution fund. the council is currently putting some obstacles in the way of the architecture of this fund and the european parliament has to give a strong response to defend its positions on this matter. that is why we are voting on our text, even though negotiations are still ongoing with the commission and the council. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the legislative initiative on the single bank resolution mechanism and the corresponding resolution fund - on which the report by elisa ferreira was voted on today - is certainly one of the most important legislative instruments that mark the union's response to the failures of the institutions of the single market and the euro area, revealed by the financial crisis of 2009. the single banking resolution mechanism is one of the pillars of the banking union, together with single supervision - which is the responsibility of the ecb - and the integrated deposit guarantee scheme. the banking union will finally overcome the asymmetry between the deep cross-border integration of the banking system on the one hand and the national fragmentation of banking supervision and resolution systems on the other. it is therefore an essential part of the economic and monetary union launched in 1992 and which the crisis has threatened to shake to its very foundations. slowly but surely, even in the aftermath of the crisis, the european union is strengthening the institutions of economic and financial governance. it's important to learn from crises.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the european banking authority. this proposal, which is one of the fundamental building blocks of banking union, aims to break the contagion link between sovereign and banking debt once and for all by protecting the taxpayers of the member states from the financial problems of their banking institutions. parliament supports the creation of a single resolution fund, financed by bank money, which should be operational as soon as possible in order to safeguard the health and stability of the european financial system. it also wants the solution for bank resolution in the european union to be kept within the community method and legislative framework. in this context, i voted in favour of parliament's decision to postpone the final vote on this report until the negotiations with the council have been concluded, in order to safeguard the stability and soundness of financial markets and the interests of european citizens and taxpayers.
in the case of the euro, the european union has moved towards the creation of the euro and the euro zone without first developing the necessary mechanisms to supervise the banking entity and any action arising from it that could harm the economic activity of the member states. after the euro crisis and the need for several member states to support bank restructuring and subsequently to adopt severe austerity measures, the european union recognised the need to go further in banking supervision by creating a single resolution mechanism and a single bank support fund. i am in favour of a more integrated internal market for banking services and increased supervision, dictated by a single mechanism which would allow uniform rules to be implemented in all the member states.
in writing. - i support this resolution, considering it important to provide consumers with complete and accurate information on the origin of meat, such as the place of birth, rearing and slaughter. this information should be included on the product label in order to inform consumers about the origin of the products they consume and to ensure transparency between consumers and producers. i believe that this will also give consumers a fuller picture of the animal welfare standards and environmental impact of meat products. i think this initiative will have a great impact on strengthening consumer confidence. the recent scandal of the fraudulent substitution of beef for horse meat has shown that stricter provisions on traceability and information of products placed on the market for human consumption are not only necessary but demanded by consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the recommendation for a decision under rule 88 (2) and (3) on the draft commission regulation on the country of origin or place of provenance of fresh, chilled and frozen pigmeat, as i considered that the commission should submit a new proposal to include a mandatory labelling requirement in relation to the place of birth as well as the places of rearing and slaughter for unprocessed meat of swine, poultry, sheep and goats, in accordance with the legislation in force on the labelling of the origin of beef and veal.
in writing. - the public health of citizens is of the utmost importance and is above all other criteria, so i think that legislation should be drawn up to ensure its protection, whether it be a system of compulsory labelling in relation to the place of birth, as well as the places of rearing and slaughter, for unprocessed meat of pigs, poultry, sheep and goats, as it exists for beef.
in writing. - this report argues that labels should indicate the country of origin or provenance of the food, in particular with regard to the determination of the life points of the animal: (a) place of birth; (b) place of rearing; (c) place of slaughter. however, it excludes the labelling of pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat and minced and minced meat, where the indication of the country on the labelling is not mandatory and only whether it is from the european union or not, or whether it was raised and slaughtered in the eu and not in the eu. only beef and beef products meet these requirements and should serve as a model for other fresh meat. the inclusion of the three points in an animal's life may sometimes be the only means for the consumer to decide between meat products. on the other hand, the horse meat scandal has brought to light how complex and interconnected the flow of meat commodities is. the reference to the place of birth of the animal on the label allows for greater transparency and traceability, making fraud more difficult and making it easier to verify those indications.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament setting out its position on the rules for implementing the regulation on the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of fresh, chilled and frozen meat of swine, sheep, goats and poultry. parliament called on the commission to draw up a revised version of the implementing regulation, including a requirement for mandatory labelling of the place of birth, rearing and slaughter for unprocessed meat of swine, poultry, sheep and goats, in accordance with the existing legislation on labelling of the origin of beef.
in writing. - the requirements on the origin of beef and beef products are fundamental, since they create expectations on the part of consumers as regards the quality and transport of the foodstuffs concerned. however, the commission does not elaborate on this legal requirement of food origin, does not include mandatory labelling in relation to the place of birth, and does not list the places of rearing and slaughter for unprocessed meat of swine, poultry, sheep and goats, in accordance with the legislation in force on labelling the origin of beef. i therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to withdraw the regulation in question and to submit a new proposal which is more complete and which protects consumers.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, considering that the gsp consists of one general scheme and two special schemes, including the special scheme for the encouragement of sustainable development and good governance (spg+), under which no duties will be charged on the import of more than 6000 tariff lines from beneficiaries. my position is also based on the fact that gsp+ is intended to act as a credible incentive for countries that want to make a firm commitment to implementing key international conventions that are essential in the context of sustainable development.
in writing. - tariff preferences act as a credible incentive for countries to make a firm commitment to implementing key international conventions, which are essential in the context of sustainable development. they should therefore form part of the conditions that a candidate country must fulfil to become a gsp+ beneficiary country. i'm in favor of this decision.
in writing. - the commission adopted a delegated act to include three countries in annex iii on the generalised system of preferences (gsp+) by means of a single delegated act. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the gsp+ scheme is fully implemented. the granting of the gsp+ should be individualised by delegated act, giving parliament the opportunity to assess each of the applications and, where appropriate, to object to the respective delegated act. the commission's decision to submit all applications in a single delegated act makes it impossible to assess each application individually.
in writing. - i signed and voted in favour of the resolution challenging the european commission's delegated act granting three central american countries the status of beneficiaries of the eu's system of generalised trade preferences, in its special modality known as gsp+. indeed, given the discretionary margin of appreciation in assessing the fulfilment of the necessary requirements by the candidate countries - namely, the absence of any serious failure to implement the relevant international conventions - i still believe that there should be a separate delegated act for each country, to allow the co-legislators (in this case the ep) to examine each case autonomously, without feeling constrained by the fact that any objection to the delegated act penalises all the countries involved and not just the country which may be in default. therefore, independently of any analysis of the three cases covered by the delegated act in question (el salvador, guatemala and panama), the delegated act should have been rejected in order to oblige the commission to replace it by three new delegated acts.
in writing. - regulation (eu) no 978/2012 lays down provisions on the union's generalised system of preferences (gsp), which is intended to support developing countries by facilitating the export of their products to the european union. it also lays down the necessary conditions that a candidate country must fulfil in order to become a gsp beneficiary country and the fact that this status is granted automatically, requiring a case-by-case assessment as regards compliance with the required conditions. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, which objects to the application of a system of generalised tariff preferences and calls on the european commission to present a new separate delegated act for each country it intends to add to the list of gsp beneficiary countries.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, having regard to the opinion delivered on 8 january 2014 by the committee referred to in article 23 of the abovementioned directive and to the commission's letter of 7 january 2014 in which the commission asks parliament to declare that it will not oppose the draft implementing regulation. in addition, my approval also takes into account the letter from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to the chair of the conference of committee chairs of 30 january 2014.
in writing. - the european energy and climate strategy must combine the fight against climate change with the security of energy supply and the competitiveness of the economy. to this end, a framework must be defined and a medium- and long-term policy devised to provide guarantees for businesses and to encourage investment. an affordable, available and clean energy system can only be achieved by a strong commitment to science and innovation, so as to reduce the costs of technologies. energy and climate policy allows the european union to lead by example, but it is essential to have a global agreement on this matter that reconciles the preservation of the planet, the competitiveness of the european economy and the sustainability of the well-being of current and future generations.
in writing. - with this recommendation, the majority of the ep agrees to amend the previous regulation on the timing, administration and other aspects of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions in accordance with the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. as we said earlier, the proposed amendment is just an attempt to repair something that cannot be repaired using the same technique. in our view, the issue of greenhouse gas emission allowances (pollution allowance trading) only serves the large polluters (large industry) with the capacity to buy the allowances and not the necessary reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. we are faced with the consequences of the operation of a perverse and ineffective mechanism - the ets/carbon market. this is an attempt to save a market which is in decline due to lack of demand, a consequence of the state of many industries and the closure of thousands of factories. the replacement of a market approach by a normative and regulatory approach is needed in an emissions reduction framework that does not depend on or feed into financial speculation.
in writing. - having regard to the letter from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to the president of the conference of committee chairs on 30 january 2014, and having no objections, i voted in favour of this decision of the european parliament not to raise objections to the draft regulation on the determination of the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned in the period 2013-2020.
in writing. - i approve this motion for a resolution, beginning by expressing my dismay and disagreement with the excessive use of violence by the security forces and the tituskhi in the face of acts of violence by ultra-nationalists. i urge president yanukovych in particular to put an end to the reprehensible practices of the berkut police and other security forces which are contrary to human rights. the provocation, abductions, persecutions, torture, beatings and partisan humiliations carried out by the security forces against the euromaidan movement, as well as arbitrary detentions and excessive periods of preventive detention are intolerable. i am concerned about reports of torture which call into question the commitments made by ukraine in this area. i would also like to highlight and condemn the well-known recent case of dmytro bulatov, leader of the automaidan movement, who was allegedly kidnapped and tortured. i call on president yanukovych to put an end to these practices and i urge the immediate and unconditional release and political rehabilitation of all unlawfully detained protesters and political prisoners, including yulia tymoshenko.
in writing. - only ukrainian citizens should have the right to decide the future of their country. i object to russia's intention to continue to consider the region as part of its sphere of influence. member states should take immediate action, including increased diplomatic pressure and the introduction of tailor-made and specific measures - such as travel sanctions and the freezing of assets and property - for ukrainians responsible for the repression and death of demonstrators. it is important that there is long-term financial support to help ukraine cope with the worsening financial and social situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine, for it strongly condemns the escalation of violence against peaceful citizens and considers that member states should apply sanctions to those responsible for the repression and death of demonstrators and adopt measures to support the country in restoring democracy and respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens.
in writing. - the news coming from kiev and other places in ukraine must worry all those who follow the situation in the country and wish it to move closer to the european union and to cooperate more closely with it. the association agreement could be an important step in this direction. i regret that it has not been signed and the consequences that this unfortunate gesture on the part of the ukrainian authorities has had. the growing discontent of the population must be heard and understood and the democratic opposition must be respected for its right to demonstrate and for the courage it has shown in facing the brutal repression it has been subjected to. the violations of human dignity and the physical integrity of opponents and demonstrators must not be repeated. any inappropriate and disproportionate use of violence by the police forces and government supporters must be condemned in the strongest terms by the union. i hope that ukraine will be able to enjoy a new era of prosperity and progress, free from external pressures, and that it will be able to freely choose its own path and define strategic options for the future, including the deepening of democracy and the rule of law.
the destruction of the gains of socialism in ukraine and the restoration of capitalism have led to social regression, a profound increase in inequality and poverty. the eu is not satisfied with this and is seeking to impose a so-called association agreement, leading it to give up key instruments to ensure the country's economic sovereignty, opening up a fragile economy to competition from eu monopolies and the great powers. the rejection of the agreement by ukraine has triggered unacceptable external pressure and interference by the eu, the us and nato, which have tried to impose the agreement by all means, including by supporting the destabilising and violent action of ultra-nationalist, neo-fascist and xenophobic forces, aligned with their interests in their criminal, destabilising actions, coup attempt and secession. we, for our part, demand respect for the sovereignty and independence of ukraine, for the sovereign decisions and choices of the ukrainian people regarding the present and the future, including agreements with the eu or any other country. we support agreements which are consistent with the demands and aspirations of the peoples for peace, progress and social justice, their sovereignty and the development of cooperative and mutually beneficial relations between the peoples of all europe.
in the case of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the provisions of the treaty on european union are respected. the popular uprising in ukraine has reached most regions, with the administrations of these regions under popular control. the eu must continue to support the ukrainians in their fight to be able to choose their trading partners. this is not a fight against anyone, but only for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the ukrainian people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine in which parliament welcomes the democratic spirit and resilience of the ukrainian people and welcomes the decision of the ukrainian parliament (verkhovna rada) to repeal the anti-protest laws.
the destruction of the gains of socialism in ukraine and the restoration of capitalism have led to social regression, a profound increase in inequality and poverty. the eu is not satisfied with this and is seeking to impose a so-called association agreement, leading it to give up key instruments to ensure the country's economic sovereignty, opening up a fragile economy to competition from eu monopolies and the great powers. the rejection of the agreement by ukraine has triggered unacceptable external pressure and interference by the eu, the us and nato, which are trying to impose the agreement by all means, including by supporting the destabilising and violent action of ultranationalist, neo-fascist and xenophobic forces aligned with their interests, their criminal, destabilising actions, the attempted coup d'état and secession. we, for our part, demand respect for the sovereignty and independence of ukraine, for the sovereign decisions and choices of the ukrainian people regarding the present and the future, including agreements with the eu or any other country. we support agreements which are consistent with the demands and aspirations of the peoples for peace, progress and social justice, their sovereignty and the development of cooperative and mutually beneficial relations between the peoples of all europe. we voted against this interventionist resolution.
in writing. - i adopt this resolution in the face of my concern at the growing involvement of radical islamic groups and foreign fighters in the syrian conflict, and the escalation of religiously and ethnically motivated violence in the country. equally alarming is the continued fragmentation and internal divisions within the opposition. i reiterate the encouragement to the national coalition of syrian revolutionary and opposition forces to create a more united, inclusive and organized opposition front, both internally and externally. i fully support the geneva ii conference on syria as the first step in a process leading to a political and democratic solution to the conflict. i would stress the fundamental importance of continuing the geneva ii process in this respect. i also welcome the efforts of the un special envoy, lakhdar brahimi, to allow for a first direct interaction between the parties to the conflict.
in writing. - the priority of the eu and the international community must be to alleviate the suffering of millions of syrians who lack basic goods and services. i call on the un security council to adopt a humanitarian resolution in this regard. the geneva ii process on syria must continue in order to reach a political and democratic solution to the conflict, as a lasting solution to the current crisis in syria can only be achieved through an inclusive political process, led by syria with the support of the international community. it is essential to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid and assistance, including across borders and lines of conflict.
in writing. - this joint motion for resolution on the situation in syria replaced six different texts and it thus expresses the opinion of six different political groups in the european parliament. in response to a catastrophe of such significance and complexity, it is extremely important to share a common view in order to take stronger measures and adopt more effective common positions. i would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that the european parliament has spoken with one voice since the beginning of this tragedy. according to the un, since the start of this terrible calamity, more than 130 000 people, most of them civilians, have been killed; 9 million are in need of humanitarian aid inside syria, including more than 6.5 million internally displaced people; and there are more than 2.3 million syrian refugees. as chair of the delegation for relations with the mashreq countries, i would like to express my full support for the geneva ii conference on syria, which must (as the resolution states) be the ‘first step in a process that will lead to a political and democratic solution to the conflict’, and i would like to remind mr assad’s regime that, as parliamentarians, we will continue to be attentive and proactive.
in the light of the recent events in syria, the commission has decided to extend the mandate of the european union to the whole of the region. the brutality that has been inflicted on its people is absolutely intolerable. more and more reports are coming in of real crimes against humanity perpetrated by the authorities and their supporters against defenseless men, women and children. despite the talks which are taking place without any tangible result, the result, also, of some inconsistency and the risk of radicalization and instrumentalization of the opposition, the regime remains committed to hardening its reaction and to using all the means at its disposal to survive. equally disturbing are the reports that many foreigners have flocked to the theatres of operations and have become involved in the conflict, aggravating its implications and extending its effects. the european union must be at the forefront of those seeking to promote solutions to this conflict and be particularly vigilant in monitoring the situation with regard to human rights violations.
in writing. - once again, the majority in the ep reveals its hypocrisy regarding the situation in syria, by dodging the support of the eu, us, nato and gulf dictatorships to the rebels, by training, financing and arming those it now accuses of being criminals. it could be a tactical change by imperialism, turning yesterday's democratic opposition into a reason - any reason - to attack syria tomorrow, to sow more destruction and to violate its sovereignty. the reasons for imperialist military aggression are not the aspirations of peoples for freedom, sovereignty, social and economic progress of countries and peoples, and the fight against the use of chemical weapons. the reasons are the recolonization of the planet and of course of the central region of energy reserves which is the middle east, as well as the guarantee of the regional impunity of imperialism, of israel and its policy of state terrorism and occupation of palestine. the european union is also concerned about the influx of refugees into syria's neighbouring countries and the eu, while maintaining pressure and interference on syria in the face of a military attack, which is the main reason why thousands of refugees continue to leave syria.
in writing. - violence in syria is escalating and the death toll is rising steadily. according to the united nations, since the beginning of the violent crackdown on peaceful protesters in syria, more than 130 000 people, mostly civilians, have been killed, according to estimates by the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (ocha), some 9 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance in syria, including more than 6,5 million internally displaced persons, and there are more than 2,3 million syrian refugees, mainly in turkey, jordan, lebanon, egypt and iraq. in the face of this increasingly catastrophic scenario, we must seek a political solution that safeguards the unity, territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of syria. we must stop this escalation of violence which only harms people and solves nothing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the situation in syria, which reiterates parliament's support for the efforts of the vp/hr catherine ashton and commissioner kristalina georgieva to ensure better coordination in the field of humanitarian aid.
in the light of the limited progress made at the second summit on how to achieve peace and manage the war in syria, it is necessary to continue to put pressure on the regime to allow humanitarian aid to reach those who need it most. this conflict, which took place in the framework of the arab spring, was initially aimed at the overthrow of bashar al-assad, but at the moment it is a sectarian struggle between shiite supporters of the government and sunni rebels who support the fall of this same government, which ended in a civil war. since the beginning of the conflict, 130,000 people have been killed and there are 9.5 million displaced persons and refugees. the union needs to support the neighbouring countries which are receiving thousands of syrians every day. the lack of food and the insecurity in the refugee camps create anger and put syrians in an unimaginable situation. i am in favour of this proposal because it is urgent that the international community put an end to this war scenario so that the syrian people can start a new life.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, beginning by strongly condemning all acts of violence, terrorism, incitement, hate speech and censorship that are taking place in egypt. i call on all political actors and the security forces to exercise the utmost restraint and to avoid provocations, in order to prevent a further escalation of violence, in the interests of the country. i offer my deepest condolences to the families of the victims. i call on the provisional authorities and the egyptian security forces to guarantee the safety of all citizens, regardless of their political views, affiliation or religion. it is essential to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, to protect the right of association, peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of the press. it is essential that there is a commitment to resolve the situation through dialogue and non-violence, in accordance with the respect and fulfilment of the country's international obligations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the situation of egypt. first of all, i strongly believe that the eu must monitor, in loco, the upcoming electoral processes and must react firmly in all cases where the rules of democracy are breached, following the announcement of presidential elections by april and fresh parliamentary elections by the end of july. i also believe that, as european legislators, we must respect the people’s vote and be prepared to work with the public institutions that emerge from these elections. the new european neighbourhood policy makes european action conditional on the principle of ‘more for more’, so egypt must prove to us that it will embrace the fundamental values of democracy (such as the rule of law, judicial independence, tolerance and the sovereignty of the people) as well as freedom and solidarity. if the state does not observe these values, the eu should continue to support only those who are willing to observe them. in conclusion, and to quote the resolution, i call on the egyptian interim authorities ‘to ensure the security of all citizens, irrespective of their political views, affiliation or confession, to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to protect the freedoms of association, peaceful assembly, expression and of the press’.
in writing. the so-called arab spring surprised the west and opened an opportunity for the democratization of several states. they overthrew their former rulers and initiated electoral processes and constitutional revisions aimed at political openness and greater citizen participation. despite the initial momentum for change, particularly evident in tunisia, egypt and libya, there is now a retreat from the initial momentum and, in some cases, a setback with serious consequences for populations already battered by the violence and instability that accompanied the revolutions. the ousting of president morsi, who was largely a victim of his own intransigence and authoritarianism, and the removal of the muslim brotherhood from political life by the egyptian army, denote the tension between various sectors of society and prove that the ousting of mubarak was not enough for egypt to find a new path towards democracy, peace and stability. the christian communities, in particular the copts, have been particularly and unjustly targeted by the latent brutality and the union should strongly condemn it. i hope that the new constitution adopted in a referendum will contribute to the necessary stability of the country and that egypt can rise up again without excluding anyone, rejecting intolerance, violence and authoritarianism.
in writing. - this resolution contains positions which we support, in particular the condemnation of the use of force by the security forces, the repression and persecution of demonstrators and egyptian political leaders, the loss of human lives. the majority of the ep is showing itself to be the same as itself, supporting a constitutional process which political and social forces consider to attack the rights of workers, peasants and other working classes and does not guarantee the rights of women and children, giving the head of state absolute powers, and is therefore, in essence, no different from the process initiated by the muslim brotherhood when it tried to establish a religious fascist state. various social and political forces in egypt have warned that the situation in the country is worsening day by day, but this has not discouraged the egyptian people who continue to demonstrate to the world their dignity, combativeness and determination in fighting for the improvement of their working and living conditions, against police violence, the trial of civilians in military courts and reactionary militias. there is not a single word in this motion for a resolution condemning foreign interference. there are other paths to the political process and it is up to the egyptian people to decide them, free from outside interference and pressure.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the middle east. political, economic and social developments in this country have important consequences for the whole region. we must condemn the clashes and the killings that have taken place. it is necessary to appeal to all those involved to realize that it is imperative to put an end to the fighting so that egypt can return to normalcy and its people can no longer be affected. we must reiterate our deep solidarity with the people of egypt and continue to support their legitimate democratic aspirations and their efforts to ensure a peaceful and democratic transition to political, economic and social reforms. our efforts must lead to an end to the confrontation in egypt and the opening of a new road to peace and democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament takes note of the new constitution of egypt, approved by referendum on 14 and 15 january 2014, which is expected to be an important step forward in the country's difficult transition to democracy. parliament welcomed the reference in the new egyptian constitution to a civilian government.
in the case of the arab revolutions, which led to regime change in the north african countries, they also brought about a climate of political and social instability in most countries, since the implementation of the rule of law and all its specific features requires certain principles and values which are not established in society. the wind of change towards the creation of genuine democratic states is still blowing, but the situation in egypt after the military takeover is still critical, with an increasing escalation of violence. this violence is creating social, ethnic and sectarian tensions between muslims and catholics. the union must play a stronger role in supporting the various elements of the creation of a rule of law. we must ban all discrimination and accept the vote of the egyptian people. as i believe that the support of the international community, and especially of the union, is essential, i shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. we cannot leave the egyptians without the help of the european union.
in writing. - this resolution contains positions which we support, in particular the condemnation of the use of force by the security forces, the repression and persecution of demonstrators and egyptian political leaders, the loss of human lives. the majority of the ep is showing itself to be the same as itself, supporting a constitutional process which political and social forces consider to attack the rights of workers, peasants and other working classes and does not guarantee the rights of women and children, giving the head of state absolute powers, and is therefore, in essence, no different from the process initiated by the muslim brotherhood when it tried to establish a religious fascist state. various social and political forces in egypt have been warning that the situation in the country is getting worse by the day, which has not discouraged the egyptian people who continue to demonstrate to the world their dignity, combativeness, and determination to fight for the improvement of their working and living conditions, against police violence, the trial of civilians in military courts and reactionary militias. there is not a single word in this motion for a resolution condemning foreign interference. there are other paths to the political process and it is up to the egyptian people to decide them, free from outside interference and pressure. we abstained.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, taking note of the follow-up reports on the eu-russia common spaces, describing progress, or setbacks, in the implementation of the eu-russia common spaces and the roadmaps adopted in 2005. i particularly support cooperation in the field of research and development and stress that the four common areas presuppose the principle of reciprocity. i stress the importance of energy security and the fact that the supply of natural resources should not be used as a political weapon. in this connection, i would stress the importance of mutual cooperation in the field of energy, which represents an opportunity to deepen economic and commercial cooperation in an open and transparent market. i want close cooperation between the european union and russia on the supply of raw materials and rare earths, especially those considered to be critical, but i also want international rules, in particular wto rules, to be respected.
in writing. - the eu-russia summit on 28 january 2014 provides an opportunity to reflect on the nature and direction of the eu-russia strategic partnership and to clarify points of disagreement. i hope that the talks will lead to improved mutual trust and create conditions for new political momentum to move the partnership forward.
in writing. recent events in ukraine demonstrate the extent to which there appears to be a geostrategic tension between the union and russia. i believe that this is more due to a certain russian unease about europe's approach to its vital space, to the core of its zone of influence, than to a european attempt to combat russia's role in countries with which it has longstanding and solid historical relations. it should be remembered that the origin of the russian state lies precisely in the grand duchy of kiev. i believe that russia would gain more by understanding the union as a potential partner and seeking to establish a non-competitive, complementary relationship with it than by seeking to challenge it and the values it represents. these are understood and loved not only by the people of the neighbouring states but also by the russian people themselves. russia is a great power with an inescapable historical and civilizational role. the union must continue to deepen and develop its relationship with russia, without relinquishing the necessary rigor and rigour in defending its interests and paying particular attention to the conduct and procedures of the russian authorities.
in the light of the recent events in ukraine and the pressure that russia has exerted on some of the countries of the so-called eastern partnership, the european union remains committed to deepening and developing its relations with russia, as demonstrated by the union's willingness to launch important negotiations with a view to a new framework agreement for its development. the european union and russia have been establishing deep and comprehensive relations, in particular in the energy, economic and trade sectors. we must continue along this path despite the latest developments, good relations between the eu and russia can only be beneficial for everyone. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the 32nd eu-russia summit allowed for reflection and discussion on common interests and even differences, as well as the development of relations in terms of the eu-russia strategic partnership, both at the level of regional economic integration, trade issues, wto commitments, as well as other international commitments and major foreign business challenges, notably with syria. the eu remains committed to deepening and developing relations with russia, taking into account existing cooperation in the economic, energy and trade sectors and good neighbourly relations between them, which are essential for the stability, security and prosperity of europe and its neighbours, and i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i know . the eu-russia summit on 28 january 2014 was an opportunity to reflect on the eu-russia strategic partnership and to clarify some of the points of divergence. the small format of the summit is a reflection of the current eu-russia relationship and the challenges it presents. there is a growing need to establish a permanent and constructive dialogue on common borders as well as on the various regional economic integration initiatives and their trade implications on the basis of the world trade organisation, with a view to working towards a future common economic and trade area. russia is one of the union's most important partners in terms of strategic cooperation, but progress in bilateral relations requires open discussion to clarify the issues that cause disagreement. it is expected that at the next summit to be held in sochi during june 2014, new negotiations for future agreements between the eu and russia can be launched. finally, the work of the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee, which is a platform for the development of cooperation and dialogue between the two sides, is to be welcomed.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, expressing deep concern that the differences between the political leaders, which have been dragging on for four years, have led the council of europe to consider, at an early stage, suspending the right of bosnia-herzegovina to be represented in the organisation. this decision will depend on the positive progress in the implementation of the judgment of the european court of human rights before the elections. i stress that constitutional reform remains essential to transform bosnia and herzegovina into an effective and fully functioning state. i urge the federation to consider concrete proposals in this respect, including the merger of some cantons and the division of powers, with a view to simplifying its complex institutional structure. i believe it is essential to ensure a more balanced representation of all the people and citizens of the country and to eliminate ethnic discrimination. i believe that efforts should be made to make bosnia and herzegovina a more functional state, less burdensome and more accountable to its citizens.
in writing. - i am concerned about the lack of common vision demonstrated by the political leaders of the three ethnic communities in the country; it is important that all levels of power in the country step up cooperation and dialogue in order to improve the lives of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. i welcome the fact that cooperation with civil society has improved, but institutional mechanisms for cooperation between state institutions and civil society organisations still need to be created, and i call for the involvement of civil society in the eu accession process to be strengthened in a regular and structured way.
- the institutional architecture of bosnia and herzegovina indicated the imperfect and unfinished way in which the country was (re) built up after the war that devastated it and seriously victimized its populations. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union. the european union seems to be the natural destiny of this country, but i believe that this destiny will take time to materialize and may even be called into question by the centrifugal forces that threaten the cohesion of bosnia. the three communities must give unambiguous signals that they are capable of undertaking a joint effort that benefits all three and promotes their reconciliation. the european union can and must continue to make a strong contribution to this, but it cannot replace the people, their leaders, their decisions and priorities. it is up to the bosnians to show what they are capable of.
in writing. - this resolution supports the maintenance of bosnia-herzegovina's status as an eu and nato protectorate, keeping open the wounds of a fratricidal war in which they had a decisive responsibility. the majority of meps are not afraid to demand constitutional reform and a negotiating process aimed at integrating the country into the eu. how's that? through: necessary changes to the electoral law...; the creation of an effective eu coordination mechanism, ensuring the harmonised transposition and application of the eu acquis throughout the country...; the establishment of a single economic area; the restart and acceleration of the privatisation process.... instead of helping to heal the wounds that remain open, the prospect of eu accession and the implementation of this neoliberal script feed the permanent instability that has been experienced throughout the region since the end of yugoslavia. the eu membership must be essentially a decision of each people, a right that is denied to them in a country where this exercise is conditional on the maintenance of the protectorate, which shows the increasingly undemocratic character of the eu.
in the case of bosnia-herzegovina, the european union has already taken action to ensure that the country is able to join the european union. the holding of peaceful, free and fair local elections was an important step in this direction. however, there are still areas which need to be improved in order to progress towards full membership. it is still essential, however, that all political forces have common positions on certain issues, particularly with regard to the three ethnic communities in the country. the political forces need to intensify cooperation and dialogue in order to overcome the existing disputes, to make progress on the path of reforms and to improve the lives of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. it is also important that civil society is more actively involved in the efforts to reform the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for consensus among the various political leaders of the three ethnic communities of bosnia-herzegovina, through dialogue and cooperation, to create a consensus that will allow progress to be made on institutional reform and also on eu-related reforms that will allow this period of stagnation to be overcome and the necessary reforms to be resumed in view of the status of a country which is a candidate for eu membership.
in writing. - in contributing to the prospects of accession, the european union remains strongly committed to a sovereign and united bosnia and herzegovina (bih). however, growing concern over the lack of a common vision, demonstrated by political leaders of the country's three ethnic communities, cannot be ignored. there must be a change in the nationalist and ethnocentric rhetoric that has been exalted by them. this divergence between leaders has been going on for four years, and the council of europe has already considered suspending the country's right to representation if progress is not made, according to the european court of human rights, before the elections in october. constitutional reform is the key to transforming bih into a functioning and effective state, contributing to the elimination of ethnic discrimination. currently bih has an inefficient judicial system and is unable to implement court decisions, which are the target of political attacks. this is still a country of origin, transit and destination for trafficking in women, to which organized crime, money laundering and the trafficking of drugs and goods are added. however, the improvement in cooperation with neighbouring countries on border control is welcome.
in writing. - this resolution does not denounce or call into question, but supports the status of bosnia-herzegovina as a protectorate and thus helps to keep open the wounds of a fratricidal war for which the major powers of the eu and nato bear a decisive responsibility. the commission is also proposing that the council and the european commission should intervene in the current process of constitutional reform and initiate a negotiating process aimed at integrating the country into the eu. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a single economic area and for the resumption and acceleration of the privatisation process. it stresses the importance of following the principles of federalism. instead of helping to heal the wounds that remain open, it feeds the permanent instability that has been experienced throughout the region since the break-up of yugoslavia, which is unacceptable. the eu membership must be a decision of the individual peoples. a people without sovereignty - and the people of bosnia-herzegovina do not have it - will have a strong influence on the decision on its accession.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, beginning by deploring the deterioration of the country's reputation with regard to freedom of the press. i share the commission's concern about safeguarding freedom of expression, and about ensuring a diverse and pluralistic media, free from political interference. whereas this remains a crucial challenge for the country which has a lack of media pluralism partly due to official propaganda. i stress the need to ensure the independence and sustainability of public service broadcasting, and encourage the authorities to adopt safeguards in the press law in this regard. i also believe that the current press law should be subject to a new consultation and dialogue, so that such important reforms can only be decided with the broad support of the entire journalistic community in the country. to this end, more efforts are needed to restore and rebuild trust between the government and the media. the european union can contribute to this by publishing a white paper on strengthening relations between civil society and the media, which should be an important basis for starting this process.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the commission has decided to extend the mandate of the european union to the middle east and to extend it to the countries of the former soviet union. it is important that the country consolidates reforms and reviews policies and practices that may still constitute an obstacle to its european future and to ensure genuine progress in key areas.
in writing. - less than a year ago i reiterated my call to greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to try to overcome their differences and to be able to prove themselves faithful to the generous and founding european spirit that we all so badly need. i hope that the european union and the other member states will actively contribute to the success of this convergence. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the applicant countries. i hope that the greek presidency will be able to demonstrate its openness and negotiating capacity and set the example that it has been lacking in the objective assessment of macedonian progress which must not be overlooked or minimized in the face of the question of the name of the country which still pits the greeks against its inhabitants.
in the light of the recent events in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the commission is proposing to extend the period of application of the new rules to the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. the impasse in negotiations with greece over the country's name is a reflection of this process. instead of emphasising dialogue and a mutually acceptable solution respecting the sovereignty of both peoples, this proposal is once again putting pressure and promoting interference with the aim of accelerating the start of the eu accession negotiations of the jma. from the eu's perspective, the interests of the big economic and financial groups, its great powers and nato override all others, whatever the consequences, something we should not be surprised about, because it is this same convergence of interests that has led people living side by side for many years in peace and progress to war. the resolution also stresses the support of the majority of meps for the inseparability of eu and nato enlargements.
in writing. - in the 2013 interim report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the commission considered that the country continues to sufficiently fulfil the political criteria for eu accession and recommends as a priority for the next year the implementation and enforcement of existing legal and political frameworks. for these reasons i am voting in favour of this interim report.
in the light of the recent events in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the accession procedure to the period from 1 january 1997 to 31 december 2000. the country is encouraged to consolidate the reforms and political practices which may still be an obstacle to its european future, stressing that all the commitments undertaken by the country under the stabilisation and association agreement have been fulfilled to date. it should be recalled that good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation are one of the essential pillars of the eu accession process. consequently, and in view of the albanian minority in the country and the sensitive bilateral issues with the neighbouring countries, greece and bulgaria, an openness to intensive dialogue between all parties in the spirit of the common european future must be fostered. the positive, constructive role that the country has played in terms of regional cooperation is also noteworthy, with participation in various initiatives such as the central european initiative (cei) and the regional initiative for migration, asylum and refugees (marri).
in writing. - as in other republics of the former yugoslavia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is unstable and a destabilising factor for the whole region. the negotiations with greece on the country's designation are still ongoing, in a process surrounded by a nationalist rhetoric which, instead of bringing people together, is driving them apart. this proposal is once again aimed at speeding up the date for the opening of accession negotiations, which is disrespectful to the sovereignty of the peoples of both countries and only serves to exacerbate existing divisions and rifts. the eu accession is a process of sovereign decision of each people, as is the right to economic and social development. it should be up to each people to make their own decisions, without any outside interference. the people must decide on the basis of a true knowledge of the meaning of the criteria required by the eu for a country to become a member, namely the criterion of the existence of a market economy. it is unacceptable that the interests of the yugoslav republic of macedonia's accession to nato, an inseparable process of the eu's militarization and the enlargement of its spheres of influence in the balkan region, should override the interests and rights of the people. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, considering very positive the participation of montenegro in various initiatives, such as the initiatives related to regional reconciliation and the western balkans six project, as well as the desire of the government to take the lead in regional cooperation initiatives. i therefore urge montenegro to strengthen its cultural and economic cooperation with the neighbouring member states of the european union. i congratulate the government on maintaining good bilateral relations with all its neighbours, including kosovo. however, i stress the need to resolve the dispute with croatia on land and sea borders quickly, particularly in view of the preliminary offshore oil exploration. i also encourage the definitive demarcation of the borders with serbia, bosnia-herzegovina and kosovo in order to eliminate possible sources of tension. i do not, however, fail to welcome the progress made in the process of the sarajevo declaration, including the implementation of the regional housing programme.
in writing. - i welcome the inclusion of civil society representatives in the negotiating structures and call on the government to demonstrate the utmost transparency during the negotiation and accession process. the government and parliament have a responsibility to inform in a transparent manner all interested parties and to facilitate the broad participation of these parties in this process. the integration process must be fully participated in by parliament and civil society organisations and enjoy broad democratic support. it is important that the government focuses on increasing economic growth to combat poverty and implement structural reforms to attract and retain foreign direct investment, which is crucial for diversifying the economy.
in writing. - the opening of five new negotiating chapters indicates the seriousness with which montenegro is taking its accession to the european union, a fact which i cannot but welcome. while it is true that there is still a long way to go before full membership is achieved, montenegro is nevertheless a good example of convergence with the union and commitment to its values. i hope that it will continue along this path and that it will be able to strengthen its ties with the union, which must be attentive to its progress and encourage it.
in writing. - after having divided, attacked and opened wounds among the peoples of the former yugoslavia, the great powers of the eu and nato intend to impose their economic domination, exploit their peoples and their natural resources. despite the evidence showing that the eu is not a project of progress, particularly for countries with weaker economies like montenegro, eu membership remains a goal to be achieved at any cost for the big capital of this country and the eu, particularly the big powers. the majority of meps in this report advocate, as a condition for accession, the amendment of their labour legislation, the electoral law, the end of the sovereign mechanisms for protecting the economy and productive activity, destroying smes and small and medium-sized farmers, the implementation of privatisations, among other neoliberal measures that are contrary to the interests of the montenegrins. in this proposal, montenegro's commitment to join nato and its contribution to its missions is welcomed as another positive step towards eu membership, demonstrating once again the link between eu and nato enlargement, with the former being the european pillar of the latter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on montenegro's progress in 2013 which includes five new negotiating chapters (december 2013) and encourages the early resumption of accession negotiations, provided that reforms are pursued and implemented and concrete results are achieved. it also recognises the progress made by the country towards european integration, including the enthusiasm for the european project, both from the political spectrum and from society in general.
in the light of the recent events, the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the protocol to the convention on the protection of the mediterranean against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources. five new negotiating chapters were opened in 2013 and constitutional amendments were made to strengthen the independence of the judiciary in order to reduce political pressure on the appointment of prosecutors and steps were taken to streamline the country's judicial system. however, there is still a long way to go. the public's confidence in the electoral system needs to be improved and parliament should speed up electoral reform, as there is an urgent need for a single, fully transparent and accountable voter registration system. the fight against corruption and organised crime must be strengthened through investigations, prosecutions and sentencing at all levels. freedom of communication is vital for the full exercise of democracy. verbal and physical intimidation of journalists has been on the rise, and it is the responsibility of all those in politics and the media to foster a climate of tolerance and respect. this same tolerance must be extended to all aspects of civil society, such as the inclusion of minorities and the acceptance of homosexuality, which is still frequently the target of violence.
in writing. - after having divided, attacked and opened wounds among the peoples of the former yugoslavia, the great powers of the eu and nato intend to impose their economic domination, exploit their peoples and their natural resources. despite the evidence showing that the eu is not a project of progress, particularly for countries with weaker economies like montenegro, eu membership remains a goal to be achieved at any cost for the big capital of this country and the eu, particularly the big powers. the majority of meps in this report, and as a condition for accession, advocate the amendment of their labour legislation, the electoral law, the end of sovereign mechanisms for protecting the economy and productive activity - destroying smes and small and medium-sized farmers' production, the implementation of privatisations, among other neoliberal measures that are contrary to the interests of montenegrins. the proposal welcomes montenegro's commitment to join nato and its contribution to its missions, and considers it a positive step towards eu membership, demonstrating once again the link between eu and nato enlargement, with the former being the european pillar of the latter. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, stressing that international, european and national institutions play a key role in preventing fgm, protecting women and girls and identifying victims. i firmly believe that it is essential to adopt measures prohibiting gender-based violence, including female genital mutilation. in this respect, i consider the eu's commitment to continue protesting and promoting the abandonment of this practice in the countries where it still occurs to be of great importance. i repeat my call on the commission to come forward as soon as possible with a legislative proposal from the european union to establish measures to prevent all forms of violence against women (including fgm). and as stated in the stockholm programme, to include in the proposal a comprehensive eu approach to the issue, including joint structured action plans, with a view to ending fgm in the european union. i would also stress the need for the commission and the eeas to take a firm stand against third countries which do not condemn fgm.
in writing. - according to un figures, more than 140 million girls, young women and women have been subjected to female genital mutilation and more than 30 million girls are at risk of being victims of this extreme act of violence over the next decade. female genital mutilation is a violation of fundamental rights and the rights of the child which cannot in any case be justified by any tradition or religion. i welcome the european union's commitment to prevent female genital mutilation, to improve support for victims and, in collaboration with the european external action service, to strengthen international dialogue. the role of international, european and national institutions is crucial for the prevention of female genital mutilation, the protection of women and girls, the identification of victims and the adoption of measures prohibiting gender-based violence. it is essential to closely involve civil society in awareness-raising campaigns, but also in the development of educational and training material in order to eradicate these practices. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i welcome the eu's commitment to provide funding to prevent female genital mutilation, improve support for victims, strengthen international dialogue and encourage research activities with a view to clearly identifying women and children at risk.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial contribution to the fight against fraud is not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. this practice, justified on religious grounds in many parts of the world, particularly in africa, is nothing more than a clear violation of the rights of women and girls which must be combated and deserves european action to try to eliminate it.
- the international, european and national institutions play a decisive role in preventing female genital mutilation, protecting women and girls, identifying victims and adopting measures to prohibit gender-based violence, including female genital mutilation. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - female genital mutilation (fgm) is thought to affect over 125 million women worldwide, of which 500 000 are in the european union. it is internationally recognised as one of the most cruel forms of violence against women and a clear violation of their human rights. the commission's communication 'towards the elimination of female genital mutilation' is welcome, in which we commit ourselves to using eu funding to prevent fgm and to significantly improve support for victims. the role of international, european and member state institutions is vital for the prevention of fgm and the protection of victims. i believe that it is increasingly necessary and urgent that prevention measures against all forms of violence against women, including fgm, be established as an integral part of a comprehensive european strategy. the resolution calls on the commission to designate 2016 as the european year for the elimination of violence against women and girls and has therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - fgm affects between 100 and 140 million women and girls worldwide. at a time when the new millennium goals from 2015 are being discussed, it is of the utmost importance that women's rights and gender equality are at the heart of these new goals; similarly, women's rights and the fight against violence against women and girls should be considered as priority objectives. it is important to set concrete objectives and measures, with concrete commitments, for the eradication of female genital mutilation, the reduction of infant mortality, the improvement of maternal health, with a strong focus on the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women worldwide. as we know, fgm has a terrible impact on women's reproductive and sexual health. it is essential that there are coordinated strategies to end all forms of violence against women, based on human rights and the principle of equality between men and women. the numbers of this macabre crime cannot continue to rise if we are to move in the direction of social progress.
in writing. - i support this resolution, stressing the importance of high-quality infrastructure as a condition for the development and integration of the transeuropean transport network, inland waterway transport and river ports. i urge the commission and the member states to integrate all the major bottlenecks into the corridor implementation plans to be adopted. i would also like to stress that the connecting europe facility (cef) gives priority funding to the development of infrastructure for the most environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as inland waterways. i welcome the fact that inland waterways have been incorporated into six of the nine corridors of the ten-t core network. i hope that bottlenecks and missing links will be properly addressed, as the cef will give priority to the costs of removing bottlenecks, establishing missing links and, in particular, improving cross-border sections of the core network.
in writing. - i think it is an excellent initiative by the european commission to update and renew the naiades programme until 2020, as this programme supports specific actions defined in the naiades programme and has a major impact on the activity of smes operating in the sector. high-quality infrastructure is a necessary condition for the development and integration of inland waterway transport and river ports into the transeuropean transport network, and i therefore support it.
in writing. - given the importance of the inland waterway transport sector and its significant contribution to the transport system of the european union, in particular in the routing of goods from ports to the interior of the eu and its role in solving congestion problems, as well as its energy efficiency, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to support the management of integrated multimodal transport. i agree with support for the expansion and integration of the exchange of ris data into information flows on other modes of transport to facilitate the integration of inland waterway transport into other modes of transport and support for concrete measures which take into account the specificities of a sector largely based on smes - the engines of the european economy.
inland waterway transport allows a shift from highways to inland waterways, which is expressed in the white paper on transport as essential for better environmental performance. like shipping, inland waterway transport needs a real strategy with feasible actions, measures, targets and deadlines. the presentation of the naiades ii programme demonstrates this will on the part of the commission, but the important thing is not to forget that the results of this action plan have to be real and concrete. this requires a real investment, which must be defined in the union's policies. as i believe that maritime transport and motorways of the sea should be developed, in particular by the commission and the member states, i am in favour of the same approach for inland waterways.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council. nor can mr audy, and i doubt that some of those sitting in this house, say the same about their respective countries. it is regrettable that the coup plotters who were defeated in 2002 do not recognize the sovereign will of the majority of the venezuelan people. but even more regrettable are the manoeuvres like the one being tried here by the epp, which is to try to use this house in favour of these frankly minority interests in venezuelan society.
we are in favour of ambitious targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from passenger cars. we are in favour of efforts in the field of research and development of more modern and environmentally friendly propulsion concepts and their industrial application. in this, as in other areas, the public interest must always prevail over sectoral private interests, but there is one essential question in this debate which we must insist on: the commission's proposal is that the technical and scientific progress made so far does not prevent the automobile society as we know it from being, to a large extent, doomed in the long run. and it is today that that future is anticipated and prepared. it is imperative to strengthen, develop, modernise and increase all forms of public transport, especially electrically driven ones, in order to challenge the primacy given to individual transport, especially in cities. unfortunately, this has not been the case in portugal, for example, where the troika and the european union have been under pressure to attack public transport companies in recent years, leading to a 20% reduction in passenger numbers.
we in the green group have always considered the fight against organised crime, money laundering and money laundering to be very important to be done at european level. it is not a regional problem, it is a problem for the whole of our union and it diverts resources which could be much better used for social, cultural or, for example, investment in employment and the rule of law in our countries. we were not in favour of the report in the first phase of this report in committee because we thought that it was still very lacking in safeguards and procedural rights which protect people who might be, say, wrongly convicted in these cases. but now, after the agreement on first reading with the council, we believe that these procedural aspects are reviewed, they are secured and we are pleased to welcome this proposal for a directive and we will vote on it tomorrow. finally, i would urge the commission to make use of the tools, which are only voluntary for the time being, which allow the use, the reuse for social purposes of assets confiscated from the mafia. we must not forget that the assets confiscated from organised crime have undermined faith in institutions and the rule of law, they must be used to reinforce that same rule of law in our societies and enable assets and capital to be used for the good of us all.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament madam commissioner, dear colleague agustín díaz de mera, i am a witness to the importance you attached to collaboration during the work we did on this europol report, it was an intense collaboration, also with all the other shadow rapporteurs, and i thank you for that, especially as we came from two different positions on what europol is. in your case, by saying that europol is, above all, a coordinating agency of the police agencies of the member states. in my case, i said that europol is, and will increasingly be in the future, an agency through which we give the union attributes which are typical of the states and that at least the precautionary principle should oblige us to strengthen our democratic control over this agency. this difference in perspective has not prevented us from agreeing on many things and achieving many things together, such as rejecting the merger between europol and ecpol or increasing parliamentary scrutiny in the european parliament and national parliaments or also inserting a clause that was proposed by the greens to prevent the processing of data obtained in violation of fundamental rights. i should add, however, i am sorry, mr president, just for a second, that there is a red line which is the same as we have had in the committee, which is direct access to data held by private companies. as in committee, we will vote against this access and it is a red line to pass this report and i hope you will take that into account.
mr president, we are of course in favour of allowing residents of third countries to enter, reside and work in the european union. we advocate that they can do so on terms of dignity, which today are denied to many of them. but this proposal on the conditions of entry and residence for the purpose of research and study is a good indication of the selective nature of the european union's immigration policies. the aim is clear: to compensate for the shortage and brain drain that is affecting several countries, which is inseparable from the decline in the conditions for scientific work and the growing obstacles to access to knowledge and advanced training; to compensate for this with the attraction of brains from third countries; to attract a skilled workforce, in accordance with the needs of some of the major powers, compensating for the flight with a reverse flight with the same harmful consequences. for others, however, the fortress europe, which criminalizes immigration and migrants, remains in force.
madam president, we do not question, on the contrary, we highly value the feelings of altruism and genuine solidarity and generosity which lead many europeans to embrace volunteering in very different forms in developing countries. but even so, we cannot here express any reservations about this proposal to create a european union volunteer corps for humanitarian aid. we must move away from a certain instrumental view of volunteering, which seeks to express through it values and sentiments that are far from being present in the general action of the european union and particularly in its sectoral policies, some of which have particularly harmful effects in developing countries. the proposal also has other nuances and implications which, in general, do not seem to us to contribute as much as would be desirable and necessary to the strengthening of development cooperation. some of the concerns are right, others should be the solutions.
in writing. violence against women is a serious violation of human rights. statistics reveal that one in five women is a victim of domestic violence and one in ten is raped or forced into sexual acts. domestic or family violence affects about 55 percent of victims. the costs associated with domestic violence are high. recent estimates estimate that the cost of gender-based violence against women in the eu was €228 billion in 2011 (i.e. 1.8% of eu gdp). experts stress that the number of unreported cases is very high, due to social stigma and the usual indifference towards sexual violence against women. offenders are rarely tried and almost never convicted. the commission should submit a proposal to promote and support member states' action in the field of preventing violence against women. violence against women is one of the greatest obstacles to the achievement of equality and an attack on democracy. it is necessary to eliminate stereotypes and myths, to change gender representations and values that have perpetuated the existence of unequal relationships in the family, school and social environments. we are all called to this fight against gender violence.
mr president, prostitution affects between 40 and 42 million people worldwide, the overwhelming majority of whom are women. this is both a cause and a consequence of gender inequalities. it is well established that economic problems, poverty and social exclusion are the main causes of prostitution and that prostitution is closely linked to organised crime. the market for prostitution increases the trafficking of women and children. there is a great disparity in the way member states deal with this issue. some view prostitution as a violation of women's rights, a form of sexual slavery that perpetuates gender inequalities. others claim that women have the right to do whatever they want with their bodies. the nordic model seems to be the best safeguard for the dignity of women, but the proper training of police and judicial staff must be promoted. prostitution cannot be a profession.
mr president, 96% of the people who prostitute themselves in the world are women. prostitution clearly contributes to the perpetuation of inequality between men and women and is unquestionably a form of brutal violence. it is not an old profession, but an old form of violence against women, a reflection of the social and economic inequalities that capitalism has reproduced. a capitalism which considers everything to be saleable and marketable, including intimacy, treating women as commodities and using them for the profit of pimps who, in countries where prostitution is legal, become respectable night-time businessmen. in a progressive society, work is a source of individual fulfillment as a productive contribution to society. anyone who thinks that a woman who sells her intimacy and dignity for the sexual satisfaction of the male buyer feels fulfilled must be mistaken. the abolitionist perspective, which is largely defended in this report, considers women to be victims whom the state must protect, accompany and integrate, and criminalizes those who profit for their own account and who feed this process of exploitation, the clients.
mr president, mr kourkoulas, the greek minister for finance, and mr barroso, who has unfortunately left and cannot hear us in response to what he has said, have come here to speak about a turning point in european policy. there has indeed been a shift in european policy following the financial crisis. it was a turn of events which led the european institutions to impose on the countries and economies of the periphery programmes of wage cuts, job insecurity, the dismantling and privatisation of public services, tax increases... in short, whatever it takes to achieve budgetary adjustment. that was the european union project. this in portugal has translated into a doubling of unemployment, it has translated into the biggest increase in public debt that we have ever known in the history of democracy. in greece, it has resulted in a 40% increase in infant mortality. anyway, how many more people does it take to get poor, to get homeless, to realize that this program has failed? and so it's not worth just changing the slogan. because to say that budgetary adjustment is now job-friendly without changing policy is the same as saying that the european institutions want to fail, but now twice.
mr president, the president of the european commission said here today that it will take some time to solve the problem of unemployment. it is obviously true, but it is especially true if we persist in pursuing recessionary policies which destroy thousands of jobs every day, which increase precariousness and which will, in turn, create more unemployment. it is not an innocent contradiction, but a deliberate one, tailored to the objective of accumulating income in the big economic and financial groups. indeed, as the data show about inequalities, about the level of profit growth and about the decreasing weight of wages in the economy. the gutiérrez prieto report is nothing new. social democracy fulfils its historical role of keeping everything the same, but pretending that something changes. but it's all written there. the defence of the flexibility of the labour market against its supposed rigidity read as acquired rights of workers , the defence of budgetary consolidation, which transfers workers' incomes to the private sector, but in a slower way, and also the reduction in the cost of wages, but this time accompanied by other measures, also the defence of the increase in the retirement age. yes, economic governance and the european semester need democratic participation, as has been said here. the workers fight against these policies every day, but it seems that no one here in this parliament, or at least the majority, is interested in such participation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president of the council, this report on the european semester makes us think about the origin of the semester itself. it was introduced, again with the intervention of the european parliament, as part of the six-pack, a package of legislation which was responding to a situation of serious crisis in europe, with high deficits, with uncontrollable debts, with some states in a situation of total inability to pay salaries, pensions and to comply with the minimum required of a state. and that's why, in the analysis of the semester, you have to think about something very simple: you can't go back to those times. it is necessary to distinguish between those states and those governments which have entered into a crisis and those states and those governments which are emerging from the same crisis. mr schwab was just talking about the case of portugal. i can say that portugal is exporting more at the moment. portugal is currently facing unemployment prospects which, although high, are below forecasts. you're in a business-creation situation. i mean, the old-fashioned way is starting to make sense. there are positive signs that are becoming more and more evident. and that is why we must make a very clear distinction in these analyses of the european semester between the policies that have brought us into a crisis and the policies that are leading us out of the same crisis. and this is an analysis which we must also make at european level.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating my fellow rapporteurs and to say that the crisis has had serious social consequences, especially in terms of increasing unemployment. but today we can say that the worst is over. fiscal consolidation and structural reforms are laying the foundations for economic recovery. in this context of the european semester, positive economic indicators are already visible in the union, as well as in my country, portugal. the unemployment rate in portugal has fallen for the tenth consecutive month. on top of that, employment has been growing for three quarters in a row. the portuguese economy is already growing, and portugal has already implemented much of its reform agenda. in view of these positive figures, my country will conclude its assistance programme next may. this has been a difficult stage for our portuguese fellow citizens, but also for the spanish, the irish and the cypriots, who have been able to respond with great sacrifices and a high sense of patriotism to remedy the wrong policies of the past. we still have a clear priority, ending unemployment. it is therefore important that the commission continue to help member states with limited budgets to invest more in education, research and innovation and energy to increase the union's competitiveness and productivity. i would like to conclude by calling for the unspent structural funds to be reprogrammed in favour of employment programmes and support for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that on 7 june 2013, at 13.08, in the town of szyldak, poland, a speed control device detected that a vehicle owned by tadeusz cymański was travelling at 86 km/h in an area where the speed limit is 50 km/h. a summons was sent to the owner of the vehicle, dated 3 july 2013, concerning this infringement. in response to that summons, mr cymański sent the inspectorate-general for road traffic a declaration, drawn up on a pre-printed form, that he agreed to pay the fine without revealing the identity of the person who was driving the vehicle at the time of the infringement, contrary to his obligation.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has the power to adopt decisions which are binding on the member states. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the public prosecutor of the republic of poland has submitted a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr tadeusz cymański in respect of a request by the general inspectorate of road traffic for the authorisation to bring criminal proceedings against a member of the european parliament in respect of the infringement referred to in article 96 (3) of the code of criminal procedure in force in poland. the alleged infringement has no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr tadeusz cymański, and does not constitute an opinion or vote expressed in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union i therefore vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of tadeusz cymanski.
in the light of the above, i would ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. since the committee on legal affairs considers that the case which will be brought against tadeusz cymański has no connection with his current position as a member of the european parliament, i agree that a decision should be taken to waive tadeusz cymański's parliamentary immunity. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in the light of the report submitted by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, and in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i am voting in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the financial crisis and economic recession have since 2009 affected financial stability and economic growth in the european union in general and in particular in the member states under external financial assistance. the latter have been subject to macroeconomic adjustment programmes agreed with the european commission, initially covering seven member states - cyprus; greece; hungary; ireland; latvia; portugal; romania - and currently only cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal continue to receive financial assistance. these four member states suffer from severe budgetary constraints and liquidity problems resulting from the need for budgetary consolidation, which hamper the implementation of operational programmes. i believe that there is an urgent need to promote conditions which facilitate the management of european union funds, so as to initiate and speed up investments in the member states under financial assistance, by stimulating projects which are indispensable for socioeconomic recovery and sectoral development.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report in order to facilitate the management of union funding, to help accelerate investment in the member states and the regions and to improve the availability of funds for the economy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment from harmful substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemicals and the prevention of the spread of the disease. the necessary constraints imposed by the adjustment programmes with the aim of achieving fiscal consolidation have reduced the investment capacity of the member states in intervention, which in turn makes it difficult to implement the operational programmes and to use the funds available for growth, job creation and improving competitiveness. in the specific case of the european fisheries fund, the extension of the period of application of the co-financing rates increased by 10%, reducing the effort required from national budgets, will allow leveraging and speeding up investments in the fisheries sector, which represents one of the pillars of socioeconomic development and regional development for regions heavily dependent on fishing activity. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report, which allows member states under financial assistance and adjustment programmes to continue to have the financial means to implement projects under fisheries policy properly.
in writing. - this ensures that the continuation of the fisheries policy is not jeopardised and that the member states receive the financial support necessary to implement it. i therefore consider this to be one of the most important measures the european union has been taking to ensure that the countries in economic difficulties receive the financial support they need. in recent years, seven member states have had to resort to macroeconomic adjustment programmes: portugal, cyprus, hungary, romania, latvia, greece and ireland. in order to ensure that these countries do not jeopardise the funding needed to implement the fisheries programme policies, the european parliament decided today to ensure that the european commission can make higher contributions to these countries during the implementation of the macroeconomic adjustment programmes.
in writing. - in 2011, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation amending articles 76 and 77 of regulation (ec) no 1198/2006, which provides that interim payments and the final balance are calculated by applying the co-financing rate for each priority axis provided for in the commission decision adopting the operational programme concerned. this proposal provided for an increased co-financing rate for countries targeted by eu-imf programmes. this provision was applied until 31 december 2013. but since the adjustment programmes are still in force in some member states, such as portugal, the commission is now proposing to extend the increase in cofinancing beyond the initial period in order to ensure the implementation of the operational programmes of the european fisheries fund. we agreed to this increase, which we have been demanding for a long time. we therefore also agree with this extension, which is justified and necessary to ensure that, by the end of the eligibility period and the submission of the final payment claim, the reimbursement of the expenditure declared again, by applying the 10% increase, above the co-financing rates for the priority axes of the 2007-2013 operational programmes co-financed by the eff, is ensured.
in writing. - the member states in receipt of assistance are faced with severe budgetary constraints, which create liquidity problems resulting from the need for budgetary consolidation and make it difficult to implement operational programmes. as a result, these member states have a reduced capacity for investment, both in the public and private sectors, which makes it more difficult to use the funds available for growth and improving competitiveness. i therefore agree that the increased co-financing for member states under financial assistance should be maintained, making available in advance financial resources essential in the current crisis situation and facilitating the proper implementation of operational programmes under the eff. in the current context of financial instability and economic contraction, the commission's proposal is the only alternative to allow projects and investments in the fisheries sector to continue. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. this document, for which i was rapporteur to the european parliament, aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 to assist member states currently receiving financial assistance, in order to allow them to continue to have financial means to implement projects and investments under the fisheries sector policy. this regulation, which was applicable until 31 december 2013, allowed for a 10% increase in the co-financing rates for the priority axes of operational programmes co-financed by the european fisheries fund (eff 2007-2013), making payments to member states more flexible without changing the overall budgetary allocation of eu funding. i therefore proposed to extend the application of the 10% increase until the closure of the programmes supported by the eff, allowing it to be applied until the end of the eligibility period and the submission of the final payment claim, even if the member state is no longer under financial assistance at that time. this report makes it possible to make payments more flexible and to improve the implementation rates of operational programmes, thus boosting the development of projects and investments in the fisheries sector.
in writing. - since 2009 europe has been suffering the serious consequences of the financial crisis and economic recession, and in particular the member states that are under financial assistance, such as cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal. conditions must be created to facilitate the management of eu funds, as these member states currently have a limited capacity for investment, both in the public and private sectors. this document sets out measures to assist assisted countries in obtaining the financial resources needed to implement projects under the fisheries sector policy. to this end, the early provision of resources and a more streamlined and rapid financing process are provided for. i voted in favour of this report because it is an essential step towards growth and improving the competitiveness of the countries concerned.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that in 2007-08, after the introduction of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, a first harmonisation exercise was carried out. at that time the conference of presidents gave the committee on legal affairs the power to deal with the merits of the case and designated the specialised committees as committees responsible for delivering opinions. in the context of the adoption by the conference of committee chairmen, its approach to the new proposals for harmonization was confirmed. on 19 november 2013, and following this action, the modalities of cooperation between the committee on legal affairs and the other specialised committees were adopted. my view is in line with that of the rapporteur and the committees consulted when they oppose most of the adaptations of provisions providing for the use of prc in the system of implementing acts. i think the committee's proposals fail because they lack detailed and individual justification.
in the light of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, i am voting in favour of this report.
- in accordance with this declaration and following the examination of the legislation in force, the commission has presented three proposals for regulations adapting to article 290 tfeu a number of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in fact, the definition of delegated acts in article 290 (1) tfeu is very similar to the definition of acts to which the regulatory procedure with scrutiny applies, as laid down in article 5a of decision 1999/468/ec, which is now repealed by article 12 of the comitology regulation. i'm all for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament which provides for the adaptation of legal acts to the treaty of lisbon and by which the powers conferred on the commission by the legislator have been substantially amended. a distinction is made between delegated powers - the commission may adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of a legislative act - and implementing powers - powers conferred on the commission to adopt implementing acts. it is essential to adapt legal acts in accordance with the new established procedure, by preparing the appropriate legislative initiatives to complete the adaptation to the new legal framework. the commission should be required to resubmit its proposal and to reflect a substantial change in the text so that the power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the commission subject to certain conditions and is limited.
in writing. - this case is part of a package of three proposals adopted by the commission to adapt the numerous legislative instruments which still contain provisions providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rpd) to the lisbon treaty regime on delegated and implementing acts. the rapporteur and the specialised committees consulted are opposed to most of the adaptations of provisions providing for the use of prc to the regime of implementing acts, which are proposed by the commission without a detailed and individual justification. therefore, except in special cases, most of the provisions included by the commission in annex ii have been moved to annex i. similarly, most deletions in annex iii that have not been justified are deleted and converted into delegated acts. i voted in favour of this report, in accordance with the methodology.
- the regulation on implementing acts was adopted at the end of 2010. the commission then undertook to align all provisions relating to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny under articles 290 and 291 tfeu by the end of the current legislature. parliament's position on aligning the regulatory procedure with scrutiny concerns the adaptation of 30 legislative acts (omnibus iii). the commission has concluded that some of these measures do not fall within the scope of article 290 tfeu. it proposed that, where it considers that such measures do not meet the criteria of article 291 tfeu, it should be empowered to adopt implementing acts itself. in other cases, it considered that the powers conferred on it were not in conformity with the treaty and therefore proposed that those provisions be deleted. the rapporteur and the specialised committees consulted do not agree with most of the conclusions and i voted in favour of the european parliament's document.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in 2007-08, after the introduction of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, a first harmonisation exercise was carried out. at that time the conference of presidents gave the committee on legal affairs competence as to the substance of the matter and designated the specialised committees as committees responsible for delivering opinions. the conference of committee chairs, which adopted this decision, confirmed the approach to the new harmonisation proposals and adopted on 19 november 2013 the modalities of cooperation between the committee on legal affairs and the other specialised committees. this report concerns a proposal covering five legislative acts in the field of justice which still refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. given the specific nature of the matter, which falls entirely within the remit of the committee on legal affairs, no other committee was asked to deliver an opinion. for this reason, i do not oppose the position indicated by this committee.
in the light of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - in accordance with this declaration and following the announced review of the legislation in force, the commission has presented three proposals for regulations adapting to article 290 tfeu a number of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. i am in favour of this report, which concerns a proposal covering the five legal acts in the field of justice which still refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament which provides for the adaptation of legal acts. the powers conferred on the commission by the legislator have been substantially amended by the treaty of lisbon. a distinction is made between delegated powers - the commission may adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of a legislative act - and implementing powers - powers conferred on the commission to adopt implementing acts. it is essential that legal acts be adapted to the new procedure. the commission should be required to resubmit its proposal and to reflect a substantial change in the text so that the power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the commission subject to certain conditions and is limited. as regards the adaptation of legal acts in the field of justice, the need to include in the commission's work programme the alignment of existing acts relating to the former third pillar with the treaty of lisbon, adaptation to the new regulatory hierarchy of basic, delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. - this report concerns a proposal covering five legislative acts in the field of justice which still refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. given the specific nature of the matter, which falls entirely within the remit of the committee on legal affairs, no other committee was asked to deliver an opinion. this report does not contain any amendments. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
- the regulation on implementing acts was adopted at the end of 2010. the commission then undertook to align all provisions relating to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny under articles 290 and 291 tfeu by the end of the current legislature. this report concerns a proposal covering five legislative acts in the field of justice which still refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, as it concerns a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various fields. i support the rapporteur's suggestion that the committees responsible should consider the three proposals as a single package, subject to the same timetable and adopted as soon as possible, so that the harmonization process can be completed, ideally, by the end of the present legislature. this draft report contains a limited number of amendments proposed by the specialised committees in their opinions.
in the light of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the same explanation as in report a7-480/2014 applies: in accordance with this statement and following the announced review of the legislation in force, the commission has presented three proposals for regulations adapting to article 290 tfeu a number of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. i am in favour of this report, which concerns a proposal covering the five legal acts in the field of justice which still refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament which provides for the adaptation of legal acts to the treaty of lisbon and by which the powers conferred on the commission by the legislator have been substantially amended. a distinction is made between delegated powers - the commission may adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of a legislative act - and implementing powers - powers conferred on the commission to adopt implementing acts. it is essential that legal acts be adapted to the new procedure. the commission should be required to resubmit its proposal and to reflect a substantial change in the text so that the power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the commission subject to certain conditions and is limited.
in the first place, the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the rapporteur suggested that the committees should consider the three proposals as a single package, subject to the same timetable and adopted as soon as possible, so that the harmonization process could be completed, ideally, by the end of the current legislature. this draft report contains a limited number of amendments proposed by the specialised committees in their opinions and which raise no objections. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
- the regulation on implementing acts was adopted at the end of 2010. the commission then undertook to align all provisions relating to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny under articles 290 and 291 tfeu by the end of the current legislature. this report concerns a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various fields. the rapporteur suggested that the committees should consider the three proposals as a single package (omnibus i), subject to the same timetable and adopted as soon as possible, so that the harmonization process could be completed by the end of the current legislature. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, having regard to article 286 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which it was consulted by the council (c7-0009/2014), as well as rule 180 of its rules of procedure and the report of the committee on budgetary control. in addition, the committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular with regard to the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in addition, at its meeting on 17 february 2014, the committee on budgetary control heard the candidate proposed by the council for the post of member of the court of auditors. for these reasons, i am in favour of the council's proposal to appoint oskar herics as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i wish oskar herics every success in the important task for which he is appointed, and i am convinced that he will carry out the duties for which he is now appointed with all the dedication and competence.
in the case of the court of auditors, the court of auditors is an independent institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors and to enable him to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name oskar herics.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of oskar herics as a member of the court of auditors. all the data presented for this option, including the replies to the questionnaire for candidates for members of the court of auditors annexed to this report, justified my decision by indicating that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the need for full independence of the members of the court of auditors are met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of oskar herics.
in writing. - section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. member states shall submit a proposal to the council which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. i am voting in favour of the appointment of oskar herics because he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the concept of maternity/paternity leave is not currently covered by the legal provisions governing parliamentary mandate. however, it is recognised as a legitimate reason for the absence of official meetings. in this way, members whose absence has been justified by the president (by presenting supporting documents to the quaestors) for reasons of ill health, serious family circumstances, presence on a mission on behalf of parliament, pregnancy or maternity leave would no longer appear on the attendance sheet with the general and uninformative designation of 'absent'. furthermore, this amendment is solely intended to reduce the negative impact on members' attendance record and the resulting 'parliamentary activity indicators' on websites such as vote watch, in duly justified cases and without any financial implication.
in the light of the report by the committee on constitutional affairs, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the proposal to amend rule 136 is designed to ensure that the names of members whose absence has been justified by the president are entered in the minutes of each part-session as 'excused absence'. in this way, members whose absence has been justified by the president (by presenting supporting documents to the quaestors) for reasons of ill health, serious family circumstances, presence on a mission on behalf of parliament, pregnancy or maternity leave would no longer appear on the attendance sheet as 'absent' members. i'm with you.
in writing. - the rule of procedure which is now to be amended regulates the list of members present. the rapporteur introduces a category of justified absence, covering all possible categories of authorised absence (illness, missions on behalf of the european parliament, serious family reasons, proximity of childbirth or maternity leave). this means that authorised absences will not appear as absent in the attendance list. the committee on women's rights and gender equality, while welcoming the decision that the absence of members for reasons of maternity, paternity or adoption is no longer considered to be not being present, nevertheless proposed a different wording for the rapporteur, which would take into account that maternity, paternity and adoption leave normally involves a long period of absence. this absence must be clearly identified in the statistics. in general, the proposed amendments to the rules of procedure in this narrow area seem to us to be appropriate and justified.
in writing. - i agree that members whose absence has been justified by the president (by presenting supporting documents to the quaestors) for reasons of ill health, serious family circumstances, presence on mission on behalf of parliament, pregnancy or maternity leave should no longer be entered on the attendance sheet as absent members. this amendment reduces the negative impact on members' attendance records and the resulting indicators of parliamentary activity on websites such as vote watch, in duly justified cases. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in accordance with article 212, the afco committee should examine the proposal and decide on its submission to the european parliament. the amendment aims to record the names of members who were not present at the sitting but whose absence was justified by the president (e.g. maternity/paternity leave). the concept of maternity/paternity leave is not covered by the legal provisions governing parliamentary mandate (the 1976 act and the statute of members). it is, however, recognised as a legitimate reason for the absence of official meetings. at present, the rule does not cover authorised absences (granted by the president and managed by the quaestors, pursuant to article 31 of the measures implementing the statute for members). the proposal to amend rule 136 is designed to record in the minutes of each part-session the names of members whose absence has been justified by the president by the indication 'absentee justified'. this amendment aims to reduce the negative impact on members' attendance records and the resulting indicators of parliamentary activity on websites such as vote watch. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - rule 136 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament governs entry in the register. in the current version, this article only distinguishes between members who are present during each session and those who are not. however, the article does not cover duly authorised absences. the proposal to amend rule 136 is designed to record in the minutes of each part-session the names of members whose absence has been justified by the president by stating that they are absent for reasons of ill health, serious family circumstances, presence on a mission on behalf of parliament, pregnancy or maternity leave. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the aim of this proposal is to achieve a significant, but at the same time economically and ecologically sound, reduction in co2 emissions from the latest vehicles. i think it is important to create a reliable benchmark for consumers, such as the fuel consumption of each car model, where all manufacturers would implement a standardised test procedure, called nedc (new european driving cycle). the commission and other institutions are currently developing a new procedure, the worldwide harmonized light duty test procedure (wltp), which will replace the old test cycle and will be introduced by january 2017. in addition, car manufacturers and their suppliers should be encouraged to certify and incorporate into new cars technologies or technology packages (eco-innovations) that can contribute to a reduction in fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report in order to ensure uniform conditions for the application of regulation (ec) no 443/2009 and to confer implementing powers on the commission. those powers shall be exercised in accordance with the regulation.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of transport, the commission has decided to propose a new approach to the problem of co2 emissions. the adoption of community targets for new light commercial vehicles is intended to avoid fragmentation in the internal market resulting from the adoption of different measures at member state level. the rapporteur also points out that this new regulation will also serve as an incentive for the automotive sector to invest in new technologies.
in writing. - the report by mr thomas ulmer deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 443/2009 to define the ways of achieving the 2020 target for the reduction of co2 emissions from new passenger cars. this report sets a target of 95 g co2/km of average emissions for the fleet of new cars registered in the eu in 2020. this objective will apply to manufacturers producing more than 1000 vehicles per year. this implies reductions of 27% in annual fuel consumption compared to the target of 130 g in 2015. i would remind you that motor vehicles have a significant impact on climate change, as they account for 12% of the eu's overall co2 emissions. i also stress the added value of a new, more realistic and reliable test procedure to ensure that it represents real driving conditions and to avoid underestimating real co2 emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. - super credits are still advocated in this report as measures to encourage the production of new, less polluting vehicles, although at lower rates than under the previous legislation. in other words, car manufacturers are allowed to offset the sale of electric vehicles by the sale of polluting vehicles that escape the emission limits defined in the legislation. for each electric car sold, car manufacturers are entitled to 1,3 supercredits, i.e. the permission to sell 1,3 highly polluting cars, without the emissions of these vehicles being counted in the calculation of the average emissions of the manufacturer. the proposal also changes the minimum number of new cars produced by a company so that it is exempted from co2 emission reduction obligations from 500 to 1000. the report also stresses the need for market solutions, which reveals a political and ideological choice. we voted against it. we agree and advocate the urgent need to reduce dependence on fossil fuels by developing and implementing energy alternatives but in the public domain, alongside increased energy efficiency. we advocate the strengthening, development and encouragement and expansion of all public transport, particularly electrically driven transport, especially in cities.
in writing. - the present proposal aims to achieve a significant, but at the same time economically and ecologically sound, reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles, in particular through the application of modern propulsion concepts. although ambitious, the objectives set out in this proposal can be achieved if all those involved are committed to achieving them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to achieve a significant, but at the same time economically and ecologically sound, reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles, in particular through the application of modern propulsion concepts. the proposal allows the fuel consumption of each car model from all manufacturers to be measured by a standardised test procedure, called the nedc (new european driving cycle), which is believed to be an advantage for the consumer.
in writing. - the following report proposes a reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles by applying modern propulsion concepts and taking into account the economic and ecological point of view. the aim is to reach 130 g co2/km by 2015 and the ambitious 95 g co2/km by 2020. the rapporteur also proposes a system of incentives to promote the development and application of innovative and environmentally friendly propulsion concepts. the nedc new european driving cycle, a standardised test procedure, is also introduced, allowing greater comparability between the fuel consumption of each car model from all manufacturers. in parallel, manufacturers of new passenger cars and their suppliers are encouraged to certify and incorporate eco-innovations in order to contribute to reducing fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
in writing. - i welcome this report and it is with great satisfaction that i look forward to the adoption of the long-awaited proposal for the revision of the trade mark system in europe, presented by the commission at the end of march 2013 after several years of work. i am committed to the adoption of these proposals during the current legislature, but i would like to remind you that the short time available will not make this task any easier. the quality of the legislative process cannot be compromised and the opportunity this revision represents for the modernisation of the trade mark system in europe must not be squandered in the pursuit of a convenient agreement between the institutions. the limited time available to prepare this report in the light of this timetable means that most of the main issues requiring amendments to the commission's proposal will be covered. however, i reserve the right to suggest further amendments and proposals at a later stage on topics not included in this report.
in writing. - the european trade mark system has a solid foundation. the procedures followed by the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) generally respond to the needs and expectations of businesses. it is agreed that the coexistence of national and european trade mark systems is essential for the efficient functioning of a trade mark system that meets the requirements of businesses of various sizes, markets and geographical needs. the trade mark serves to distinguish the products and services of a company. it is through this that companies can attract and retain customer loyalty, add value and grow, with beneficial effects on employment. the purpose of the revision of this regulation is to modernise the existing provisions in a targeted manner, by adapting the terminology to the treaty of lisbon and the provisions to the common approach on decentralised agencies, by streamlining the procedures for applying for and registering european trade marks and by increasing legal certainty by clarifying the provisions and removing ambiguities. finally, an appropriate framework for cooperation between the imi and the national institutes is established to promote convergence of practices and the development of common instruments. i therefore support this report.
in the light of the report by the committee on legal affairs and the opinions of the committee on international trade and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the registration and protection of european trade marks is a central element in the european strategy for competitiveness and innovation. i would remind you that it is thanks to trade marks and their proper registration and protection that our companies are able to differentiate themselves on the world market and gain market shares. and it is also through our brands that the innovation we develop in the european space gains monetary value and relevance in the real economy. this is corroborated by a study carried out by the institute for harmonisation in the internal market which estimates that around a quarter (26%) of jobs in the european union are directly or indirectly related to trade marks and their protection. i therefore stress the need to modernise the current system so that it is better able to respond to the needs of european businesses in the global market. in this respect, the revision of existing rules to ensure more effective protection against counterfeiting and forgery will allow for better coordination between national and european levels of protection, encouraging greater complementarity between them.
in the case of the community trade mark system and the ihmi, which have been in existence for more than 15 years, it is reasonable to review the existing rules in order to improve a system which has been very successful. during these years, ihmi has become an effective agency that functions well and has a clear vision of its mission to help the design community in europe. the new tasks entrusted to it, such as the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights and databases on orphan works, are a testament to the trust placed in the agency by both the co-legislators and the commission. i am obviously in favour of a piece of legislation which aims to foster innovation and economic growth by making the trademark registration system agile and accessible.
in writing. - the brand is used to distinguish the products and services of a company. it is through it that companies can attract and retain customer loyalty and add value and grow. the brand acts as an engine of innovation: the need to keep it relevant promotes investment in r&d, which in turn leads to a continuous process of product improvement and development. this dynamic process also has positive effects on employment. the aim of this directive is to promote innovation and economic growth by making eu-wide trade mark registration systems more accessible and efficient for businesses by reducing costs and complexity, and by increasing speed, predictability and legal certainty. those adjustments coincide with efforts to ensure the coexistence and complementarity between the union and member states' trade mark systems.
in writing. - i know . i voted in favour of the wilkström report on the community trade mark because it welcomes and improves the commission's legislative initiative to revise the existing 2009 regulation. the european brand and the european agency which manages it are successful institutions which have made a significant contribution to the construction of the internal market and to their own visibility to economic operators. while i do not agree with all the amendments proposed in the report, i also welcome the strengthening of the independence and financial self-sufficiency of the office for harmonization in the internal market (whose name should be changed to reflect the agency's tasks). in short, this is another step forward in the construction of a trade mark law specific to the eu, as is appropriate for an integrated market without internal frontiers, in which european economic law must gradually replace the different national economic rights.
in writing. - the review of the trade mark system in europe was presented by the commission at the end of march 2013, after several years of work. the short time available cannot compromise the quality of the legislative process, but it was decided to move forward, since the opportunity which this revision represents for the modernisation of the trade mark system in europe should not be wasted. the current review requires changes to the governance of the office for harmonization in the internal market with a view to ensuring its continued independence, ease of use and the competence that have characterised the agency. in agreeing with these ambitions, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the registration and protection of trade marks are of fundamental importance in the activities of industry and services, and account must be taken of counterfeiting at european level. directive 2003/6/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 28 january 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation has completed and updated the legal framework of the european union to protect market integrity. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the proprietor of an eu trade mark has the right to use the relevant legal channels, that there is a european union intellectual property agency and that the european institutions take a more proactive stance to protect the goods and services developed.
- the community trade mark is granted by the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). therefore, a prospective proprietor of a community registered trade mark (ctm) only needs to apply for an application to protect the mark throughout the eu. the national trademark systems coexist with the mrc. both systems are similar and interconnected. for example, a community trade mark application can be made through a national office. in addition, member states shall designate national administrative bodies and courts responsible for the application of the crm. these courts function as community trade mark courts. the main express purpose of the amendments is to make the mark more accessible and efficient for businesses. this should be achieved through cost reductions, simplification and more effective procedures, increasing predictability and legal certainty. we have a number of reservations about the impact that such legislation might have on national trade marks, so we abstained.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european parliament has long been calling on the commission to propose new legislation on confiscation. in its own-initiative report adopted in october 2011, parliament stresses in particular the need for rules on the effective use of extended and non-conviction-based confiscation. rules allowing for the confiscation of property transferred to third parties. parliament also encouraged the introduction into national legal systems of instruments under criminal, civil or tax law, as appropriate, which would make the burden of proof less stringent as regards the origin of property in the possession of a person accused of a crime related to organised crime. i hope that the adoption of this report will strengthen the provisions on confiscation, so as to make it more effective and to make a real contribution to the objective of preventing the proceeds of crime from being used to perpetuate future crimes and/or reinvested in legal activities.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because this directive sets minimum standards. it does not prevent member states from providing for more extensive powers in their national law, in particular as regards their rules on evidence.
- financial profit is the motive of most criminal groups, which at the end of 2009 already amounted to more than 2.1 billion dollars the total amount of the proceeds of criminal activities worldwide. in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, of slowing economic growth and the consequent worsening of the vulnerabilities of our economy, it has become even more urgent to strengthen the protection of the legal economy against the infiltration of crime and corruption, to combat the financial incentives to crime and to return the proceeds of crime to public authorities that serve citizens. although regulated by national legislation and eu standards, confiscation of criminal assets remains underdeveloped and rarely used, and the total amount recovered from crime in the eu is very modest. i support this directive which should set minimum standards for member states on the freezing and confiscation of assets of criminal origin (direct, value, large-scale, non-conviction-based and third-party assets), contributing to greater harmonisation in this area and promoting mutual trust and more effective transnational cooperation. further strengthening of the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders will make it possible to fight transnational organised crime more effectively in the eu.
in writing. - this proposal lays down minimum standards for member states on the freezing and confiscation of property of criminal origin and seeks to strengthen the provisions on non-conviction based confiscation and extended confiscation in order to make them more effective in order to contribute effectively to the objective of preventing the proceeds of crime from being used for future crimes or reinvested in legal activities. the adoption of those minimum rules will harmonise the freezing and confiscation of assets regimes of the member states, promoting mutual trust and more effective transnational cooperation. it will also be a step towards strengthening the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, an important aspect of the fight against serious transnational organised crime in the eu.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive lays down minimum standards for the confiscation of the instruments and proceeds of crime, so national legislation can go further. it is therefore a harmonization which introduces into the commission's proposal the possibility of confiscating proceeds of crime, not based on a conviction, on the pretext that they cannot use this proceeds in future crimes. the report extends the definition of proceeds of crime to include any direct or indirect economic benefit resulting from the criminal offence. there are doubts about some of the measures and solutions proposed, in particular confiscation not based on a conviction. in the portuguese criminal justice system there are already many solutions and measures which are somewhat close to these proposals, although, for lack of means and above all political will, they are far from being fully implemented. in this area of criminal law, because of the implications for rights, freedoms and guarantees, we must be very careful, despite the known good intentions and all the guarantees with which these proposals are usually wrapped. we insist on the need for more rapid and effective cooperation in criminal matters. but we have reservations about the solutions advocated here.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive aims to facilitate the confiscation and recovery by the member states' authorities of the proceeds of crime stemming from serious and organised transnational crime. it seeks to combat the financial incentives to crime, protect the legal economy from the infiltration of crime and corruption, and return the proceeds of crime to public authorities that provide services to citizens. organized criminal groups engage in illegal activities designed to generate profits. they are involved in a wide variety of transnational criminal activities - drug or human trafficking, arms trafficking and corruption - that can generate huge profits. this directive lays down instruments to combat international crime, in particular as regards the confiscation of property proven to have been the product of criminal activity. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union was adopted by the commission on 12 march 2012. this directive lays down minimum standards for member states on the freezing and confiscation of property derived from crime, by means of direct seizure, confiscation of assets, widespread seizure, confiscation not based on a conviction and confiscation of property of third parties. the adoption of those minimum rules will harmonise the freezing and confiscation of assets regimes of the member states, promoting mutual trust and more effective transnational cooperation. it will also be a step towards strengthening the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, an important aspect of the fight against serious transnational organised crime in the eu. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the directive lays down minimum standards for member states on the freezing and confiscation of property derived from crime, by means of direct seizure, seizure of assets, extended seizure, seizure not based on a conviction and seizure of third party property. the report we have voted on is generally in favour of the commission's proposal. the adoption of minimum rules will harmonise member states' freezing and confiscation regimes, while promoting mutual trust and more effective transnational cooperation. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the directive lays down minimum standards for the confiscation of the instruments and proceeds of crime. the commission proposal therefore introduces the possibility of confiscating proceeds of crime not based on a conviction, on the pretext that they cannot use this proceeds in future crimes. the report extends the definition of proceeds of crime to include any direct or indirect economic benefit resulting from the criminal offence. there are doubts about some of the measures and solutions proposed, in particular confiscation not based on a conviction. in the portuguese criminal justice system there are already many solutions and measures which are somewhat close to these proposals, but as we know, in our country, for lack of means and above all political will, they are far from being implemented. we continue to advocate faster and more effective cooperation in criminal matters, which does not necessarily have to include harmonisation.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the directive harmonizing certain aspects of trade mark law in the member states of the european union has been in existence for more than 20 years. the current review is an opportunity to learn from best practice and to further strengthen the harmonisation aspects of substantive trade mark law and procedures used by national industrial property offices. at the same time, i want to make it clear from the outset that the central guiding principle of this review is to preserve and strengthen the two-tier system of trade mark protection in europe. the business fabric in the european union comprises more than 20 million businesses with very different needs, and the trade mark system must be sufficiently simple and flexible to enable its users to enjoy protection appropriate to their needs.
in writing. - the trade mark laws of the member states were partially harmonised by directive 89/104/eec of 21 december 1998, codified by directive 2008/95/ec. in an increasingly competitive environment, there is a steady growth not only in the essential role of brands for success in the market, but also in their commercial value. this is reflected in the increasing number of trademark applications, both at national and eu level. the purpose of the recast of this directive is to modernise and improve the existing provisions, amending those which have become outdated, increasing legal certainty and clarifying the rights conferred by trade marks in terms of scope and limitations; to bring national trade mark laws and procedures closer together with a view to bringing them more closely into line with the community trade mark system; to facilitate cooperation between the institutes of the member states and the office for harmonization in the internal market in order to promote convergence of practices and the development of common instruments, by establishing a legal basis for such cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in the light of the report by the committee on legal affairs and the opinions of the committee on international trade and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the community's economy. the trade mark system, which can contribute to the competitiveness and innovation of european enterprises, the vast majority of which are small and medium-sized enterprises, should therefore be simple and flexible in order to provide its users with protection appropriate to their needs and markets. in the 20 years since the directive was adopted, which harmonises certain aspects of trade marks in the eu member states, much has changed in the structure of international and intra-european trade. the reform of this directive is therefore timely and of increased importance in the current context of economic crisis. i am voting in favour of this proposal for a revision of the directive on the harmonization of trade mark law, because i believe that it will make an important contribution to boosting the competitiveness of european companies. i would stress the need to harmonise and simplify the procedures for applying for trade mark protection at european level so that companies opting for registration in different member states are not faced with disparate procedures. however, the attractiveness of national trademark systems for small and medium-sized enterprises, which often operate at national or regional level, should be preserved.
in writing. - the proposal for the revision of the trade mark system in europe was presented by the commission at the end of march 2013, after several years of work. i welcome a proposal to support users who rely on the protection of the services of various national institutes. it is sensible to harmonise procedures so that users are not obliged to deal with completely different procedural methods in the various member states where they wish to obtain protection.
in writing. - the brand is used to distinguish the products and services of a company. it is through it that companies can attract and retain customer loyalty and add value and grow. the brand acts as an engine of innovation: the need to keep it relevant promotes investment in r&d, which in turn leads to a continuous process of product improvement and development. this dynamic process also has positive effects on employment. the aim of this directive is to promote innovation and economic growth by making eu-wide trade mark registration systems more accessible and efficient for businesses by reducing costs and complexity, and by increasing speed, predictability and legal certainty. those adjustments coincide with efforts to ensure the coexistence and complementarity between the union and member states' trade mark systems. the current review is an opportunity to learn from best practice and to further strengthen the harmonisation aspects of substantive trade mark law and procedures used by national industrial property offices. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the directive harmonising certain aspects of trade mark law in the member states of the european union has been in existence for more than 20 years. the current review is an opportunity to learn from best practice and to further strengthen the harmonisation aspects of substantive trade mark law and procedures used by national industrial property offices. the implementation of best practices for substantive and procedural law should focus on making national trade mark systems more attractive to users. in agreeing with these objectives and the proposed amendments to modernise, i voted in favour of this procedure.
in march 2013, the european commission put forward a proposal that aims to make eu-wide trademark registration systems more accessible and efficient for businesses by reducing costs and complexity, and by increasing speed, predictability and legal certainty. i am in favour of this regulation, which aims to increase the legal certainty of registered trade marks, to bring about greater approximation of national trade mark laws and procedures and to facilitate cooperation between the various intellectual property institutes in the member states.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european police office (europol) was first established by a convention on 26 july 1995, the only instrument available at the time of its creation under the maastricht treaty, which required ratification by all member states to enter into force. this mechanism meant that any amendment to the europol convention could only be made by means of a protocol, an instrument which had to be submitted to national parliaments for subsequent ratification. the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam has made it possible to respond to europol's need for a more effective regulatory legal instrument, which would enable it to have a better capacity to react to the increasingly globalised crime. the european police office is thus reorganised as a european agency and given a community budget and staff. to this end, on 6 april 2009 the council adopted the decision establishing the european police office, repealing the previous europol convention.
in the light of the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the opinions of the committee on budgets, the committee on budgetary control and the committee on constitutional affairs, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in recent years, serious and organised crime has increased in the european union, an increasingly dynamic and complex phenomenon that threatens the security and prosperity of the union and of europeans. crime in the broad sense is now a concern for european citizens and businesses who feel that their decisions are affected by phenomena with increasing impact, such as cybercrime. organized crime networks are increasingly diverse and global. terrorists operate and cooperate on a cross-border scale causing ever-increasing damage. i believe that there is an urgent need to make the european police office more effective and efficient in cooperation and exchange of information, and i therefore vote in favour of this report. i would remind you that, under the provisions of the lisbon treaty, europol's activities are subject to the control of the representatives democratically elected by the european citizens, and i stress the importance of strengthening the effectiveness of the mechanism for monitoring its activities by the european parliament and national parliaments. i would also stress the crucial importance for the union of having a more effective europol, with greater responsibility and streamlined procedures, capable of ensuring that our fundamental rights are respected and safeguarded.
in writing. - the commission proposal extends the scope of europol's powers. in addition to terrorism, organised crime and other forms of serious crossborder crime, it now aims to cover crimes affecting common interests covered by eu policies. in other words, the door is opened to a substantial widening of the scope of europol's activities. the commission wants to see a clear obligation for member states to provide data and to increase their cooperation with europol so that it can fulfil its objectives, also giving it more powers of initiative. in the commission proposal, europol may propose to the member states to set up joint investigations and to receive personal data from private individuals, which raises serious data protection issues. the proposal includes information sharing with the european parliament and a merger between the eu bodies cepol and europol. we see serious risks in the proposals put forward in this report. we voted against it.
in writing. - europol's mission is to support national police services and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime and terrorism. europol facilitates the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states and provides criminal analysis to assist national police forces in their transnational investigations. the lisbon treaty ensures that europol's activities are subject to the control of representatives democratically elected by eu citizens. the mechanism for scrutiny of europol's activities by the european parliament, together with national parliaments, should be carried out through a parliamentary scrutiny cell, with a small specialised structure, formed by the competent committee of the european parliament (libe), together with a representative of the committee on home affairs or similar from each of the national parliaments of the member states. in order to ensure effective control of this agency, i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the european police office (europol) was first established by a convention on 26 july 1995, the only instrument available at the time of its creation under the maastricht treaty, which required ratification by all member states to enter into force. this mechanism meant that any amendment to the europol convention could only be made by means of a protocol, an instrument which had to be submitted to national parliaments for subsequent ratification. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009 implied the recognition of the co-decision power of the european parliament. article 88 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the european parliament and the council, acting by means of a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, are to determine europol's structure, functioning, field of action and tasks. the draft proposal clearly defines europol's field of action, its tasks and the way in which cooperation with the member states is to be carried out. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the present proposal aims to bring decisions concerning europol into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty by defining its legislative framework in a regulation and by creating a mechanism for the european parliament, in collaboration with the national parliaments, to monitor its activities, in order to strengthen europol's democratic legitimacy and its accountability to european citizens. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the commission proposal extends the scope of europol's powers. in addition to terrorism, organised crime and other forms of serious crossborder crime, it now aims to include crimes affecting common interests covered by eu policies. the commission wants to see a clear obligation for member states to provide europol with data and to increase their cooperation with europol to enable it to achieve its objectives, also giving it more powers of initiative. in the commission proposal, europol could propose to the member states the creation of joint investigations as well as the sharing of personal data of private individuals, which would mean outside the national unit of any member state. the ppe wants europol to be able to process personal data from private bodies and to receive this data directly from private bodies, and has tabled amendment no 233. the proposal includes information sharing with the european parliament and a merger between the eu bodies cepol and europol. we voted against the objectives which we consider to be pursued by europol and which limit individual freedoms and guarantees.
in writing. - i support the present report and the commission's proposal, since it aims to improve the provisions applicable to these groups of third country nationals and to make the european union more attractive. the european union must be competitive on the global market and at the same time provide guarantees and equal treatment. i welcome the inclusion of the new categories, with provisions that were optional in the current directives now becoming mandatory, as well as easier access for higher education students to the labour market, improved safeguards, the time limits for the authorisation procedure and the possibility of staying on for the purpose of applying for a job or setting up a business after completion of research or studies. the crisis-ridden european union is not as attractive a market as it once was, there are other parts of the world that are more successful at attracting skilled labour. on the other hand, complex bureaucracy and scepticism about immigrants also contribute to pushing skilled labour away from the european union.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because this directive aims to promote the union as a magnet for research and innovation and to move it forward in the global race to attract talent, and in doing so leads to an increase in the union's overall competitiveness and growth rates, while creating jobs that contribute more to gdp growth. the opening of the union to third-country nationals who may be admitted for research purposes is also part of the flagship initiative 'innovation union'. the creation of a labour market open to researchers from the union and from third countries was also mentioned as an essential objective of the european research area, as a unified area characterised by the free movement within it of researchers, scientific knowledge and technologies.
in writing. - in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and the need to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, human capital is one of europe's key assets. this proposal thus aims to create a common instrument at eu level that contributes to increasing the attractiveness of the union as a destination for skilled migrants and to encouraging the mobility of such persons within the eu. given that the current legislation in force suffers from a number of shortcomings and does not contain sufficiently clear rules, nor are they binding or fully consistent with current eu funding programmes, this new instrument should thus contribute to improving the provisions applicable to third-country nationals who are researchers, students in higher education, secondary education, unpaid trainees and volunteers, as well as applying common provisions to two new categories: paid trainees and au pairs. i therefore support this directive which should help to promote the transfer of skills and competences and encourage competitiveness, and at the same time establish safeguards to ensure the fair treatment of these categories of third-country nationals. it will also make it possible to replace some national rules on applications for admission and residence with common rules in order to simplify procedures for potential applicants and the bodies involved.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to recast and merge directive 2005/71/ec of 12 october 2005 on a specific procedure for the admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research and directive 2004/114/ec of 13 december 2004 on the conditions of admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, higher education student exchanges, unremunerated training or voluntary service. the new proposal also adds two new categories: paid trainees and au pairs, which will help to prevent exploitation and undeclared work. it is essential to eliminate complicated bureaucracy in order to promote good immigration management which could be the answer to the problems related to the ageing of the population and the lack of skilled labour in many sectors.
in writing. - europe spends 0.8% less of its gdp than the united states and 1.5% less than japan on research and development (r & d) annually. many of the best researchers have moved to countries where conditions are more favorable. the proposal aims to introduce more attractive conditions for foreign students and researchers, as well as trainees, volunteers and au pairs, who wish to come to the eu. we should therefore set shorter deadlines for national authorities to decide on applications for admission and allow foreign researchers and students to remain in the eu for 18 months after the completion of their research or studies in order to seek employment or set up a business. many eu member states still have difficulty finding qualified labour to fill certain vacancies. there are signs that this problem will persist for the next decade, for both economic and demographic reasons.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive covers the admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research, studies, student exchanges, unpaid training and voluntary work. the proposal provides that a long-term visa or residence permit should be granted to applicants who fulfil all the conditions for admission. it also sets a maximum period of 30 days (better than the european commission's proposal of 60 days) for authorisation, facilitates mobility within the eu, in particular for erasmus mundus and marie curie, allows a minimum of 20 hours per week of part-time work for students, among other aspects. the eu is trying to counter the brain drain from its own territory (which is inseparable from the deterioration of the conditions for the provision of scientific work and the increase in barriers to access to knowledge and training) by attracting brains from other places, that is, by promoting another brain drain, but in a different sense and yet with equally harmful consequences. these are the reservations we have about this process, along with the obvious dissonance with the eu's general immigration policy: repressive and criminalising. as for the rest, there is nothing against the entry and residence of citizens of other countries, whether they are researchers and/or students or not.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to improve the provisions applicable to third-country nationals who are researchers, higher education students, secondary school students, unpaid trainees and volunteers, and to apply common provisions to two new categories of third-country nationals, namely paid trainees and au pairs. its general objective is to support social, cultural and economic relations between the eu and third countries, to promote the transfer of skills and abilities and to encourage competitiveness, while at the same time providing guarantees to ensure the equal treatment of these categories of third-country nationals. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this directive is a recast and merger of the directive on a specific procedure for the admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research and the directive on the conditions of admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, higher education student exchanges, unremunerated training or voluntary service. the new proposal also adds two new categories: paid trainees and au pairs. to date, these two categories have not been included in a framework governing their situation. their inclusion in this directive will help to prevent undeclared work and exploitation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i know . the general aim of this proposal for a directive is to make the union an attractive and converging area for researchers, students, unpaid trainees, volunteers, trainees and au pairs. this is a merger of directive 2005/71/ec and directive 2004/114/ec. one element i would like to stress is the authorization to remain after the completion of research and studies, which allows the investment made to have added value for the economy within the union. on the other hand, i welcome the application of the rules extending to the family of researchers and i advocate that the same should be extended to students. finally, it stressed the introduction of accelerated procedures for issuing residence permits or visas in these cases. a europe that is committed to academic and vocational qualifications, where opportunities and equal treatment are the rule.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive is a recast and a combination of the directives on a specific procedure for admitting third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research and the directive on the same conditions for studies, student exchanges, unpaid training or voluntary work. thousands of the best researchers and innovators have emigrated to countries where conditions are more favourable, and students from third countries come to europe to acquire skills and training. the directive thus allows third-country nationals to undertake a period of training in europe by encouraging the circulation of brains and supporting cooperation with third countries. the directive regulates visas for students from third countries to come to study and carry out research and, in the end, encourages them to stay for an additional 18 months, or even to set up a business. it is doubtful whether the concept of cooperation with third countries in this area, which will in practice absorb the few qualified human resources that many of these countries have, will be the best for their future development. we voted in favour because we believe that everyone has the right to equal opportunities.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that, although the commission's proposal represents a good starting point for the creation of cevah, i would like to see improvements by bringing it more closely into line with the new financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union, in particular as regards the commission's powers to create and manage an eu trust fund in the field of humanitarian aid. although not integrated in the budget, these trust funds should be managed in accordance with the financial regulation to the extent necessary for the security and transparency of the use of union funds. to that end, the commission should chair the board of directors set up for each trust fund in order to ensure the representation of the donors and to participate in the decision on the use of the funds.
in writing. - in september 2012, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (eu volunteers), whose objective is to express the union's humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need. the explicit exclusion of armed conflict and internal disturbance contexts, ensuring the safety and protection of volunteers, the development of qualitative indicators on effectiveness, response to identified needs on the ground and the added value provided by volunteers, and the development of a simple system of certification mechanism seeking synergies, in particular with the partnership instruments and existing humanitarian standards, are advocated. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation which aims to create the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (evac) - eu volunteers - one of whose primary objectives is to encourage young europeans to contribute actively and participatory to the european union's humanitarian aid operations. i would remind you that although the eu and its member states together account for more than half of the total world humanitarian aid, the visibility of the union's action in responding to humanitarian crises is timidly recognised and often mitigated by the action of other international organisations. the possibility introduced by the treaty of lisbon, article 214 (5), of creating an eu volunteer corps, inspired by the model of the united nations volunteer corps, in which many of our young europeans participate every year, will allow, on the one hand, the awareness and development of the idea of european citizenship and, on the other hand, the affirmation of the eu's humanitarian values and its solidarity with the most deprived or vulnerable people in third countries. let us not forget that solidarity, which is one of the union's fundamental values, finds a concrete and visible expression in volunteering!
in writing. - in the global space we live in, the distance between north and south, west and east is getting shorter and shorter. the distance between those who are most in need and those who are willing to help, to give a part of their life, their time and their space, is also short. volunteering shortens all these spaces, so it needs to be recognised for its work and the people who do it need to be protected. i am therefore in favour of this report.
in writing. - the regulation voted today aims to establish a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps to support and complement humanitarian aid in third countries. the aim is to create a database of eu aid volunteers, who will be pre-selected and trained and who, in partnership with national and international humanitarian organisations, will be deployed for humanitarian aid in crisis situations. volunteering is an expression of support and active participation in society and promotes the values of solidarity and mutual aid, contributing to social integration and the dissipation of feelings of discrimination. however, we are moving away from a certain instrumental view of volunteering, which seeks to express values and sentiments that are far from being present in the general action of the european union and in particular in its sectoral policies, some of which have particularly harmful effects in developing countries. the final version of this report has been improved both in relation to its initial version and to the commission proposal.
in writing. - the objective of this proposal is to express the union's humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need by promoting an effective and visible european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which contributes to strengthening the eu's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises and to building the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-affected communities in third countries. the union must ensure adequate humanitarian aid in the face of the increasing number and scale of humanitarian crises, caused by both natural and man-made disasters. the commission shall be assisted by a team of experts from the member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - on 19 september 2012, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (eu volunteers) as provided for in article 214 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the objective of this appropriation is to contribute to the development of the union's humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need through the promotion of an effective and visible european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which contributes to strengthening the union's response capacity to humanitarian crises and to building the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-affected communities in third countries. i voted in favour of the creation of this body which will fill the gaps in current humanitarian volunteering and contribute to raising public awareness and the idea of european citizenship.
in writing. - as provided for in article 214 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps - eu volunteers. the objective of this appropriation is to contribute to the development of the union's humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need through the promotion of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which contributes to strengthening the union's response capacity to humanitarian crises and to building the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-affected communities in third countries. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the objective of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. however, the economic and financial crisis is aggravating poverty and social exclusion across the union. in 2011, almost 120 million europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, an increase of 6 million in two years, or nearly a quarter of the total population. more than 40 million are victims of severe material deprivation. children are particularly sensitive in this context, for example to food poverty, leading to poor diets, with negative consequences for brain development, learning capacity, as well as future health. the union's main instrument for supporting employability, combating poverty and promoting social inclusion is the european social fund. however, the justification for activating the esf for employment reveals that people with the most basic needs are often further away from the labour market or too excluded to benefit from its intervention, and therefore special attention is needed in these cases.
in writing. - the fund for european aid to the most deprived for the period 2014-2020 will allow member states to request financial support for operational programmes aimed at distributing, through partner organisations, food to the most deprived persons and clothing and other essential goods to the homeless and children in need. the fund for european aid to the most deprived replaces the food distribution programme in the european union. since 1987, this programme has been an important source of supply for organisations working in direct contact with the most deprived people, providing them with food support. portugal is to receive eur 157 million for the period 2014-2020. the european co-financing rate will be 85%. in the case of the countries most affected by the crisis, such as portugal, the european union's co-financing could be as high as 95%. the fund for european aid to the most deprived will make it possible to support more than 2 million disadvantaged people a year in the european union. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper and effective manner. member states should promote, where necessary, cooperation between local and regional authorities and representative bodies of civil society by encouraging the participation of all those involved in the design and implementation of activities funded by the fund.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative of introducing a new system of aid for the most deprived people. twenty-five years later, the scope of this fund needed to be improved, with mechanisms to respond effectively to the challenges of poverty and social exclusion in the eu today. the fund aims to support national organisations in distributing clothing, food and other essential goods to the most deprived people and will have a total budget of eur 3.5 billion by 2020, of which eur 157 million will be allocated to portugal. in view of the levels of poverty and social exclusion in the union, i would stress, however, that this fund cannot and should not be seen as a substitute for the overall policies needed to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty, and therefore as a concrete expression of the union's fundamental principles and values. i would remind you that the union's treaties enshrine solidarity and respect for human dignity as fundamental values and make the promotion of the well-being of its peoples one of its objectives. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - since 1987, the fund for european aid to the most deprived has been providing food aid and basic assistance to the most vulnerable sections of the population. the fund will now have eur 3.5 billion, which will be distributed among the member states according to the needs of their populations. the fund will support the most deprived population in general, not just the homeless, the elderly and children, and will support organisations that combat food waste and provide food support to the most deprived. i would therefore like to congratulate the measures adopted today for this fund and to recall the importance of the strategy adopted by the union to reduce by 2020 the number of people in need by some 20 million. the fight against hunger, social exclusion and extreme poverty must always be a priority for the european union.
in writing. - through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the objective of reducing by 2020 the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million. the european fund for aid to the most deprived will be extended until 2020 with a budget of €3.5 billion and aims to support national organisations in distributing food, clothing and other essential goods to people in need. the fund for european aid to the most deprived may also support activities related to the collection, transport, storage and distribution of donated food, with the aim of increasing and diversifying the supply of food to the most deprived persons and reducing and preventing food waste. i would stress that in the case of countries such as portugal, the eu co-financing can be as high as 95%.
in writing. - i know . we are voting today on the outcome of the negotiations with the council on the creation of this fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead). the eafrd is important, but insufficient in view of the real needs of the people. the so-called austerity policies imposed by the imf, the european union and national governments have led to the increase of social inequalities, unemployment, poverty and the population at risk of poverty. however, we cannot but welcome the increase in the budget to eur 3500 billion for the period 2014-2020, corresponding to eur 500 million per year like the defunct european food aid programme for the most deprived. we also welcome the increase in the co-financing rate to 95% for countries with the greatest financial difficulties and the possibility for member states to choose to distribute food and/or other forms of material assistance to those most in need, or to address them by other means, such as social inclusion activities. we voted yes.
in writing. - through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the objective of reducing by 2020 the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million. the main instrument of the union to support employability, combat poverty and promote social inclusion is and will continue to be the european social fund (esf). this structural instrument invests directly in people and their skills and aims to improve their prospects on the labour market. however, some of the most vulnerable eu citizens living in extreme poverty are too far from the labour market to benefit from esf social inclusion measures. this regulation therefore establishes, for the period 2014-2020, a new instrument which will complement the existing cohesion mechanisms, and in particular the european social fund, by addressing the most severe and socially corrosive forms of poverty and the problem of food deprivation, as well as the situation of the homeless and the material deprivation of children, while supporting accompanying measures aimed at the social reintegration of the most deprived persons in the union. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the objective of reducing by 2020 the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million. the legal basis for this proposal is article 175 (3) tfeu. it provides for specific actions outside the structural funds to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion (article 174 tfeu). the proposed eur 2,5 billion fund for the period 2014-2020 will establish a new and broader instrument, mainly based on the experience of the food distribution programme by supporting national schemes to address food deprivation, while devoting part of its resources to material assistance in the form of non-food products for homeless people and/or children and accompanying measures aimed at the social reintegration of assisted persons. i would stress that the support provided by the proposed fund should not be seen as a substitute for the overall policies needed to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty, which remains a challenge for the union and the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in 2010, nearly a quarter of europeans (116 million) were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, an increase of two million people compared to the previous year. following the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy, the european union set itself the objective of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. i am voting in favour of this commission proposal for a multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 which provides for the allocation of eur 2.5 billion under cohesion policy. i think it is essential that the fund should cover food deprivation, the situation of the homeless and the material deprivation affecting children. each member state should choose to focus action on one or more of these forms of deprivation and also support accompanying measures, in addition to the material support provided, with a view to the social reintegration of the most deprived persons.
in writing. - i approve this report, whereas on 22 may 2012 the parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. the biocidal products regulation represented a significant and important revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products, harmonising the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. since its adoption, the commission has identified some technical errors and unintended consequences in the regulation, in particular with regard to the transitional provisions laid down in articles 94 and 95. it is therefore natural for the commission to adopt this proposed amendment with a view to making the necessary corrections and clarifications, as the regulation applies from 1 september 2013. therefore, in order to provide the member states, industry and the general public with the necessary legal clarity and certainty, i support the commission's proposal.
in writing. - the high standards of hygiene to which our civilization has become accustomed require an increasingly constant and intensive use of biocidal products. at the same time, these products are required to be increasingly effective and aggressive, which means that their handling becomes more dangerous. therefore, the approach to regulating the placing on the market and use of biocidal products must pay particular attention to the protection of consumers/users. once again, as i have said on other occasions, the rules on this matter must be uniform and valid throughout the eu, otherwise we will not be effectively ensuring the protection of all european consumers and, not least, environmental protection.
in writing. - the report by mr matthias groote on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, as regards certain conditions for market access. this report, adopted in 2012, represented a significant and important revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products. it has harmonised the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. however, some technical errors and unintended consequences in the regulation were identified, in particular with regard to the transitional provisions laid down in articles 94 and 95. i therefore agree with this report in that it proposes a limited number of technical clarifications to give the member states, industry and the public in general the necessary legal clarity and certainty. the rapporteur therefore supports the commission's proposal.
- biocides are used for the prevention and protection against pests and other organisms which may threaten human health. however, their uncontrolled use can also be harmful to health and the environment. in 2012, the parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 528/2012 on the making available and use of biocidal products, where some technical errors were detected from the outset, and some unintended consequences, in particular with regard to the transitional provisions provided for in articles 94 and 95. in addition, some technical clarifications were identified which should be introduced in the text. the report therefore proposes an amendment which corrects the errors found and adds clarifications, in particular on definitions such as technological adjuvants and on the labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. the report also makes a number of corrections concerning cross-references. the regulation has positive aspects, highlighting a concern to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, as well as labelling issues with non-misleading consumer information, such as in the case of the possible use of nanomaterials and in technological adjuvants. this report clarifies and corrects the shortcomings that have been found, which is why we voted in favour.
- the biocidal products regulation has represented a significant and important revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products, with the harmonisation of the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the parliament and the council adopted on 22 may 2012 the regulation concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. the biocidal products regulation represented a significant and important revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products, harmonising the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. since its adoption, the commission has identified some technical errors and unintended consequences in the regulation, in particular as regards the transitional provisions. in order to provide the member states, industry and the public at large with the necessary legal clarity and certainty, i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to improve this regulation.
- the main objective of this report, which is essentially technical, is to amend the existing regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. although it was adopted only last year, after some analysis it is already possible to identify some technical errors which this document seeks to correct. the amendments include clarifying the definition of technological adjuvants, checking consistency with legislation on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and improving the wording of the document itself. for these reasons i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that 24% of women in the eu have experienced some form of violence, 20-25% of women have been victims of physical violence at least once in their adult lives and more than 10% have experienced sexual violence involving force. it is estimated that 12 to 15% of women in europe are victims of domestic, physical and/or psychological violence and that every day seven women in the european union are the deadliest victims of such acts. budget cuts in resources and prevention of gender-based violence have been driven by the current economic crisis. however, the costs of preventive measures are substantially lower than the cost of the consequences of violence, and these acts constitute a social scourge and a violation of human rights. according to studies, the economic cost of violence against women in 2011 in the eu was estimated at €228 billion per year, of which €45 billion was spent on services. about 24 billion euros in economic losses and 159 billion euros in pain and suffering.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. in europe, 18 women are killed every day, 12 of them by their intimate partners or other family members. more than one in ten have experienced sexual violence and 26% of children and young people report cases of physical violence in childhood. i agree with the need for the european commission to present a strategy with measures to support member states' action in the field of preventing violence against women and girls, as well as a european legislative act on this matter. i support the implementation of the bridge clause by adopting a unanimous decision identifying violence against women and girls, and other forms of gender-based violence, as one of the areas of crime listed in article 83 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that in some countries the statistics show that, although the number of murders is not increasing, the proportion of women murdered is increasingly higher than that of men, confirming the increase in violence against women.
in writing. - i condemn all violence, but especially that which is directed against those who are most vulnerable - socially, economically or emotionally - such as children and, often, women. states should therefore seek to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls, including trafficking for sexual exploitation, violations of their sexual self-determination and domestic violence. respect for human life and dignity is incompatible with the crimes of which many women and children in europe are victims, which is why strong policies to prevent violence and punish offenders are warranted.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. it is the root cause of gender inequality, as it is an obstacle to women's full participation in economic, social, political and cultural life. women who suffer violence face long-term psychological and physical trauma. in addition, this form of violence implies considerable economic burdens, including health care costs, legal and police costs, lost productivity and wages. there is no legislation in the eu today to set out measures to promote and support action by member states in the prevention of violence against women, nor is there a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. the eu must therefore become the leading international actor in preventing gender-based violence and serve as a successful example for those around the world who are fighting for the eradication of violence against women and against gender-based discrimination at legislative, cultural and political levels. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - there is no legislative act establishing measures to promote and support member states' action in the field of preventing violence against women, nor a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to present, by the end of 2014, and on the basis of article 84 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for a legislative act laying down measures to promote and support action by member states in the field of preventing violence against women and girls, in accordance with the detailed recommendations set out in the annex.
in writing. - any form of violence against women must be expressly condemned by the union. despite the efforts made by the union institutions to raise awareness of this problem, statistics show that much remains to be done. in the union, 45% of women have experienced some form of violence, 20% to 25% have been victims of physical violence at least once as adults and more than 10% have experienced sexual violence involving force. the consequences of these traumas are permanent and affect the lives of women in european societies. i therefore support the commission's promotion of actions and measures in the field of the prevention of violence against women and girls. i also support the creation of a european observatory on violence against women and girls within the european agency for fundamental rights. a europe where gender discrimination and violence must be criminalised in all its forms.
in writing. - the report calls on the european commission to present, by the end of 2014, on the basis of article 84 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a legislative proposal setting out measures to encourage and support member states' action in the field of preventing violence against women and girls (vawg), and to activate the 'passerelle clause' by means of a unanimous decision identifying violence against women and girls (and other forms of gender-based violence) as a crime, listed in article 83 (1). it urged the commission to take the first steps towards the creation of a european observatory on violence against women and girls, to organise a european year against vawg. the annex describes the content requested in the legislative act, including prevention measures, calling on member states to take the necessary measures to set up national rapporteurs or equivalent mechanisms, the creation of a civil society forum on vawg, and to ensure support for women's ngos and civil society working in the area of violence against women and girls. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the ultimate objective of this report is to consolidate the work that has been done, both at administrative and political level, in the institutions of the european union. there has been a particular focus on co-legislators and the commission on delegated and implementing acts issues over the past four years. this initiative paves the way for such issues to become part of a forthcoming revision of the 2003 better law-making interinstitutional agreement. the drafting of delegated and implementing acts, as well as the correct and most appropriate choice of provisions to be included in the basic act, are issues that have become an integral part of most negotiations on legislative proposals. i am therefore also in favour of the amendments tabled to preserve parliament's prerogatives and to guide members and working parties, taking into account the different positions taken by parliament, the horizontal approach advocated by the conference of presidents and the regular screening exercises carried out by parliament's services.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the lisbon treaty has introduced the possibility for parliament and the council (together referred to as the legislator) to delegate part of their powers to the commission by means of a legislative act (the basic act); that delegation is a delicate operation whereby the commission is entrusted with the exercise of a power which is intrinsic to the role of the legislator itself; that it is therefore responsible for ensuring the correct application of the treaty, in order also to ensure a sufficient level of democratic legitimacy for delegated acts; that the starting point for examining the question of delegation must therefore always be the freedom of the legislator; that according to established case law, the adoption of the essential elements of a legislative act is reserved to the legislator, which is why the adoption of provisions requiring political decisions from the legislator's sphere of competence cannot be delegated; that such delegated power can therefore only supplement or amend non-essential elements of the legislative act; that delegated acts thus adopted by the commission shall be non-legislative acts of general scope.
- the high expectations set out in the reports on the delegation of legislative powers and in the regulation on implementing acts in 2010 have not been fulfilled as initially envisaged. the drafting of delegated and implementing acts, as well as the correct and most appropriate choice of provisions to be included in the basic act, are issues that have become an integral part of most negotiations on legislative proposals. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - as shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i have commented on this report in due course. since 2010, the commission has had the opportunity to use the delegation of power provided for in article 290 tfeu in several of its proposals for regulations and directives. in this way, a number of delegated acts have already been adopted. it is time to analyse the use of this procedure and draw conclusions on how the monitoring system has worked in order to prevent or correct any excesses or abuses which may obstruct the democratic rules of the community of law which is the european union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the ultimate objective of this report is to consolidate the work that has been done, both at administrative and political level, in the eu institutions, with particular attention to the co-legislators and the commission, on delegated and implementing act issues over the past four years, and to pave the way for these issues to become part of a forthcoming revision of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. i have no objection to this report, and i am satisfied that it has achieved its objectives.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty introduced the possibility for the parliament and the council to delegate some of their powers to the european commission by means of a legislative act, a delicate operation whereby the commission is entrusted with the exercise of a power which is intrinsic to the role of the legislator itself. i support this proposal which calls on the european institutions to define the specific criteria for the use and application of the legislative act concerned and on parliamentary committees to closely monitor the use of delegated and implementing acts within their respective spheres of competence.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by regretting the repeated absence of new proposals from the commission on the role that the budget of the european union can play in stimulating growth and job creation in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i recall that the new financial framework is being launched in 2014 and stress the need for swift and effective implementation of the new programmes to enable them to contribute to the economic recovery process. i call for the particularly rapid implementation of programmes such as horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+. i would stress that these programmes provide a higher volume of financial resources at the beginning of the programming period and have a leverage effect by playing a synergistic and catalytic role in relation to national investment policies. i would also stress the need to pay particular attention to the need for a higher volume of funding at the beginning of the programming period in order to ensure growth and job creation, in particular with a view to combating youth unemployment.
in writing. - the annual growth survey (ags) is the instrument which marks the beginning of each european semester. it is an essential instrument for the coordination of economic policies and the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances, as well as for the budgetary surveillance of the member states. in view of the latest developments in the euro area economy, which are mainly focused on a slow recovery in growth and the expectation of a tentative recovery, the main points of this beginning of the european semester focus mainly on the need to complete structural reforms and debt reduction. the main priority of the 2014 caa is to enhance sustainable, smart and inclusive growth and competitiveness, leading to more job creation. parliament therefore stressed the need to encourage financing of the economy, to promote the combination of solidarity and conditionality for the successful adjustment of countries, the establishment of competitive tax systems and progress in the single market, particularly in the functioning of the labour market. parliament welcomed the progress made towards building a more complete economic and monetary union in the context of the european semester process and called for greater harmonization and convergence of these policies. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the eu economy as a whole needs to increase its competitiveness on the basis of costs and other factors in the world economy, in particular by increasing competition in the product and service markets in order to develop productivity, promote the efficient use of resources and lower prices, and by aligning labour costs with productivity and reducing internal macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. - the annual growth survey (ags) is the instrument which marks the beginning of each european semester. it is an essential instrument for the coordination of economic policies and the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances, as well as for the budgetary surveillance of the member states. in view of the latest developments in the euro area economy, which are mainly focused on a slow recovery in growth and the expectation of a tentative possibility of recovery, the main points of this beginning of the european semester focus mainly on the need to complete structural reforms and debt reduction. the main priority of the 2014 caa is to enhance sustainable, smart and inclusive growth and competitiveness, leading to more job creation. parliament therefore stressed the need to encourage financing of the economy, to promote the combination of solidarity and conditionality for the successful adjustment of countries, the establishment of competitive tax systems and progress in the single market, particularly in the functioning of the labour market. parliament welcomed the progress made towards building a more complete economic and monetary union in the context of the european semester process and called for greater harmonization and convergence of these policies.
in writing. - the economic recovery in the eu is on its way, but it is still fragile. growth-friendly fiscal consolidation is needed and efforts must be sustained to ensure compliance with the current economic governance framework on the one hand and to achieve sustainable growth and job creation in the medium to long term on the other. only investment capacity will be able to provide incentives for economic growth. only the budget surpluses and budgetary balances of the member states will allow the funds needed for the investments that will lead to sustained growth in the euro area to be released.
in writing. - the annual growth survey (ags) is the instrument which marks the start of each european semester and is essential for the coordination of economic policies and the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances, as well as for the budgetary surveillance of the member states. in view of the latest developments in the euro area economy, which are mainly characterised by a slow recovery in growth and the expectation of a modest recovery, the main points of this beginning of the european semester focus mainly on the achievement of structural reforms and debt reduction. the main priority of the 2014 caa is to strengthen competitiveness and sustainable, smart and inclusive growth that leads to job creation. parliament stressed the need to encourage financing of the economy, to promote the combination of solidarity and conditionality for the success of the adjustment of countries, to establish competitive tax systems and to make progress in the single market, particularly in the functioning of the labour market. i believe that this package of measures contributes to the building of a more complete economic and monetary union in the context of the european semester process and to greater harmonization and convergence of these policies, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the latest autumn forecasts from the european commission show that real gdp in the euro area is slowly recovering and is expected to reach 1.1% in 2014, with a further decline in unemployment and inflation below 2%. i believe that the european union is making a solid recovery in its economic activity and job creation and must continue to implement structural reforms to increase its competitiveness and improve the quality of life of families.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by pointing out that although structural reforms can bear fruit in the medium to long term, the need to stimulate internal demand in the european union requires the commission and the council to increase investment. this initiative aims to sustain growth and quality employment in the short term and to strengthen potential in the medium term. i note that the main objectives have already been set out in the europe 2020 strategy and the pact for growth and jobs, concluded in june 2012, but that funding needs to be stepped up. i therefore invite the member states to put in place an investment package which will bring about a significant improvement in the short-term economic situation and the situation in the labour markets of the member states. i urge the commission to put in place a plan to help the member states concerned make the necessary productive investments, for example in education and r & d, given the potential of these sectors to generate growth and jobs.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the recession in the euro area has ended, in numerical terms, in the second quarter of 2013.
in writing. - the recession in the euro area came to a head in numerical terms in the second quarter of 2013, but annual growth in the euro area remains fragile this year, and unemployment remains at a very high level. sustainable growth needs to be significantly strengthened if it is to be seen as a long-term recovery capable of providing the necessary momentum to mitigate the eu's socioeconomic challenges. only investment capacity will be able to provide incentives for economic growth. only the budget surpluses and budgetary balances of the member states will allow the funds needed for the investments that will lead to sustained growth in the euro area to be released.
in writing. - i know . i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: social and employment aspects in the annual growth survey for 2014. in this document, parliament again expressed its concern that youth unemployment rates remained very high and noted that the situation of young unemployed people was particularly worrying. in this context, it called on the commission and the member states to take urgent measures to enable young people to enter the labour market, requiring the member states to implement new or long-agreed measures to combat youth unemployment and reduce the number of young people who are out of employment, education or training, taking into account the qualitative aspect of decent work and strictly respecting basic labour standards.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. youth unemployment rates have reached unprecedented levels, with an average of 23%, rising to 50% in some member states. i would like to emphasize that for the first time the european semester includes an area related to social and employment policies, thus assuming a new importance in the context of reducing the macroeconomic imbalances of the member states. i am voting in favour of this report which stresses the importance of european funds helping to boost economic activity, advocating the existence of quality jobs and living wages with a view to increasing productivity and the importance of reforms helping to improve quality work. i think it is a serious matter that more than 20 member states have reduced education expenditure in relative terms (as a percentage of gdp), thus putting their growth and competitiveness at risk.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the main problem remains how populations in different parts of the world will survive, as the area of arable land has been reduced due to inadequate land use, including bad agricultural practices. a problem that has been exacerbated by climate change. another problem is the limited possibilities of increasing the area under cultivation for agricultural production, for reasons of biodiversity preservation, among others. in addition, the fao estimates that an increase in agricultural production of about 10% will be possible through the cultivation of new agricultural land, which means that about 90% of the increase should come from the increase in the yield of existing agricultural land, while at the same time the high quality of the products must be preserved. given that over-exploitation of agricultural land can impoverish the soil and, in the worst case, lead to erosion, desertification and unproductivity, i believe that it is urgent to take measures to ensure that food is produced in sufficient quantity and quality to ensure human subsistence in the long term.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this one because it stresses that since the development of a new variety requires about 10 years from the research stage to the final seed and an additional period for testing and commercial distribution, substantially more investment in research is still needed to meet future food needs and to resist climate change.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. - this report is based on the assumption that the only options for improving agricultural quality and production are selective plant breeding, in particular genetic selection. this report is a defence of gmos in europe, suggesting that they are inevitable if we are to respond to the food difficulties and biodiversity loss we are already beginning to face. referring to fao and who data on food shortages and poverty, loss of biodiversity, degradation of agro-ecosystems and accelerating climate change, this report rejects arguments to respond to these data that the only cause is the lack of variety of agricultural products and little investment in research into new crops and farming methods, never mentioning that these imbalances are rooted in the existing agricultural and trade policies and will not be resolved without a profound change in both. the report is intended to suggest that another problem which is causing this situation is that there is limited new available arable land, and that it is therefore vital to develop high-productivity, high-quality agriculture, that is, intensive and industrial agriculture. he advocates genetic engineering. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
in writing. - the world population is expected to increase from the present 7 billion to about 9 billion between 2040 and 2050, and could even reach 10 or 11 billion. this increase in population will put extreme pressure on agriculture, particularly in terms of increasing productivity to meet the growing demand for food. on the other hand, the agricultural area is shrinking, so we have to produce more with less, so we have to invest in new techniques that allow us to do that. this report points to possible solutions for making agricultural production more efficient in the future and for producing more with the same resources. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - there is no doubt that european agriculture faces enormous challenges and that, due to more extreme weather conditions such as drought, floods and other natural disasters, agriculture has to adapt to protect production. the duration of plant variety protection for plants which require a long period of time for their development before the marketing stage is inadequate to encourage commercial investment in their research and development, and therefore an effective and competitive selective plant breeding sector is of particular importance. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on selective plant breeding: options for increasing quality and production.
in writing. - this paper analyses the future challenges of the selective cropping sector, such as the need for food supplies and climate change. it is necessary to stress the importance of protecting and preserving biological and genetic diversity in the european union by seeking ways of increasing productivity in order to ensure long-term food security for future generations. efforts must be made to facilitate the development of new crops with a higher capacity to adapt to environmental conditions, as the opportunities for acquiring new agricultural land are becoming more limited. we must promote research and the practice of selective plant breeding, which is crucial for the future of european agricultural production, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
he asks under the blue card procedure. we have heard some of the reservations expressed by the honourable member about this railway package. but the truth is that the socialist group has supported the path of liberalization that has been taken, in particular the previous railway packages. and the question i wanted to ask you was... he has advocated here the separation of the infrastructure manager, at least the one that exists. what is your assessment, for example, of the sharp increase in operating costs as a result of the separation? or what is your assessment of the closure of numerous subsidiary stations since the opening?
in writing. at the moment when the fourth railway liberalization package is being debated in the european parliament, thousands of railway workers from various countries are protesting against the attempts to introduce this package and denouncing the harmful consequences of the three previous legislative packages. they are fighting against the liberalization and privatization of this strategic sector, against the proclaimed opening up of national markets to private operators, a process with disastrous consequences in several countries. if there were any doubts, the reality is there to prove it: loss of passengers and transport quotas, closure of railway lines, breakdown of company accounts, increase in job insecurity, degradation of infrastructure, threats to the safety of workers and users, degradation of services, price increases. not content with this, this is the path they now want to pursue. the aim of the single market they proclaim is to give the monopolies in the sector (mainly the german and french monopolies) what they have not yet been able to get their hands on. the final blow to the public railway service. you will have to count on the determined struggle of the workers and the people! rail transport is strategic for economic, social, energy and environmental reasons, which is why it must be publicly owned and managed.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's action programme for health and safety at work is a good one. the overall budget of the programme, eur 449 million, was up 6% on the previous financial framework, at a time when it was declining. but it is far short of the 3 764 million allocated to the internal security fund, the european union's security fund. how can safety be worth so much more than a program that aims at promoting health and preventing disease? protecting citizens from cross-border health risks, contributing to sustainable and innovative health systems and facilitating access to health systems. it is very positive that the actions to be co-financed are targeted at universities, research or health institutes and ngos, independent of industry and commercial interests. however, the cofinancing rate will be a hindrance in many member states which, like portugal and greece, are under troika intervention, with a drastic reduction in their research and health budgets. not to mention the macro-conditionality in access to the structural funds, which will exclude those who would most need the programme. and what can this programme complement in greece, for example, where less than two weeks ago most health centres closed for a month without being replaced by any other system? not to mention the number of people dying from the flu because there's not enough vaccines. or in portugal, where the national health service is being dismantled. because it's health care, you should be more consistent.
madam president, this third programme is very important, because it complements the policies of the member states to improve the health of their citizens and reduce health inequalities. according to european commission data, in 2010, the difference in life expectancy at birth between the most developed and least developed european regions was 13.4 years for men and 10.6 years for women. in seven regions of the union, infant mortality rates were 2.5 times higher than the average in the same year. unfortunately, health inequalities have increased with austerity policies, especially in countries under bailout like mine, portugal. the inclusion of the reduction of health inequalities in the thematic priorities of the programme is therefore positive. in the current context of crisis, measures to promote health and the integration of health into all policies are even more necessary. the co-financing of actions up to 80% is welcome, which will encourage member states with lower incomes to participate in the programme as well.
mr president, i would like to say that in the small and mediumsized european countries exports to the other european countries are about 70% or more. a small or medium-sized country needs to diversify its export destinations. if they cannot have a single legal language for this diversification, their efforts are frustrated. that is why this legislation is extremely important for developing cross-border trade, for developing exporting small and mediumsized enterprises, which is what we all want, after all, in this room. finally, mr president, i would like to remind you that 115 years ago, the european countries met with the united states of america, met in switzerland, and created the uniform law of letters, cheques and payments. this law has been the basic normalisation of the financial functioning of all our countries for all these years. we need a contract of this kind to renew that capacity and to renew cross-border trade.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tackling youth unemployment is the most important social challenge facing the european union. this response must be effective and urgent. we cannot abandon our young people and we cannot waste our human resources and our talents, nor can we resign ourselves to the fact that the most qualified generation will always be left behind and not be allowed to participate in the economic growth that europe so badly needs. portugal is one of the member states with this problem and has responded to it. he developed the impulso joven program, which was in force until the end of 2013 and involved more than 90,000 young people. 67 per cent of these young people were covered by traineeships and were able to enter the labour market. the youth boost will be succeeded by the new union programme: youth guarantee. the portuguese government has decided to extend the application of this guarantee not only to unemployed young people but also to all young people between the ages of 15 and 30 who are not in employment, school or training programmes. this will enable some 400 000 more training, education and employment opportunities for young portuguese people to be created in the coming years and will involve eur 1 300 million.
in writing. it is very important that the european union recognises the importance of having specific instruments to combat youth unemployment. they also need to be implemented with urgency and effectiveness, and this debate is therefore welcome. it is of course important to bear in mind that this is a phenomenon which contributes to the worsening of the economic situation. of course, only a full restoration of economic activity will create sustainable jobs, but in this area action must be taken now to counter this job-destroying trend, where young people are the most affected. the type of opportunities should be diversified, providing jobs, traineeships or further education. the focus should also be on the longterm unemployed and support for those who have provided these opportunities and who maintain the jobs created for young people. practices in the most successful countries should be improved, which have designed and implemented good programmes to support young people, by taking advantage of their qualifications, by employing young people in the business and social fabric, by giving them the conditions to continue their training, based on the needs and opportunities of the labour market, or by supporting initiatives, from an organised network of partners in permanent dialogue.
in writing. i am deeply concerned by the results of the swiss referendum on 9 february, in which 50.34% of its citizens voted for the introduction of annual quotas for eu immigrants and the principle of preference for national workers over workers from eu countries. this is bad news for the eu, but especially for switzerland, which is giving in to populist and demagogic pressures that are unfortunately spreading across europe, and witnessing a rise in anti-immigration sentiment. i have no doubt that this decision calls into question the bilateral agreement with the eu, which has allowed for freedom of movement between the two since 2002. participation in the single market does not allow for a la carte choice. on the contrary, the four freedoms of movement of persons, goods, capital and services are inseparable. i hope that switzerland is aware of the consequences that the possible implementation of this decision may entail. there is no room for any kind of negotiation. freedom of movement is a fundamental right which cannot be restricted and it is a common duty of both the european institutions and the member states to protect this right. the ec has already warned switzerland and should be prepared to defend this fundamental right to the last consequence.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in its communication on better governance for the single market, the commission identified areas which are essential to improve the functioning and the deepening of the single market: services, financial services, transport, energy and the digital market. i would point out that the identification methodology should be evaluated and regularly reviewed for actual and current data. i believe that these areas remain a priority and that coordination efforts should be maintained and/or relaunched. i also believe that they should be enriched and combined with other aspects strictly related to the single market policies and that other measures and proposals should be put forward. a coherent and integrated industrial policy is essential to recover european economies and allow a stable way out of the crisis. better protection of citizens' rights, both as consumers and as workers, is essential to enhance trust in the single market and encourage responsible behaviour.
in the first place, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in wine. the coordination of economic and employment policies must be supplemented by a fundamental part covering all possible levers to stimulate the real economy. the coordination of single market priorities in the context of the european semester should be based on a more robust democratic process with the full participation of national parliaments, respect for the prerogatives of the european parliament and adequate space for social partners and stakeholders. on the other hand, improving the protection of citizens' rights, both as consumers and as workers, is essential to enhancing trust in the single market and encouraging responsible behaviour. the coordination of single market policies must seek to rediscover a new model of competitiveness, based on knowledge and innovation, for which increased investment in education and research is needed. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need for more horizontal coordination and coherence in the preparation of legislative proposals relevant to the single market. i believe that the governance of the single market must take due account of the needs of all stakeholders and that a stronger and earlier involvement of social partners, civil society and other stakeholders is needed in the design, adoption, implementation and monitoring of measures to boost growth and strengthen citizens' rights in the single market.
in writing. - in 2012, the single market completed its 20th year of existence and over the course of these 20 years many steps have been taken towards its realisation, with the development of various tools and instruments. it is also now undeniable that the single market is a key engine for economic growth and employment in the european union. the internal market is the best tool we have to restore growth to the eu economies, especially at this time of severe economic and financial crisis, and it must be used correctly, effectively and decisively. putting the internal market at the service of citizens and businesses is essential to boosting the european economy, creating jobs and improving competitiveness. strengthening the governance of the single market is closely linked to the practical possibility of establishing a specific pillar of the european semester, which should allow a clear set of priorities related to the real economy to be covered and indicate effective levers to stimulate growth and competitiveness.
in writing. - in this report, the european parliament calls on the european commission to define the single market as the third pillar of the european semester, in order to strengthen the governance of the single market. it stressed the importance of the commission acceding to parliament's request to submit a legislative proposal with defined targets, the implementation and monitoring of the transposition of directives by the member states and the obligation for member states to draw up and submit to the commission national action plans to implement the objectives of what they consider to be the improvement of the functioning of the single market. moreover, this report is a tribute to liberalisation. the single market will only be complete when the single market is improved and deepened in the energy, transport, digital and public procurement and concession legislation sectors. this is to liberalise areas essential to the economic and social development of a country, leading to the weakening of the economically most vulnerable countries, the destruction of their productive capacity and the increase of their external dependence. we obviously voted against it.
in the first place, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in wine. the coordination of economic and employment policies must be complemented by a core part covering all possible levers to stimulate the real economy which might otherwise fall outside the overall coordination of the european semester. the coordination of single market priorities in the context of the european semester should be based on a more robust democratic process with the full participation of national parliaments.
in the first place, the commission has to be able to take account of the fact that the single market is a major economic and social issue. this report aims to maintain the necessary focus on the way the single market is functioning in the european union, with comments on previously made recommendations, an updated position on the content of the next annual growth survey and priority actions at national and european level, as well as the recent efforts made by the commission with regard to the multiplicity of instruments for the governance of the single market. the new policies include the creation of the single market online assessment panel, which aims to ensure consistent communication, analysing strengths and weaknesses and offering various incentives for improvement. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i know . the main objective of this report is to focus on the way the single market currently operates in the european union, taking into account the next annual growth survey (ags) and priority actions at national and european level. the governance of the single market has been placed as a top priority on the european political agenda, thanks to several initiatives by the european commission and the european parliament, with the constant support of the european council. the governance of the single market thus requires the coordination of economic and employment policies in order to stimulate the real economy. the 2013 sme actions plan is a first step, as it includes a report on the state of integration of the single market, indicating the problems and shortcomings of the single market. it also sets out the priorities relating to the real economy and what measures need to be taken to stimulate growth and competitiveness. i would also like to highlight the organisation of single market month, between 23 september and 23 october 2013, where a number of european citizens, experts and eu leaders joined in various debates and events to find ideas for the future of the single market.
in writing. the ep calls on the commission to define the single market as the third pillar of the european semester, in order to strengthen the governance of the single market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. moreover, this report is a tribute to liberalisation. it considered that the single market would only be complete if the single market was improved and deepened in the energy, transport, digital and public procurement and concession legislation sectors. this is to liberalise areas essential to the economic and social development of a country, leading to the weakening of the economically most vulnerable countries, the destruction of their productive capacity and the increase of their external dependence.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the view that the economic, financial and social crisis has put a stop to the convergence process and may have led to a setback, widening disparities between regions and ending a long period during which regional disparities in gdp per head and unemployment in the european union have been declining consistently, while the most vulnerable regions of the union are being the most affected. fiscal consolidation policies are insufficient on their own to boost growth and promote investments capable of generating quality and sustainable jobs. the commission and the member states need to increase investment in entrepreneurship, business creation and self-employment to create more jobs. it should be noted that smes and microenterprises employ about two thirds of the total private sector in the european union. it is important to take into account the considerable needs of many regions with low development rates in terms of investment in infrastructure projects in key sectors such as transport, telecommunications and sustainable energy.
in writing. - the development disparities between european regions have increased as a result of the economic and financial crisis that has gripped europe since at least 2008. in the interests of pursuing a triple growth objective (smart, sustainable and inclusive growth) based on research and innovation, the optimal and rational use of european energy resources and potential, and a proactive policy of job creation, the commission intends to take action under cohesion policy, with the support of the european regional bodies. however, the report's conclusions highlight the fact that convergence regions are not able to overcome their difficulties on their own and that the interaction between cities (economically vibrant but where the risks of poverty and exclusion are greater) and regions must be strengthened in order to pursue a common interest. the draft report aims to support the ongoing monitoring of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. the dependence of some member states and regions on cohesion funds is a cause for concern, with regional disparities and the effects of the crisis on groups at risk of poverty and exclusion to be tackled.
in writing. - in june 2010, the european council adopted the europe 2020 strategy, the eu's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. cohesion policy is a key instrument for delivering the europe 2020 strategy, with a long tradition of developing and implementing integrated regional and urban programmes in partnership with regional and local authorities, economic actors, social partners and civil society. it can give europe 2020 the active support of regional and local authorities it needs to succeed. on the other hand, the impact assessment of cohesion policies is essential to gauge the effectiveness of their implementation, so that the reports now assessed can help to make policies better targeted and more fruitful in the future.
in writing. in june 2010, the european council adopted the europe 2020 strategy, which is based on a set of actions and mechanisms aimed at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union. regional and local authorities can therefore make an important contribution to this strategy by taking action on their own responsibility and initiative. i am voting in favour of this report because cohesion policy is a key instrument for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, highlighting its important role in the design and implementation of the various integrated regional and urban programmes, as well as the respective partnerships between regional and local authorities, economic operators, social partners and civil society itself. cohesion policy can also give europe 2020 the active support of regional and local authorities which is crucial in pursuing the 2020 objectives.
in writing. - this report is an ode to the europe 2020 strategy and a report on the subordination of cohesion policy to this strategy. it begins by attributing the suspension of the convergence process to the crisis. however, it does not mention that there were regions which had not been moving towards convergence for many years before the crisis, but on the contrary, thus trying to shield eu policies from its disastrous consequences. the report contains some positive aspects which lose their dimension when inserted into the eu strategies and policies which generate their own destruction and aggravation, such as the potential of smes in terms of job creation and the improvement of access to finance and the financing conditions for smes, as well as giving special attention to the cultural and creative sectors and a brief reference to the outermost regions which emerge only as a contextualisation of what is intended for territorial cohesion, or expresses concerns about the employment situation of young people, all in favour of the eu 2020 strategy, even becoming contradictory in view of the effects that this and other eu policies have on these same sectors.
in writing. - i approve of this report because it proposes a modernised and up-to-date approach to the reality of the ors, so that investment policies in the ors are applicable to new areas with a view to sustainable development. i consider this change of scope to be important, since it means that the confinement of the outermost regions goes beyond the areas of regional and agricultural policy and integrates them into the whole of european policies, making the best use of them. the european union's support for the outermost regions goes beyond european solidarity and is a support for the benefit of the whole european union, enabling it to achieve growth objectives as a whole, to project itself in the world and to participate in solving the major global challenges. whether it is dialogue with the acp countries, the fight against climate change, the safeguarding of biodiversity, the protection of coral reefs, health, the preservation of regional languages or cultural diversity, the european union has nothing to gain from its outermost regions if it is to achieve the objectives it sets itself. and the outermost regions of spain, portugal and france are the challenges and ambitions of a union in constant development.
in writing. - this own-initiative report focuses on the potential of the outermost regions and their integration into european programmes, including europe and horizon 2020. the outermost regions have geographical conditions, cultural idiosyncrasies, specific flora and fauna, natural resources and high-quality agricultural and livestock production which deserve to be protected and encouraged, although they do not have the same capacity for economic recovery and strength as the continental european union, and they require special attention and specific responses to their specific problems. the european union must support these outposts of european culture and civilization, ensure adequate income levels for their populations, protect their main crops and products and invest in new ways of developing and promoting their rich potential, such as that of marine resources. the ors have a huge potential for tourism, science (in particular in the fields of seismology and volcanology) and innovation (aerospace). it is the responsibility of the union, together with the member states and the governments of the octs, to combat high unemployment rates, and to strengthen accessibility and integration into european transport and communications networks, promote job creation and improve their access to european programmes.
in the case of the outermost regions, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's policies are coordinated and coordinated. the aim of this report is to propose a change of approach, by overcoming current and sometimes outdated views, so that investment policies in the octs can be opened up to new areas and enable their sustainable development. this means that we must abandon the confinement of the ors to regional and agricultural policies and integrate them as much as possible into the whole of european policies and make the best use of them. the european union's support for its outermost regions is not simply an expression of european solidarity. it is a support, for the benefit of the whole european union, to the achievement of the objectives in terms of growth, projection in the world and participation in solving the major planetary challenges. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the case of the former yugoslavia, the eu has been able to take a number of steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the former yugoslavia has been occupied by the former yugoslavia. article 349 tfeu recognises the difficulties and specificities of the ors, such as their isolation and geographical remoteness from the european continent. however, these regions are also a reason for the projection of european borders at world level, and it is therefore necessary to call for a status which allows a genuine positive discrimination of these regions. in this sense, all european strategies and instruments should close the gap in the integration of the ors into the european area, and the various european investment programmes, such as horizon 2020, energy 2020, posei, life+, erasmus, european energy, transport and telecommunications networks, among others, should include the regions, as the potential of the ors can significantly contribute to the eu achieving the objectives it has set for 2020. for this reason, i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims at synergy between the various eu programmes for the benefit of the regions and their member states.
in the case of the outermost regions, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the regions are able to benefit from the new technologies. i therefore voted in favour of the proposals in this text, as the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group, particularly as it comes at the beginning of a new programming and financial period until 2020.
in writing. - the report sets out the starting point for the policy for the outermost regions in the light of the objectives set by the union to implement the europe 2020 strategy for growth, the horizon 2020 strategy, the energy 2020 strategy, the life+ and natura 2000 programmes, the trans-european networks for telecommunications, transport and energy. not everything is good or bad, but the contents of the eu 2020 strategy, energy 2020 (part of the package of full liberalisation of the energy market in all member states by 2015) are more important than the benefit generated by life+ and natura 2000. parliament called on the commission to step up the integration and development of the octs in the internal market and, with regard to the response to natural disasters, to develop and implement humanitarian response capabilities, calling for the creation of a european civil security force. however, the report does have some positive aspects, aiming to strengthen the european strategy for the ors, taking into account their structural and permanent constraints, identifying the important employment objectives (these regions have the highest unemployment rates, particularly among young people), social inclusion, the fight against poverty and education, mentioning environmental aspects and the preservation and rehabilitation of biodiversity, among others.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the evaluation report referred to in article 318 tfeu contributes to the analytical capacity of the budgetary authority based on the experience of past events. it should provide an overall and politically relevant assessment of union policies, focusing on the union's main objectives as defined by the commission itself. the commission should explain in a simple, concise and comprehensive manner how eu expenditure contributes to the overall objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the targets of the key initiatives. i believe that under these conditions the evaluation report will be considered the missing link between the performance evaluation and the performance audit. it will also contribute to strengthening the performance culture in the financial management of the union and to preparing the transition to a truly performance-based budget.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report as it stresses that activity-based budgeting is still the fundamental principle in the preparation of the union budget; expresses its concern that the court of auditors concludes in its 2012 annual report that in many areas of the eu budget the legislative framework is complex and not enough attention is paid to performance, and regrets that the proposals on agriculture and cohesion for the 2014-2020 programming period remain essentially expenditure-oriented and therefore still focused on compliance with the rules rather than on performance.
in 2011, the european parliament called for a review of the european commission's policy on the preparation of the annual report on the state of the union's finances. the report will thus make a clear division between the union's internal and external policies, focusing in particular on the pursuit of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the budgetary discharge should be used to assess the financial performance of the union. in accordance with article 318 of the treaty, the commission is to submit an annual report on this matter. this evaluation report, which focuses on financial performance, complements the compliance approach developed by the european court of auditors in chapters 1 to 9 of its annual report. it gives the european parliament the opportunity to assess political achievements and the legality of financial transactions. this change also facilitates the transition from activity-based to performance-based budgeting. this new instrument is essential for the evaluation of the performance of the union's finances. only a good use of resources can achieve the objectives proposed. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this evaluation report referred to in article 318 tfeu contributes to the analytical capacity of the budgetary authority to draw appropriate lessons from the past. it should provide an overall and politically relevant assessment of union policies, focusing on the union's main objectives as defined by the commission itself. the commission should explain in a simple, concise and comprehensive manner how eu expenditure contributes to the overall objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the targets of the flagship initiatives. in these circumstances, the evaluation report is the missing link between performance evaluation and performance audit and will also contribute to reinforcing the performance culture in the financial management of the union and to preparing the transition to a truly performance-based budget. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this procedure.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council should adopt a decision on the discharge to be given to the european parliament and the council in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000. in accordance with article 318 of the treaty, the european commission is to submit an annual report on this matter. this is a document that focuses on financial performance and offers the european parliament the opportunity to assess policy achievements and the legality of financial transactions. the main objective of the discharge procedure is therefore to check that eu funds have been managed correctly and that all revenue and expenditure is shown in the balance sheet. in parallel with this annual report from the european commission, parliament also examines reports adopted by the court of auditors which focus on the sound management of different sectors or policies. this is a document which contributes to the preparation of a budget which is actually based on the performance of the european parliament in the long term and is therefore essential. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that although the 112 service already exists and the psaps are in place and operating, showing good performance, the service should be extended to all member states. as a result of the heero (harmonised ecall european pilot) project organised by the commission, some member states (czech republic, croatia and romania) are ready for the deployment of the 112 ecall service and the investment by the member states will be minimal. the rapporteur therefore considers that 1 october 2015 is a realistic date for member states to adequately upgrade their infrastructures. since the 112 service is still poorly known to the public, it would be appropriate for member states to contribute to the promotion of the ecall 112 service, its functionalities and possibilities, through awareness campaigns. in order to ensure coherence between the various member states, the commission should coordinate and support the organisation of these campaigns.
in writing. - the ecall system, which automatically calls the emergency services (112) in the event of a serious accident, will be available to all of us, drivers and passengers of light vehicles. in order to protect personal data of each individual, manufacturers shall ensure that vehicles equipped with the ecall in-vehicle system are not traceable and are not subject to a constant location in their pre-emergency state of operation of the service. i am sure that this system will save lives all over europe, which is why i am in favour of it.
in writing. - this proposal addresses the public safety answering point (psap) infrastructure part of the commission's strategy on the interoperable eu-wide emergency call service (ecall), which follows a tripartite regulatory approach covering in-vehicle system, telecommunications networks and psaps. road safety is one of the major aspects of the european union's transport policy. in 2011, some 30 000 people died and more than 1.5 million were injured in some 1.1 million road accidents on eu roads. in addition to the tragedy of loss of life and injury, this reality also entails an economic cost to society of around eur 130 billion per year. we believe that the implementation of the ecall system will help to combat this serious problem by contributing to significantly reducing the arrival times of first aid to the accident victims. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the commission has been working on ecall since 2005 and has tried to roll it out on a voluntary basis. since this voluntary approach has not worked (currently only around 0.7% of vehicles are equipped with an ecall system), the commission has started to adopt legislation to make ecall a mandatory service in new vehicles. the ecall system shall be activated automatically as soon as the sensors in the vehicle detect a major accident. once activated, the system dials the european emergency number 112, establishes a telephone link with the appropriate emergency call centre and sends information about the accident to the rescue services, including the time of the incident, the exact position of the vehicle involved and the direction in which it was travelling. the ecall call can also be activated manually by pressing a button in the car, for example by a witness to a serious accident. road safety has always been a very important issue for the european parliament, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report. in fact, an automated call can lead to a faster response by emergency services, resulting in fewer fatalities and less serious injuries for drivers and european citizens.
in writing. - ecall in passenger and commercial vehicles should be operational in all member states from 2015, the so-called interoperability of the 112 system. despite the proximity of the october 2015 date, both the commission and parliament believe that member states will be ready, as the heero pilot project has been developed and the different countries have already applied much of the necessary work. the proposal also calls on the member states to take measures to raise awareness of the importance of the number '112' among the general public. to ensure coordination, the commission will monitor and support the organisation of these campaigns. i am in favour of this report which will standardize the implementation of ecall in the 28 member states of the union.
in writing. - the ecall system proposed in the report is an emergency telephone service for first contact with an accident-involved vehicle and for dispatching first aid. the ecall system shall be activated automatically as soon as the sensors in the vehicle detect a major accident. once activated, the system dials the european emergency number 112, establishes a telephone link with the appropriate emergency call centre and sends information about the accident to the rescue services, including the time of the incident, the exact position of the vehicle involved and the direction in which it was travelling. one of the problems is the issue of privacy and data protection, since the system will have information on the location of vehicles and even, in the event of an accident, the possibility of accessing the car's interior audio system. on the other hand, it should be mandatory to be linked to the national health system to avoid economic exploitation. there seems to be no credible guarantee that this big brother of road accident assistance cannot be used for other interests, particularly if it is handed over to the private sector.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the adpc was designed to strengthen the previously existing cooperation defined by the 1993 framework agreement for cooperation between the european union and central america. the agreement obliges the parties to work towards an association agreement, following the agreement already signed in june 2012, which was the result of five years of negotiations. however, only the trade pillar of the association agreement applies today. the remaining countries still need to be ratified by the member states, which is still pending. when the association agreement enters into force in its entirety, the tprfmo shall only apply to the extent that its rules are compatible with the association agreement. the title on political dialogue formalises and consolidates the san josé process. i consider this cooperation agreement to be important, since it seeks to extend it to new areas such as human rights, migration and the fight against terrorism, building on existing cooperation.
- political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the ec and costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, with the exception of article 49.
in writing. - the political dialogue and cooperation agreement was signed on 15 december 2003 in rome and the european parliament approved its conclusion in consultation in 2004. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and the completion of the ratification process by the member states in december 2011, the commission has submitted a new proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in 2012, to which the european parliament must give its consent again. the association agreement between the european union and central america was signed in june 2012 after five years of negotiations. however, only the trade pillar of the association agreement is in force. the remainder is still pending ratification by all the member states of the european union. once the association agreement enters into force in its entirety, the political dialogue agreement shall apply only to the extent that its provisions are compatible with the association agreement. i hope that both instruments will contribute to closer commercial, cultural and economic relations between the peoples, institutions and businesses of the states concerned.
in writing. - the political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) between the eu and central america was signed on 15 december 2003 in rome. in accordance with the consultation procedure then in force, the council consulted the european parliament, which approved the conclusion of the tprc in 2004. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the completion of the ratification process by the member states in december 2011, the commission presented a new proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the tprc in 2012. although the text of the cfsp included in the proposal remains unchanged, the wording of the proposal itself does not correspond to that of the draft council decision submitted to the european parliament in 2004. since any amendment to an approved proposal requires a repeat of the approval process, the approval of the european parliament is again required. we therefore submit this report to the european parliament for approval.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the united states does not become a party to the agreement. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the completion of the ratification process by the member states in december 2011, the commission presented in 2012 a new proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement, which requires the present approval by the european parliament. i am in favour of this agreement, which obliges the parties to work towards a more ambitious association agreement, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) between the european union and central america aims to strengthen the previously existing cooperation, which had been established by the 1993 framework cooperation agreement. this document states that both parties are obliged to work towards an association agreement, which was subsequently signed in june 2012 and today applies to the association in the trade sphere. the acp states shall cooperate with the commission and the other states parties to the paris agreement in order to promote the sustainable development of the two regions. the new agreement builds on existing cooperation and extends it to new areas such as human rights, migration and the fight against terrorism, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of this report, the political dialogue and cooperation agreement committed the parties to work towards the establishment of an association agreement, which was signed in june 2012. only the trade part is currently in force, with the remaining components of the association agreement pending ratification by the member states. this led to the extension of the tfa. the association agreement is a manipulative way of calling what is really a free trade agreement which guarantees the eu's large economic groups the dominance of the immense natural wealth of these countries, their soil and agriculture, giving them privileges in investment and trade in goods and services, pressured by the lower prices in agricultural production of producers who are already subject to prices that often do not compensate for production costs, pressing even more on workers' wages. although these are countries with fragile and small economies, this agreement is of great importance, since it is a gateway to the interests of the eu, which seeks to condition the processes of cooperation and integration in the region, whose vocation, contrary to the agreements promoted by the eu, is to satisfy the interests and aspirations of the peoples.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that although the partnership text is much broader, covering a wide range of aspects, the libe committee should focus only on the issues provided for in article 49 (3) of the crpd, namely the mutual readmission of illegal migrants. the range of issues considered at the level of political dialogue includes: political dialogue; social and economic cooperation; cultural exchange; cooperation in the field of education and vocational training; consumer protection; health; data protection; scientific and technological cooperation; cooperation in the field of the environment and biodiversity; participation of civil society in cooperation; cooperation in the field of gender equality; cooperation with regard to indigenous peoples and other ethnic groups in central america, etc.
- the positive developments in this region of central america over the last decade have made it possible to promote common objectives and interests with the eu and to enter a phase of deeper, modern and permanent relations with a view to meeting the current internal challenges and international developments. in this context, a political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and central america was signed in 2003. however, it was not until 2011 that the final stage was completed, with the deposit of the last two outstanding ratifications, as it is a mixed agreement and all member states must ratify it. this partnership agreement covers a wide range of issues such as political dialogue, social and economic cooperation, cultural exchange, cooperation in the field of education and vocational training, consumer protection, health, data protection, scientific and technological cooperation, cooperation in the field of the environment and biodiversity, gender equality and the mutual readmission of illegal migrants. i therefore voted in favour of this instrument of approval so that this agreement can enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. - the political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) between the eu and central america was signed on 15 december 2003 in rome. in accordance with the consultation procedure then in force, the council consulted the european parliament, which approved the conclusion of the tprc in 2004. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the completion of the ratification process by the member states in december 2011, the commission presented a new proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the tprc in 2012. although the text of the cfsp included in the proposal remains unchanged, the wording of the proposal itself does not correspond to that of the draft council decision submitted to the european parliament in 2004. since any amendment to an approved proposal requires a repeat of the approval process, the approval of the european parliament is again required. we therefore submit this report to the european parliament for approval. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the eu-central america political dialogue and cooperation agreement was signed in december 2003 in accordance with the consultation procedure applicable at the time. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the completion of the ratification process by the member states in december 2011, the commission presented a new proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the tprc in 2012. following this new proposal, parliament must give its consent again, even though the text of the cfsp contained in this new proposal remains unchanged. in these terms and in view of the favourable opinions of the committees concerned, i have voted in favour of this procedure.
in writing. - the political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) between the european union and central america is intended to strengthen the previously existing cooperation established by the 1993 framework cooperation agreement. the partnership document is quite broad, covering a wide range of aspects such as political dialogue, social and economic cooperation, cultural exchange, among others. however, this recommendation highlights article 49 (3) of the crpd, which concerns the mutual readmission of illegal migrants. as this is an essential aspect for good cooperation between the european union and the republics of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, i voted in favour of adopting this document.
in writing. - the political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) between the eu and central america was signed in december 2003 and approved for conclusion in 2004. due to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the commission submitted a new proposal for a council decision in 2012, which parliament must give its consent to again, even if the text remains unchanged. this report deals only with the issues set out in article 49 (3) of the crpd, namely the mutual readmission of illegal migrants, i.e. central american countries agree to readmit their nationals illegally present in the territory of an eu member state, ... providing them with the appropriate identity documents and granting them the necessary administrative facilities for this purpose, as their counterparts eu member states agree to do the same. this is a procedure based on the logic of expulsion, rooted in the principles of labour exploitation, an instrument of discrimination against workers and asylum seekers, and it disrespects the aspirations of people who come to the eu in search of a better life. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that on 26 march 2010 the european council approved the european commission's proposal to launch a new strategy for jobs and growth europe 2020 based on greater coordination of economic policies, which will focus on the key areas. this new strategy requires measures to strengthen europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness. to this end, the european council agreed to define eu broad objectives, which are shared objectives guiding the action of the member states and the european union. the treaty on the functioning of the eu provides that member states shall regard their economic and employment policies as matters of common concern and shall coordinate them within the council. this action is provided for in two separate articles, which provide that the council is to adopt general guidelines for economic policies (article 121) and employment policies (article 148) and specify that the latter must be consistent with the former.
in writing. - the europe 2020 strategy is based on greater coordination of member states' economic policies to strengthen the european union's sustainable growth potential and competitiveness. member states should regard their economic policies and the promotion of employment as matters of common interest. the priorities for member states are: increasing participation in economic activity and reducing unemployment, developing a skilled workforce, promoting quality jobs and lifelong learning, improving the performance of education and training systems, increasing participation in tertiary education, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. the employment policy guidelines adopted in 2010 should therefore remain stable until 2014 in order to ensure their effective implementation. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am glad that i voted in favour of this report because i took account of the commission's proposal to the council.
in writing. - i support the decision taken today to maintain the political objectives already set for employment policies and as adopted in the eu 2020 strategy. the strategy adopted must be maintained and pursued jointly by the european institutions and the member states, so that we can move towards a system of full employment, social inclusion and high levels of sustainability.
in writing. - i know . on 26 march 2010, the european council endorsed the european commission's proposal to launch a new strategy for jobs and growth, europe 2020, based on greater coordination of economic policies, which will focus on the key areas where action is needed to strengthen europe's sustainable growth potential and competitiveness. to this end, the european council agreed to set out eu broad objectives, which are shared targets to guide action by the member states and the union. these are the guidelines we are now validating here. i hope that they will be both necessary and sufficient to combat the high levels of unemployment which have affected the whole of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states in which parliament approves the commission proposal, asks the council to inform it if it considers that it is departing from the text adopted by parliament, and requests further consultation if the council intends to substantially amend the text adopted by parliament.
in writing. - in the european union as a whole, the unemployment rate stood at 10.7% in the last month of 2013, affecting more than 26.2 million people, down slightly from 10.8% in november. in the euro area, the unemployment rate remained at 12% in december, the same level as in october, and about 19 million people were unemployed. i believe it is essential that the member states coordinate new active employment measures and implement existing and well-established ones, both in the european semester of economic policies and in the various programmes developed, such as the youth guarantee. i support this report, which contains a number of proposals to improve the employability of european citizens and young people.
in writing. - i approve this report, first of all by congratulating myself on the aim of the commission's proposal to increase the efficiency of vat collection. this action, in my view, will simultaneously reduce bureaucracy and the costs associated with the tax administration of the member states and for taxable persons. i also welcome the aim of limiting the information requirements to what is strictly necessary for vat control and collection. the proposal therefore ensures a reasonable balance and proportionality between the need to reduce the burden on business activities and to remove obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market. i also share the view that all companies should be allowed to provide up to 26 standard pieces of information to the tax authorities of the member states in which they operate, in a common format and preferably electronically. this initiative should save time for all those involved in the vat return and help to avoid or correct errors easily. this will increase the control capacity of the union tax administrations.
in writing. - vat is an indirect tax on consumption, ultimately borne by the final consumer. this tax represents about 21% of the national tax revenues of the member states. however, given that an amount equivalent to 12% of vat revenues is left uncollected annually, it will be necessary to implement a more effective vat system, which adequately prevents or eliminates the various forms of vat fraud. the commission has therefore proposed simplification measures for the collection of this tax. it proposed a standard vat return, which will reduce the administrative burden associated with the collection of vat, increase the efficiency of vat collection, while reducing red tape and the associated costs for member states' tax administrations. paying agents will also benefit from a simpler and less costly procedure. as the declaration will be completed electronically, member states should make available all the information necessary for its correct completion so that the declaration is handed over in an appropriate manner. in view of the above and the benefits of more effective collection of this tax at european level, i have supported this report.
in writing. - i am pleased that you voted in favour of this report in order to further reduce the burden on businesses and improve the functioning of the internal market. the information requirements in the standard vat return should be made uniform across the member states and, within five years from the date of entry into force of this directive, the commission will assess its application in this respect and make appropriate proposals.
in writing. - bearing in mind that vat represents 21% of the official revenue of the member states and that half of this amount is not collected annually, which translates into a considerable loss of revenue with a significant budgetary impact, i vote in favour of this report, which advances the need to implement a more efficient vat system with a view to eliminating in the medium term the various forms of evasion in the collection of this tax. i welcome the proposal to introduce a standard vat return, which will reduce, according to european commission estimates, up to eur 15 billion per calendar year in unnecessary administrative costs. this is a measure which contributes to the much-needed relief on the expenditure side of the public budgets of the member states of the union, especially in times of economic crisis such as the one we are going through and, in particular, in the case of countries with adjustment programmes such as portugal.
in writing. - a set of rules has been adopted today on the information to be required on vat refund declarations. these rules will have to be adopted and actively implemented by all the member states of the union, allowing for a harmonisation of the minimum rules in this area. i believe that this is an important step which will allow for a substantial reduction in red tape and will actively contribute to the implementation of the european policy to combat fraud.
in writing. - vat is an indirect tax on consumption, ultimately borne by the final consumer. this tax represents about 21% of the national tax revenues of the member states. however, given that an amount equivalent to 12% of vat revenues is left uncollected annually, it will be necessary to implement a more effective vat system, which adequately prevents or eliminates the various forms of vat fraud. the commission has therefore proposed simplification measures for the collection of this tax. it proposed a standard vat return, which will reduce the administrative burden associated with the collection of vat, increase the efficiency of vat collection, while reducing red tape and the associated costs for member states' tax administrations. paying agents will also benefit from a simpler and less costly procedure. the report also stresses that the introduction of this standardisation is very positive for the better collection and payment of vat at union level, as well as for the control of the payment of this tax, combating tax evasion and fraud. as the declaration will be completed electronically, member states should make available all the information necessary for its correct completion so that the delivery of the declaration is carried out in a secure and appropriate manner. in view of the above and the benefits of more effective collection of this tax at european level, i support this report, which has my vote in favour.
in writing. - the vat system requires companies to complete the periodic vat returns with the detailed information necessary for the payment and control of vat, which can be particularly complex if vat returns are submitted in different member states. such complexity is the result of different information being provided, the fact that the information does not include harmonised definitions, the lack of good common guidelines, the existence of various rules and multiple procedures for the submission of declarations and for any corrections, and the need to use the national language. all this leads to an increase in the burden on businesses, to a lower accuracy and timeliness of vat returns, and further restricting cross-border trade. of the options assessed in detail, the preferred option is the standard vat return, which is mandatory for member states and for companies, and which presents a list of standard information of which only a small number is required in all cases. this option maximises the reduction of burdens for businesses while limiting costs for member states. the preferred option is expected to reduce administrative burdens by up to eur 15 billion per year. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - value added tax (vat) is an indirect tax on consumption ultimately borne by the final consumer, and represents about 21% of member states' tax revenues. however, as an amount equivalent to 12% of vat revenues is left uncollected annually, a more effective system is necessary to implement, which adequately prevents or eliminates vat fraud. the commission has therefore proposed the introduction of simplification measures in the collection of this tax, through a standardised vat return, which will reduce the administrative burden and increase the efficiency of vat collection, while reducing red tape and the associated costs for member states' tax administrations, while taxpayers will also benefit from a simpler and less burdensome procedure. the report also stresses that this standardisation is very positive for improving the collection and payment of vat at eu level, as well as for monitoring the payment of this tax, combating tax evasion and fraud. in view of the above, and in view of the benefits of more effective collection of this tax at european level, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the proposal to reduce the burden on businesses through the harmonisation of vat returns is essentially aimed at further reducing the costs of the large economic groups - those that carry out the most transactions in the context of the eu single market. the objective of combating vat fraud by limiting the information requirements to what is strictly necessary is contradictory, since this simplification gives companies greater leeway to evade taxation, especially since the free movement of capital, goods and services remains untouched. contrary to what the dominant political forces in the eu would have us believe, the fight against fraud and the increase in tax revenue in the member states is not to be done by strengthening the single market and tax harmonization in the eu, but by increasing the taxation of the large economic groups and by effectively combating fraud, which must go beyond the end of tax havens and the dogmas of the single market and the free movement of capital.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that council decision 2009/831/ec of 10 november 2009 adopted on the basis of article 299 (2) of the ec treaty terminated on 31 december 2013 the authorisation given to portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores. the planned 75% reduction is not more than necessary to compensate for the additional costs borne by operators due to the particular characteristics of these regions as an oda. article 2 of that decision limits that derogation to specific products. portugal may apply a rate of excise duty lower than the full rate of excise duty applicable to alcohol laid down in article 3 of council directive 92/84/eec, and lower than the minimum rate of excise duty on alcohol provided for in that directive, but not lower by more than 75% than the normal national rate of excise duty on alcohol. this reduction makes it possible to eliminate the inequality in competitiveness to which these regions are subject as the outermost regions.
in writing. - i know . council decision 2009/831/ec of 10 november 2009 authorises portugal to apply, until 31 december 2013, a reduced rate of excise duty to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores. article 2 of that decision limits that derogation to specific products. portugal may apply to these products a rate of excise duty lower than the full rate of the duty applicable to alcohol laid down in article 3 of council directive 92/84/eec, and lower than the minimum rate of excise duty on alcohol provided for in that directive, but not lower by more than 75% than the normal national rate of excise duty on alcohol. given the urgency of this measure, which is limited to six months and is designed to stimulate the economy of the outermost regions, i am in favour of approving this proposal.
in writing. - i know . council decision 2009/831/ec of 10 november 2009 authorises portugal to apply, until 31 december 2013, a reduced rate of excise duty to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores. portugal may apply to these products a rate of excise duty lower than the full rate of the duty applicable to alcohol laid down in article 3 of council directive 92/84/eec, and lower than the minimum rate of excise duty on alcohol provided for in that directive, but not lower by more than 75% than the normal national rate of excise duty on alcohol. on 28 june 2013, the commission adopted new guidelines on regional aid for the period 2014-2020. given that those guidelines enter into force on 1 july 2014, it appears justified to extend the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec for a period of six months, so that the expiry date of that decision coincides with the expiry date of the existing guidelines. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - article 349 tfeu provides for the possibility of introducing specific measures in favour of regions in the event of permanent disadvantages affecting the economic and social situation of the ors, such as their isolation and geographical remoteness from the mainland. in this regard, i am in favour of extending the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec and renewing the application of the reduced rate of excise duty on rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and on liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal for a decision is to extend the application of a reduced rate of excise duty on rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and on liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores. because of their status as an outermost region, madeira and the azores have the possibility of being granted specific measures to implement the european union rules, and i voted in favour of this same extension decision.
in writing. - this report approves the commission proposal authorizing portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty on rum and spirits produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and on spirits and liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores. portugal thus applies to these products a rate of excise duty lower than the full rate of the tax applicable to alcohol laid down in directive 92/84/eec, and lower than the minimum rate of excise duty on alcohol provided for in that directive, but not lower than the national rate by more than 75%. it is positive that the specificities of these regions are recognised in the directive, such as the small size, fragmented nature and low degree of mechanisation of agricultural holdings, the transport to the islands of certain raw materials and packaging materials that are not produced locally generate additional costs compared to the transport of the finished product alone. the transport and installation of equipment in these remote and island regions contribute to further increase the additional costs, and the producers concerned also bear additional costs usually borne by local economies, in particular the increase in labour costs and energy costs. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that decision 2004/162/ec sets out the reasons for the adoption of the specific measures, namely remoteness, insularity, small market size and low level of exports, topography, difficult climate, economic dependence on a small number of products and also one-off natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions or earthquakes. the remoteness of these regions and their dependence on air and sea transport, as well as on raw materials and energy, have a significant impact on production costs. the combination of all the disadvantages leads to an increase in the cost price of locally produced products. in the absence of specific measures, these products are thus unable to compete fairly with other regions that do not face the same challenges. the specific measures provided for in decision 2004/162/ec were therefore aimed at strengthening the local industry by improving its competitiveness and placing it on an equal competitive footing.
in writing. - council decision 2004/162/ec of 10 february 2004 adopted on the basis of article 299 (2) of the ec treaty authorises france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the charging of excise duty on the products listed in the annex which are produced locally in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. the decision includes an annex listing the products to which the tax exemptions and reductions apply, and stipulates that the application of these exemptions and reductions may not result in differences of more than 10, 20 or 30 percentage points, depending on the products. since this measure will take effect from 1 january 2014, i am in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to adapt council decision 2004/162/ec in order to make it applicable to mayonnaise. it also sets out for mayotte the lists of products for which france would be authorized to apply, within certain limits, exemptions or reductions from the tax known as octroi de mer to certain locally manufactured products. the proposal authorizes the application of a differentiated taxation to 59 products for which there is local production in mayotte.
in writing. - the european council, by its decision 2012/419/eu amending the status of mayotte with regard to the european union, decided that mayotte will, as from 1 january 2014, have the status of an outermost region within the meaning of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) instead of an overseas country and territory (oct) within the meaning of article 355 (2) tfeu. the above-mentioned european council decision added mayotte to the list of outermost regions listed in article 349 tfeu and therefore authorised the application of a differentiated tax system for 59 products produced locally in mayotte, france, for which the french authorities provided evidence that the additional costs incurred, as required by the commission, and proposing a maximum differential for each product limited to what was necessary to compensate for the reduced competitiveness and additional costs of local products. given the specificities of this region and article 349 tfeu, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - decision 2004/162/ec authorises france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the excise duty on the products listed in its annex which are produced locally in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. since mayotte has acquired the status of an outermost region within the meaning of article 349 tfeu as of 1 january 2014, instead of an overseas country or territory within the meaning of article 355 (2) of that treaty, it is necessary to include mayotte in the list of regions provided for in this decision.
in writing. - the decision, adopted in 2004, authorises france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the excise duty on products manufactured locally in the french outermost regions, as listed in the annex listing the products to which the exemptions and reductions apply, and stipulates that the application of these exemptions and reductions may not result in differences of more than 10, 20 or 30 percentage points, depending on the product. the adoption of these measures is justified by the remoteness of these regions and their dependence on air and sea transport, as well as on raw materials and energy, which have a significant impact on production costs. in addition, insularity, the small size of the market and the low level of exports, the difficult topography and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products and also occasional natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions or earthquakes constitute a set of disadvantages and specificities that lead to an increase in the cost price of locally produced products, so that, in the absence of specific measures, these products cannot compete with those from other regions. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the partnership and cooperation agreement includes the confirmation of essential values expressed in the charter of the united nations, the united nations universal declaration of human rights and other international treaties applicable to both parties. i would remind you that it also includes a commitment to the principles of democracy, good governance and the rule of law, and provisions for establishing or strengthening cooperation in areas such as human rights, trade and investment, energy, tourism, transport and infrastructure, marine conservation and fisheries, industrial policy and small and mediumsized enterprises, data protection and intellectual property rights. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy on the prevention of and fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against organised crime, corruption, money laundering, terrorism and the financing of terrorism.
in writing. - the agreement strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation through a wide range of policy areas, including trade, environment, energy, science and technology, and good governance, as well as tourism and culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime. as a portuguese citizen, a country with which indonesia has been at loggerheads for years over east timor's self-determination, i am particularly grateful to see the european union's rapprochement with that country and i hope that it will deepen and intensify. as the largest muslim country in the world and occupying a vast island region of geostrategic importance, i believe that indonesia should be treated with care by the european union and i support the holding of regular summits to discuss developments in bilateral relations and global issues of common interest.
in writing. - this comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement (cpa) between the eu and indonesia, the first such agreement concluded between the eu and asean countries, demonstrates the growing importance of the ties between the two parties and opens a new phase in bilateral relations, based on common principles such as equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the agreement strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation in a number of areas, including trade, the environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the agreement will be considered a positive example of intercultural/religious dialogue, given that indonesia is the third most populous country in asia and the largest muslim country in the world. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this interim report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, with the exception of the readmission issues, in which i highlight the emphasis placed on indonesia's ratification of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, and i join the call for the eu to provide support for the institutional and other reforms needed to comply with this convention and to improve the important maritime security in the region.
in writing. - in this interim report, the european parliament accepts the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, with the exception of matters relating to readmission. the agreement enhances political, sectoral and policy cooperation in a wide range of policy areas, including trade, environment, energy, science, technology, tourism, culture, migration, counter-terrorism, fight against corruption and organised crime and good governance. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the draft council decision proposes that the council conclude a framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, on the one hand, and indonesia, on the other, and that parliament give its consent to its conclusion. i agree with this celebration and hope that this comprehensive framework partnership agreement will bring a significant improvement in the relationship between the european union and indonesia and strengthen contacts between the partners. it is not too much to recall that the indonesian language is permeated with many european words, including portuguese, which indicate a common history of subsequent encounters that it is urgent to recover and make known to the new generations.
in writing. - this comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement (cpa) between the eu and indonesia, the first such agreement concluded between the eu and asean countries, demonstrates the growing importance of the ties between the two parties and opens a new phase in bilateral relations, based on common principles such as equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the agreement strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation in a number of areas, including trade, the environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the conclusion of the gpa is in line with the eu's objective of creating a comprehensive and coherent political and economic framework for relations between the union and the asean countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - having no objections, i voted in favour of this recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, with the exception of matters relating to readmission, approving the said agreement.
in writing. - having regard to the draft comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, which strengthens political, sectoral and policy cooperation in a wide range of policy areas, including trade, environment, energy, science, technology, tourism, culture, migration, the fight against terrorism, the fight against corruption and organised crime and good governance, i voted in favour of the european parliament's position approving it.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european union and indonesia signed a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (cfa) in 2009, signed by the european community and the republic of indonesia, but the ratification process by the member states of the european union is currently pending. the readmission clause is set out in article 34 (3) of the pca and constitutes an essential aspect of cooperation with indonesia. indonesia is the first asean country to sign a readmission agreement with the eu, with a view to preventing and controlling irregular immigration in accordance with international obligations and the principle of non-refoulement. i believe that readmission agreements are an essential instrument for ensuring the effective management of migration flows and, in this sense, combating irregular migration.
in writing. - i know . the eu-indonesia partnership and cooperation agreement, signed in 2009, was the first such agreement concluded between the eu and asean countries, demonstrating the increasingly close ties between the two sides and ushering in a new phase of bilateral relations based on common principles such as equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the inclusion of readmission-related issues in the framework agreement with indonesia will facilitate future negotiations on a readmission agreement with indonesia. i supported this inclusion, hoping that it could serve as an impetus to accelerate the process leading to the conclusion of a readmission agreement, in order to create a transparent and fair framework and rules for the return of irregular migrants to their country of origin, with full respect for the principle of non-refoulement. there should also be greater transparency as regards the way in which these agreements are being implemented, in particular as regards the way in which human rights safeguards have been regulated and applied in order to protect the fundamental rights of persons subject to readmission.
in writing. - as the rapporteur acknowledges, the readmission clause in article 34 (3) of the partnership and cooperation agreement is an essential aspect of cooperation with indonesia. it is indeed noteworthy that indonesia is the first asean country to sign a partnership and cooperation agreement with the union which includes a readmission agreement clause to prevent and control irregular immigration in accordance with international obligations and the principle of non-refoulement. i agree with the interpretation that readmission agreements can be an essential instrument to ensure the effective management of migration flows and, in this sense, to combat irregular migration.
in writing. - i know . this eu-indonesia comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement (cpa), the first such agreement concluded between the eu and asean countries, demonstrates the growing importance of the ties between the two parties and opens a new phase in bilateral relations, based on common principles such as equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the agreement strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation in a number of areas, including trade, the environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the agreement will be considered a positive example of intercultural/religious dialogue, given that indonesia is the third most populous country in asia and the largest muslim country in the world. the conclusion of the gpa is in line with the eu's objective of creating a comprehensive and coherent political and economic framework for relations between the union and the asean countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which considers that readmission agreements can provide a framework and a set of transparent and fair rules for the return of irregular migrants to their country of origin, i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament endorses the issues relating to readmission under the comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part.
in writing. - having regard to the draft comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, which strengthens political, sectoral and policy cooperation in a wide range of policy areas, including trade, environment, energy, science, technology, tourism, culture, migration, the fight against terrorism, the fight against corruption and organised crime and good governance, i voted in favour of the european parliament's position approving it.
in writing. - in 2009, the european union and indonesia signed a comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation (cpa) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, which is currently awaiting the completion of the european union's ratification process. this report approves the conclusion of the agreement, but the eu does not shy away from interfering in the internal affairs of other countries and trying to teach indonesia lessons - in this case, in detail - in the various areas of indonesian policy, in order to become the eu's 'good pupil', which will in fact accentuate the power of monopolies, to the detriment of small and mediumsized enterprises, family farming, small-scale fishing and the population in general. the readmission clause is indicated in article 34 (3) of the agreement which stipulates identifying their national claims and readmitting nationals illegally present in the territory, i.e. a clause for the expulsion of these migrants who have not yet been regularised, an aspect on which we cannot agree.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the readmission agreement is important in that it contributes to reducing illegal immigration into the european union area originating in turkey. at the same time, the agreement can contribute to the fight against organised crime, in particular human trafficking, and significantly ease the pressure on greece and, consequently, on the european union. i believe that since the european union has responded to turkey's request with a visa action plan, turkey should honour its commitment and sign the agreement without delay. i think it is not unacceptable that turkey is delaying the ratification of the readmission agreement as a way of putting pressure on the european union to introduce concrete visa improvements for turkish citizens. we cannot accept that illegal immigration, carried out in large numbers through greece from turkey, should be used as a tool to pressure and manipulate the european union. it must also be noted that, in general, and on the basis of this attitude, turkey does not accept or respect the integrity of the european union.
in writing. - the european commission and turkey were finally able to reach an agreement in 2012 on the text of this readmission agreement after eight years of negotiations. this agreement provides for obligations to readmit persons residing without authorisation on a strictly reciprocal basis, and defines technical and procedural criteria for such readmission. it is important to take into account that a high number of irregular migrants enter the eu territory through turkey, which is the main transit country for illegal immigration into the union, contributing to the enormous migratory pressure on greece. it is therefore essential to strengthen cooperation with turkey in the areas of migration management, the fight against trafficking in human beings and border control. this agreement should also have an impact on the process of gradual visa liberalisation in the long term and will constitute an important step forward on the roadmap towards a visa-free regime.
in writing. - i know . since turkey is the main land route for illegal immigration to the european union, it is not only understandable but also natural that the two countries have tried to agree on a way of managing and regulating this phenomenon. i am aware that there are situations of particular gravity which can lead to actual requests for political asylum, but i believe that an immigration policy must reject the extremes of a stronghold europe and a europe open to all. it is therefore necessary to distinguish asylum from immigration and, in this case, to separate legal from illegal. this instrument, which we support, will seek to contribute to giving operational substance to these distinctions and thus to allow better conditions for the existence of effective rigour in the admission of immigrants and humanity in their reception. turkey, like the union, has to fulfil its part of the commitment. i hope that both sides will rise to the important challenge that lies before them.
in writing. - the land route to greece via turkey is currently the most frequently used route by migrants and refugees from all over the world to enter the european union. turkey is therefore the main transit country for illegal immigration into the european union. in order to facilitate the return of irregular migrants to the european union, the european union and turkey began negotiations on a readmission agreement in november 2002. the parties undertake to readmit their nationals and, where appropriate, third-country nationals without residence permits and stateless persons. at the same time, technical and procedural criteria for readmission are also defined. the readmission agreement represents an important contribution to reducing illegal immigration into the european union from the territory of turkey. at the same time, the agreement can contribute to the fight against organised crime, in particular human trafficking, and significantly ease the pressure on greece and, consequently, on the european union. however, for various reasons, not always acceptable, turkey has been delaying the signing of this agreement. we must make it clear to turkey that this agreement is essential to combat illegal immigration into the eu.
in writing. - agreeing with the view that cooperation with the european union should be strengthened in the areas of containing migratory flows, combating trafficking in human beings and border controls, and ensuring effective cooperation between turkey and all the member states in the field of justice and home affairs policies, i voted in favour of this report, which contains measures to this end.
in writing. - turkey is currently the main transit country for illegal immigration in the european union, with the land route to greece being the most frequently used by migrants. the readmission agreement is designed to facilitate the return of irregular migrants to the european union, where the parties undertake to readmit their nationals. it is an important contribution to reducing illegal immigration in the eu and can also contribute to the fight against organised crime, with particular attention to trafficking in human beings. however, turkey has refused to fulfil its obligations and fully implement the additional protocol to the eu-turkey association agreement, showing that it is not yet ready to recognise the republic of cyprus as an independent state - a demonstration of non-recognition of the eu and its integrity, hampering accession negotiations. although there is still a long way to go, this agreement is an important milestone in the process of rapprochement between the eu and turkey, which is why i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the main objective of this eu-turkey readmission agreement is to establish procedures for the rapid and orderly readmission - read expulsion of immigrants, seen here as illegal - for having entered or resided in the territory of the other party in an irregular manner. the rapporteur sees this agreement as a significant contribution to reducing illegal migration and cross-border crime and trafficking in human beings into the eu through turkish territory. however, it is nothing more than a shameful agreement on discrimination, selective labour, a basic instrument in the process of exploiting migrant workers, against the human rights of asylum seekers.
in writing. - i know . the decision to extend the derogations to article 146 is a source of discomfort for those who defend multilingualism and the right of citizens of the member states to have access to documents issued by the european union in their own language. this derogation constitutes a distortion of that rule and calls into question the equality of languages which, notwithstanding the rules on working languages, should apply in the union. however, in practice there are two languages - maltese and irish - which do not seem to have the human resources to provide interpretation. that implies that, even if unwillingly, there is no alternative but to extend the derogations contained in rule 146 of the rules of procedure.
in writing. - for various reasons it is not possible to provide interpretation for certain official languages during the end of the seventh and the beginning of the eighth parliamentary term, i am in favour of using the prerogative of extending the derogation to rule 147 of parliament's rules of procedure until the end of the eighth parliamentary term.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal for a decision is to extend rule 147 of parliament's rules of procedure until the end of the eighth parliamentary term. under rule 146, all parliament documents must be written in the official languages and all members have the right to address parliament in the official language of their choice, with interpretation for the other official languages, although under rule 147 derogations from the previous article are allowed until the end of the seventh parliamentary term, when there are not enough linguists for an official language. despite all the efforts made to this end, it is not to be expected that the interpretation capacities (translators and legal linguists) in the irish, maltese and croatian languages will be sufficient to enable a full interpretation service in these languages to be provided as early as the beginning of the eighth parliamentary term, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision extending article 147 until the end of the eighth parliamentary term. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the committee on constitutional affairs has approved the report by carlo casini on the amendment of rule 166 of parliament's rules of procedure on the final vote and rule 195 (3) on the vote in committee. i am of the opinion of the committee that rule 166 should be applied when deciding on the basis of a report and rule 195 (3) where voting in committee is by roll-call vote.
in writing. - i believe that citizens should have the right to know how the members they elect vote and that when they do so, they should be aware of the healthy scrutiny to which the voters may subject them. the generalization of roll-call voting in the final vote and its increase in committee voting are therefore to be welcomed. the portuguese people say that he who does not have to, does not fear. and those who are not afraid should be able to take responsibility and put their signatures on the votes in which they take part. the only perplexity i have with these amendments is that they refer to the very high volume of votes that take place in the european parliament, particularly in the plenary, and that are not always subject to careful scrutiny by members who feel the need to rely on the recommendations for voting by their respective groups. perhaps this increase in individual responsibility would recommend a reduction in the number of votes and an effective reduction in the matters, many of them eminently technical, on which parliament is called upon to give its opinion.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation amending the regulation to provide that any final vote on a report drawn up by parliament shall be by roll-call vote using the electronic voting system. this amendment will strengthen transparency and, consequently, the democratic accountability of members to the electorate and the citizens. voters have a right to know how their elected representatives voted in order to keep them accountable.
mr president, just yesterday we had workers from all over europe outside parliament asking that this parliament should vote against the fourth railway package. i joined those workers and voted against it, but unfortunately this house ended up passing it. the fourth rail package is a disaster. the first three have already had disastrous consequences for public services, working conditions and wages in the sector, but this fourth package opens the way to further liberalisation. it provides for the creation of a genuine wall between infrastructure management and rail transport activities and for the reduction of investment in the medium and long term, as a result of a management that is now exclusively profit-oriented. this proposal is therefore an attack on the public service and a tribute to job insecurity, subcontracting, the decline in the quality of service and the abandonment of less profitable lines.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that in the last decade there have been three 'railway legislative packages' aimed at progressively opening up national markets and making the railway more competitive and interoperable. however, the modal share of rail transport in total intra-eu transport has remained modest, and many technical barriers remain. the fourth railway package aims to address the obstacles to the effectiveness of railway markets, in order to improve the performance of the sector and create a single european railway area. the commission notes that the obstacles still existing relate primarily to market access for national passenger services, which limit the development of the sector and create disparities between member states which have already opened their markets and those which have not yet done so. a second set of problems concerns governance issues for infrastructure managers. given their nature as natural monopolies, infrastructure managers do not always meet the needs of the market and its users, thus affecting the performance of the sector as a whole.
in writing. - the need to establish a single european railway area is part of the decline in rail transport, and aims to reverse this trend and promote this means of transport of people and goods which is faster, safer and less polluting than those using fossil fuels, in particular air transport. member states should closely monitor the implementation of this european railway area and promote the use of this means of transport internally, as well as enhance connectivity between railway lines in the various member states. a europe with a single railway area will tend to be more environmentally friendly and better supplied with goods and services.
in writing. - in the last decade, three railway legislative packages have aimed at progressively opening up national markets and making the railway more competitive and interoperable. however, the modal share of rail transport in total intra-eu transport has remained modest, and many technical barriers remain. the fourth railway package aims to address the obstacles to the effectiveness of railway markets, in order to improve the performance of the sector and create a single european railway area. a single railway area is very important for the development of the internal market, which in turn will contribute to economic growth and job creation. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the el khadraoui legislative report on the single european railway area (as well as the other reports which constitute the so-called fourth railway package) because the directive in question is a step forward in opening up rail transport to the market and in creating a european railway area without internal borders, in the interests of the quality and competitiveness of rail transport services. the truth is that we cannot speak of a genuine european single market without a complete integration of rail networks and services, both goods and passengers. this requires three fundamental conditions: interoperability of national networks; competition in the transport service (without prejudice to public service obligations); independent management of the networks and non-discriminatory access to infrastructure. it is only regrettable that, under pressure from some large countries (such as germany, france and italy), the reform does not go as far as necessary to overcome the established interests of the incumbent railway companies.
in the case of the railway infrastructure, the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the infrastructure. however, it lacks some clarity and detail. the european parliament therefore proposed some additions and clarifications concerning the cooperation and involvement of the national authorities responsible for safety in the european railway area. i voted in favour of this report because it is a measure which will benefit everyone.
in writing. - this report on the european railway area is included in the fourth railway package, which includes five other reports. the discussion on the creation of a single railway area in europe, which would link lisbon to tallinn, is still far from being completed. the debate in this report focused on unbundling, which is the complete separation between the infrastructure manager and the operators. a governance problem that shows that a one size fits all approach cannot continue to be the motto of the rail strategy. the portuguese case is a good example of this separation already being achieved, where transparency and the separation of financial flows are a reality. but on the other hand, there is no clear investment policy. another important element is the opening up of new players, which will give a new impetus to this sector. i would like to stress the importance of exempting small and medium-sized railways from these regulations, if they are applied to the tua line, with well-defined criteria.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that rail passenger transport represents, in passenger kilometres, about 7% of passenger transport and that this total share should be increased. investments in these sustainable guided systems can benefit not only the environment and the economy, but also promote growth and jobs. moreover, the objective set out in the proposal, which is to increase the number of users of public guided systems, can only be achieved if rail passenger transport improves its efficiency at european level. the market for international public passenger rail transport has been open since 1 january 2010, however the market for national passenger transport services remains very closed in most member states. like other passenger transport services, such as buses, light rail and the underground, public passenger rail transport cannot, in most cases, be provided on a commercial basis. instead, it should be provided on the basis of public service contracts. the compensation for public service obligations is part of these service contracts.
in writing. - the proposal we are voting on here is essentially about rail passenger transport. despite positive developments in some member states, it still needs to become more efficient in terms of passenger numbers, quality of services, infrastructure and tickets. in many member states, costs to the state are still high compared to the quality of services and barriers to entry for new providers are often insurmountable. i believe that these problems can be solved by stronger competition in terms of tendering, which is part of the overall framework of the fourth railway package. the central element of the commission's proposal is therefore to abolish the possibility of direct award of contracts for rail passenger transport.
in writing. - rail passenger transport accounts for about 7% of passenger transport in passenger kilometres and this total share should be increased. investments in these sustainable guided systems can benefit not only the environment and the economy, but also promote growth and jobs. there is a need for efficiency improvements in rail passenger transport. moreover, the objective set out in the motion for a resolution on the european parliament's white paper of increasing the number of users of public guided systems can only be achieved if rail passenger transport improves its efficiency at european level. the growth of public guided passenger traffic is essential for economic growth and job creation. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - rail passenger transport accounts for about 7% of passenger transport in passenger kilometres and this total share should be increased. investments in these sustainable guided systems can benefit not only the environment and the economy, but also promote growth and jobs. there is a need for efficiency improvements in rail passenger transport. moreover, the objective set out in the motion for a resolution on the european parliament's white paper of increasing the number of users of public guided systems can only be achieved if rail passenger transport improves its efficiency at european level. in view of the proposals contained in this document which are in line with these objectives, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this directive aims at opening up domestic rail passenger services, as is already the case in the crossborder market. the objective is always the same: to open the market to new entrants and thereby create an attractive climate. however, i think it is important to take account of the size of the market in each country and the legal basis for the formalisation of contracts. the commission, in order to avoid direct contracts, since it considers that they are forms of hiring established operators, intends to eliminate this legal form by setting a time limit until 2022. i'm concerned about this elimination. i do think that stricter and more efficient criteria should be established. i therefore voted in favour of a transitional period until 2025 and measures to support the sector in this transition. the barriers to entry for new operators are mainly technical and administrative. for this reason i believe that operators must be independent and regulators transparent, as is already the case in portugal.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that rail transport in europe today covers more than 8 000 million journeys a year and carries 10% of goods, which represents 13 000 million euro in revenue and a turnover of 73 000 million and 800 000 jobs. in its white paper entitled roadmap for a single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system, the european commission proposes that by 2050 more than half of the medium-distance transport of passengers and goods in the european union will be carried by rail. in addition to offering more choice to consumers and opportunities for businesses, this target will be key to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% by the year 2050, based on 1990 levels. the comparison between the current situation and the targets reflects the growth potential of a sector where european manufacturers are world leaders in technology, especially in the areas of safety and high speed.
in writing. - rail transport in europe today covers more than 8 billion journeys a year and transports 10% of goods, representing 13 billion euros in revenue and 800 000 jobs. in the white paper on this subject, the european commission proposes that by 2050 more than half of the eu's medium-distance passenger and freight transport should be carried by rail. in addition to offering more choice to consumers and opportunities for businesses, this target will be key to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% by 2050. the commission proposal aims to reduce by 20% the time it takes for a new company to enter the market and by the same percentage the deadlines and costs incurred by manufacturers in certifying rolling stock. the eur 500 million to be released for this purpose over the next five years should reinforce the leadership of the european rail industry on world markets.
in the case of the railways, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway system is not affected by the consequences of the accident. in its white paper entitled roadmap for a single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system, the european commission proposes that more than half of the eu's medium-distance passenger and freight transport should be carried by rail by 2050. in addition to offering more choice to consumers and opportunities for businesses, this target will be key to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% by the year 2050, taking 1990 as a benchmark. the comparison between the current situation and the targets reflects the growth potential of a sector where european manufacturers are world leaders in technology, especially in the areas of safety and high speed. achieving these objectives will be key to ensuring the sustainability of the internal market and to ensuring job creation. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the case of the railways, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway system is not affected by the consequences of the accident. in its white paper entitled roadmap for a single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system, the european commission proposes that more than half of the eu's medium-distance passenger and freight transport should be carried by rail by 2050. in addition to offering more choice to consumers and opportunities for businesses, this target will be key to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% by the year 2050, taking 1990 as a benchmark. the comparison between the current situation and the targets reflects the growth potential of a sector where european manufacturers are world leaders in technology, especially in the areas of safety and high speed. in view of the above and taking into account the measures to pursue these objectives, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive, together with the safety directive and the directive on the european union agency for railways, are considered the technical pillars of this package. the aim is to remove administrative and technical barriers. the agency will thus be the one-stop shop, eliminating the need to apply for authorisations and certifications in the 28 member states. the interoperability of rolling stock, locomotives and other equipment is essential for the creation of a single european area. the single register will unlock administrative procedures which are time-consuming and too costly. however, this simplification should not lead to a reduction in safety conditions. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environment. the european agency may also delegate certain tasks to its counterparts.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that rail is already the safest mode of transport in the european union (eu); in recent decades, there have been significant improvements in railway safety performance. although railway performance has increased from about 200 billion passengers in 1970 to more than 300 billion today, the average annual number of deaths in passenger trains has decreased from about 400 in the early 1970s to less than 100 today. however, although rail accidents are rare, they can have disastrous consequences in terms of human lives, the environment and confidence in rail transport as the safest means of transport. in addition to significant individual suffering, these accidents represent a heavy economic burden on society as a whole. as such, it is essential to strengthen railway safety in the union, which will contribute to a modal shift in its favour.
in writing. - i am pleased to have voted in favour of this report because i believe that the railway environment in the union has undergone profound changes, triggered in particular by the three european union railway packages adopted since the early 1990s. the gradual creation of the single european railway area is characterised by a multiplication of actors, with greater use of subcontracted companies and more frequent market entries. in this context of increased complexity, railway safety depends decisively on the interaction between all stakeholders, including railway undertakings, infrastructure managers and safety authorities and the railway sector. safety legislation should take account of these developments and provide appropriate information, procedures and management and emergency tools.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. although railway performance has increased from around 200 billion passengers/km in 1970 to over 300 billion today, the average annual number of deaths in passenger trains has decreased from around 400 in the early 1970s to less than 100 today. however, although rail accidents rarely occur, when they do, they have disastrous consequences in terms of human lives and economic burdens on society at large. as such, it is essential to strengthen railway safety in the union, which will further contribute to a modal shift in its favour.
in the european union, rail transport is already the safest mode of transport. in recent decades, there have been significant improvements in railway safety performance. although railway performance has increased from around 200 billion passengers/km in 1970 to over 300 billion today, the average annual number of deaths in passenger trains has decreased from around 400 in the early 1970s to less than 100 today. however, although rail accidents are rare, they can have disastrous consequences in terms of human lives, the environment and the reputation of rail transport as the safest means of transport. in addition to significant individual suffering, these accidents represent a heavy economic burden on society as a whole. as such, it is essential to strengthen railway safety in the union, which will further contribute to a modal shift in its favour. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the case of the railways, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the railways is not compromised. in fact, significant improvements in railway safety performance have been recorded over the past decades. although railway performance has increased from around 200 billion passengers/km in 1970 to over 300 billion today, the average annual number of deaths in passenger trains has decreased from around 400 in the early 1970s to less than 100 today. these numbers are good. however, there are improvements to be made, here proposals, which i agree with and which deserve my vote in favour.
in writing. - this proposal to amend directive 2004/49/ec aims to take account of the latest developments in the industry, in particular with regard to information, the management of procedures and emergency rules. the harmonization of safety rules, safety certificates for operators, and the rules of the national agencies and the european agency are the key elements of this report. the aim is that after the transition period of competence to the european agency, the main task of the agency will be to harmonise certification, including safety certificates, and authorisation within the union. the agency should function as the main coordinator of all national networks in order to have a single technical network. i would, however, like to stress that this substantial change in responsibilities must not create duplication of work and at the same time must take account of the language of the countries concerned. the agency's human and financial capabilities need to be taken into account in order to fulfil its new tasks.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european union's railway market has undergone radical changes over the last decade, introduced gradually by three railway legislative packages, designed to open up national markets and make rail transport more competitive and interoperable at eu level, while maintaining a high level of safety. however, the share of rail in the intra-eu transport network has remained low. despite these three legislative packages, the european railway sector still faces problems such as barriers to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly sector. there is currently a complex and different set of national rules, which contributes to opaque procedures and standards.
in writing. - seven years after its creation, the era is now fully operational and plays an important role in the harmonisation of national interoperability and safety requirements and their gradual replacement by technical specifications and common safety objectives and methods. in order to improve the current highly decentralised system, where the roles of the various actors are sometimes unclear, and to ensure a european dimension for rail transport services, the commission proposed that the era be given a number of executive functions to strengthen its capacity and competence so that it can act as a one-stop shop.
in writing. - this regulation is an element of the fourth railway package, focusing on the removal of remaining administrative and technical barriers, including establishing a common approach to safety and interoperability standards, in order to expand economies of scale for railway undertakings across the eu, reduce administrative costs and speed up administrative procedures, and prevent disguised discrimination, through a european union railway agency (era). it is intended to replace the basic regulation and to confer important new tasks on the agency, making it a true european railway authority in the fields of interoperability and safety. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - seven years after its creation, the european railway agency is now fully operational and plays an important role in harmonising national interoperability and safety requirements and gradually replacing them with technical specifications and common safety objectives and methods. in order to improve the current highly decentralised system, where the roles of the various players are sometimes unclear, and in addition to ensuring a european dimension for rail transport services, the commission proposed that the era be given a number of other executive functions. the agency would issue several authorisations and certifications currently issued by the national safety authorities (nsas) without replacing them. era would continue to draw on the staff and expertise of nsas for the performance of some relevant activities in the member states, which would be carried out at the request of the agency, under its direction and supervision. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the railway sector in the community's transport policy. the extension of its powers is linked to the need to cooperate more closely with the national authorities of the member states on an equal footing. the aim is for era to establish a common approach in terms of security and interoperability, to reduce administrative costs and, at the same time, to speed up certification and authorisation procedures, while also avoiding discriminatory behaviour towards operators from other countries, thus establishing a criterion of reciprocity. since the obstacles to the construction of a single railway area are mainly technical and administrative, i voted in favour of this report.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the railway sector in the framework of the european union's railway policy. the proposal introduces a set of new powers for the era with regard to eu harmonised standards in safety certification. the pernicious idea of making era a single european railway point of sale with exclusive powers to issue safety certificates and vehicle authorisations will have been watered down. however, it is stated that in order for railway undertakings to be able to provide transport services throughout europe, they must be guaranteed authorisation and certification procedures, in which the era functions as a single, integrated point of sale. this is clearly in the interests of creating a more competitive and dynamic railway market. they're pieces of a puzzle that always lead to the same end, so we can't agree.
in writing. - i approve this report considering that before deciding to repeal the regulation it is necessary to assess the impact on the railway sector of the provisions of the new directive, which entered into force in november 2012. as the commission states, the current tnmm is discriminatory, since it offers only the possibility of limited compensation to 36 specific companies. according to the number of railway licences, there are more than 1000 railway undertakings active in the european union. therefore, keeping the regulation in force as it stands is not an option as it would allow only a limited number of railway undertakings to claim such compensation in accordance with their national rules and legislative frameworks on pension and insurance schemes.
in the context of the fourth railway package, the commission proposes to repeal council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. this regulation authorises member states to compensate railway undertakings for charges which undertakings in other modes of transport do not have to bear for various reasons. however, i accompany a rapporteur on his proposal to take this decision until 2019.
in writing. - in the context of the fourth railway package, the commission proposes to repeal council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. this regulation allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for charges which undertakings in other modes of transport do not have to bear for various reasons. these obligations may relate, for example, to special payments in the event of accidents at work which a railway undertaking is obliged to make but which in the case of other modes of transport are borne by the state, to pensions for railway workers who normally retire earlier because of certain arduous work, or to payments for costs incurred in level crossings. the repeal of this regulation will benefit the railway sector by making it more transparent. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to repeal the regulation, and therefore the text of the regulation cannot be amended. whereas in all previous railway packages, proposed by the european commission and subsequently adopted and transposed by the member states, the objective was to extend the rights and obligations to all new companies in the railway sector and thus open up the railway market. in this case the commission proposes to address the potential discrimination between railway undertakings not by means of an appropriate recasting, as in the case of other legislative texts, but by means of a direct deletion of the act, i.e. by repealing the regulation. in the absence of agreement in the european parliament, i am voting to postpone the decision on repeal and to ask the commission, after further examination, to amend the existing regulation and adapt it to the current legal framework.
in writing. - this report aims to adapt regulation (eec) no 1192/69 since it no longer reflects the reality of the different railway systems in the member states. in addition to the fact that the regulation does not keep pace with the current reality of railways, only four member states have used it and only 3 payments have been made in the 15 existing categories. the regulation itself, with the existence of a list of companies that could be compensated, leads to a discrimination between these and those excluded from the same list. for the reasons stated above, i am in favour of the proposal put forward by the european commission.
in writing. - this regulation repeals a regulation on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the proposed amendments aim to facilitate concession processes by reducing the risk for private concessionaires, as changes in national legislative frameworks are not reflected in concession values. as national legislative frameworks differ from one state to another, this amendment is essentially aimed at ensuring that multinational companies can acquire concessions in any state without risk. this regulation was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market. it is recognised that in the context of public rail systems, funding is insufficient in many member states, but now, as it is a matter of preparing the conditions for multinationals in the sector, adequate funding is already provided for. the benefits in question are those resulting from the national legislative frameworks concerning specific medical treatment, special payments for accidents at work, additional rest days, early retirement pensions for hard work, insurance premiums, and costs of level crossing. at the very least, there should be a clear guarantee that once the state funds are transferred to private companies, they actually reach the workers.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, at a time when the forecasts point to a strong growth in air traffic up to 2030, it will be desirable to strengthen preventive aviation safety measures. this would avoid a scenario whereby the increase in air traffic would increase the risk of accidents. while it is true that the eu currently has effective air accident investigation systems, it is also true that considerable efforts are needed to gather and analyse incidents proactively. furthermore, given that this whole proactive system is based on the spontaneous reporting of occurrences by aviation workers, it is therefore essential to ensure the creation of an environment of trust, guided by the so-called fair culture, avoiding retaliation or any other penalty for workers who decide to collaborate with information that contributes to safer aviation for all.
in writing. - given that civil aviation has over the years experienced a significant increase in the number of flights and passengers - albeit associated with a decrease in air accidents and incidents - safety must remain, today and always, a key concern. the enhancement of safety will only be possible with a system capable of clearly identifying potential failures and of rapidly adopting preventive and corrective measures. given that this whole proactive system is based on the spontaneous reporting of occurrences by aviation workers, it is essential to ensure that an environment of trust is created, guided by the so-called 'fair culture', as is intended here.
in writing. - the average annual fatality rate in the european union for scheduled passenger air transport operations has remained relatively stable in recent years. according to forecasts of air traffic growth for the next decades, the number of flights will almost double by 2030. therefore, with a stable fatality rate, an increase in accident rates is to be expected as a consequence of the constant growth of traffic volumes. the main objective of the initiative is to contribute to the reduction of aircraft accidents and associated fatalities by improving existing systems, both at national and european level, by taking advantage of civil aviation incidents to correct identified safety deficiencies and prevent their recurrence. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the light of the forecasts for strong growth in air traffic by 2030, it is appropriate to strengthen preventive aviation safety measures in order to avoid a scenario in which the number of air accidents follows the trend of traffic growth. in this sense, the improvement of safety will only be possible with a system capable of clearly identifying potential failures and of rapidly adopting preventive and corrective measures, which are proposed here and which deserve my support, which is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report aims to create a more uniform system in the union, where it is possible to create a culture of prevention and correction, in the proactive collection and analysis of occurrences. since the forecast of increased flight numbers is already a reality, it is necessary that corrective actions are part of the company culture and that the workers themselves are not afraid to report them. the protection and anonymisation of data will therefore be an important part of this regulation. in order to ensure such coordination, the european aviation safety agency will take on new tasks. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting with the commission's proposal to introduce a requirement to equip vehicles with an on-board ecall system, presented together with the proposal for the deployment of the interoperable automatic emergency call service (ecall) at european union level. once adopted, these two proposals will complete the regulatory framework for ecall, in order to ensure that all new passenger car and light commercial vehicle models will be equipped with the ecall 112 service from october 2015. in addition, the necessary infrastructure for the proper reception and handling of ecalls in emergency call centres will also be established. those measures enable and ensure the compatibility, interoperability and continuity of the union-wide ecall service.
in writing. - this report aims to ensure that from october 2015 all new models of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will be equipped with the ecall 112 service. the ecall should be a free public emergency call service which can be used by any driver anywhere in europe, regardless of the make of the vehicle. all vehicles shall be equipped with this system and it shall be available at all times, at least as a backup. in addition, consumers should be provided with clear information on the differences between the on-board ecall system and compatible third party emergency systems and should be able to opt for the eu-wide ecall service at any time. it is important to ensure that the mandatory introduction of the on-board ecall system is based on on-board equipment integrated into the vehicle and not on portable devices (such as mobile phones), as these may be removed or may simply not be activated by forgetfulness. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the introduction of the eu-wide interoperable automatic emergency call service (ecall) - the ecall system - which automatically calls the emergency services (112) in the event of a serious accident, will be of service to all of us, drivers and passengers of light vehicles. in order to protect personal data of each individual, manufacturers shall ensure that vehicles equipped with the ecall in-vehicle system are not traceable and are not subject to a constant location in their pre-emergency state of operation of the service. i am sure that this system will save lives all over europe, which is why i am in favour of it.
in writing. - the ecall system, which automatically calls emergency services in the event of a major accident, should be operational in all new passenger car and light commercial vehicle models from october 2015. this technology would call 112 to alert emergency services, allowing for faster assistance and reducing the number of deaths and serious injuries on european roads. it is now up to the automobile industry to put in place the necessary mechanisms to achieve this.
in writing. - the eu is deeply committed to reducing the number of accidents and mitigating the consequences of accidents when they occur. when fully operational across europe and available to all drivers, ecall will make a significant contribution to achieving these objectives. its greatest advantage will be the reduction in the number of deaths and the severity of injuries caused by road accidents, due to the faster arrival of emergency services at the scene of the accident. in this context, i voted in favour of this report on the type-approval requirements for the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive aims to ensure that from october 2015 all new passenger and light commercial vehicles are equipped with the ecall 112 service. the european commission presented a study concluding that in 2012 some 28 000 people died and some 1,5 million were injured in accidents on union roads. for these reasons, it is necessary that aid should arrive as soon as possible. the ecall should automatically dial 112 in an emergency, but there will also be the possibility of manual calling. a proposal that was initially heavily criticised, but which above all aims to ensure that more lives are saved on the roads, through a free and interoperable service throughout the european union.
in writing. - there is no discussion here of the numbers of road accidents and the need for urgent measures to reduce them. however, under the pretext of increasing road safety, it is intended to create a multi-million dollar business for multinationals. on the one hand, the creation of this business (ecall) infringes the sovereignty of the member states, because it prevents national companies from being able to provide this system and imposes the obligation to implement ecall by 2015, entailing a large public investment for the implementation of a service that will be granted to private parties. on the other hand, it clashes with the principle of data privacy, which is now in the possession of the multinational concession holders. we regret that the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl have been rejected. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to decide on the implementation of the system and that it should be linked to the current 112 system rather than to private companies. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission's proposal for a recast is a good starting point. insurance products are exceptionally complicated for consumers who do not deal regularly with contracts. insurance plays an important role at a time when consumers are in a situation of greater vulnerability and need and there is a sense of trust in mediators who are expected to follow clear and fair standards. it is therefore for the european legislators to ensure that the shortcomings of dms i, which have since been revealed as a result of the global financial crisis, are addressed and that the best interests of consumers are safeguarded.
in writing. - the european commission's aim with its proposal is to promote a recast of the insurance mediation directive (imd) in order to protect consumers and ensure a high level of competition between insurance mediators in the eu. insurance plays an important role when consumers are in a situation of greater vulnerability and need and should be properly regulated and follow clear and comprehensive standards. it is up to european legislators to ensure that the shortcomings of the insurance mediation directive i are addressed, in particular those discovered as a result of the financial crisis. the main innovations of the new legislation include the expansion of the scope to all distribution channels, regulation of the start-up and provision of these services, and their supervision. it is important to act on issues relating to conflicts of interest, harmonisation of the development of activities, and the relationship and provision of information to consumers, which must be clear and complete. it also lays the foundations for strengthening a genuine european insurance brokerage market and regulating cross-border operations. i voted in favour of this report because it makes a clear contribution to the provision of more reliable insurance services for the benefit of the european citizen.
in writing. - the aim of this text is to ensure greater harmonisation of the rules on insurance mediation in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr werner langen, on all his work, particularly in the field of consumer protection.
in writing. - the commission's main objective with its proposal is to promote a recast of the insurance mediation directive (imd) in order to protect consumers and ensure a high level of competition between insurance mediators in the european union. insurance plays an important role when consumers are in a situation of increased vulnerability and need. since the consumer eventually has to rely on these intermediaries, they should be properly regulated and follow clear and comprehensive rules. it is therefore up to european legislators to ensure that weaknesses in dms i, in particular those discovered as a result of the global financial crisis, are addressed. the main innovations of the new legislation include the expansion of the scope to all distribution channels, the regulation of the start-up and provision of these services, and their supervision. it also acts on issues of conflict of interest, harmonisation of business development and the provision of information to consumers (which must be clear and complete). it also lays the foundations for strengthening a genuine european insurance brokerage market and regulating cross-border operations. i shall vote in favour of this report because it makes a clear contribution to the provision of more reliable insurance services and is clearly to the benefit of the european citizen.
in writing. - this directive covers insurance mediation and regulates the practice of selling products such as car insurance and home insurance. insurance sales should be accompanied by professional advice so that consumers are better informed about the status of the person selling them such products. recent surveys show that over 70 percent of insurance products are sold without proper advice. the aim of this proposal is to improve consumer protection in insurance by establishing common rules for all sales of these products in the eu. the document includes rules on general information to be provided by the mediator or the insurance company, advice and conflicts of interest. the adoption of this directive is intended to make the insurance market more transparent and to protect the consumer who is less informed about these matters, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the main objective of this commission proposal is to promote a recast of the insurance mediation directive (imd) in order to protect consumers and ensure a high level of competition between insurance mediators in the european union. insurance plays an important role when consumers are in a situation of vulnerability and need. since the consumer has to trust mediators, they should be properly regulated and follow clear and comprehensive rules. it is therefore up to european legislators to ensure that the shortcomings of the sgp i are addressed, in particular those discovered as a result of the global financial crisis. the main innovations of the new legislation include the expansion of the scope to all distribution channels, regulation of the start-up of the business, provision of services and their supervision, also acting on issues of conflict of interest, harmonization of business development, and also on the provision of information to the consumer. it also lays the foundations for strengthening a genuine european insurance mediation market and regulating cross-border operations. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it makes an important contribution to the provision of more reliable and beneficial insurance services for the european citizen.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that potential applicants for funding are local authorities, public and private bodies, international organisations and non-governmental organisations, through co-financing. it is essential that the procedures and access to these budgets be simplified so that they can be used in the best possible way by member states and health professionals. on the other hand, it is clear that health is not limited to a growth logic and i think the title of the programme, health for growth, can lead to a misinterpretation. it is, however, necessary to recall that this choice demonstrates, in this period of european economic crisis, that health is not just synonymous with deficit. the general constraints on public finances require reform of health systems to control expenditure and optimise the sector's profitability and innovation. these reforms are key to enabling health systems to respond to the growing demand for care caused by demographic ageing and to continue to provide quality health care.
in writing. - the health for growth programme has an overall budget of €446 million for the period 2010-2020, is part of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to encourage innovation in healthcare, improving the well-being of european citizens. it is essential that the procedures and access to these budgets are as simple as possible so that they can be used in the best possible way by member states and healthcare professionals. the programme focuses on a number of priority objectives, including the prevention objective, which aims to identify risk factors - such as dietary behaviour - more precisely, allowing for more effective strategies. in view of the increase in life expectancy and the estimated 40% share of the elderly in the population by 2030, the programme should better integrate population ageing and age-related diseases, as well as alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. the european union should promote the creation of new jobs to respond to new social issues such as home care or adapted structures for dependent persons, elderly or not. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the health for growth programme has an overall budget of €446 million for the period 2010-2020, i.e. more than €60 million per year. it aims to focus on the main areas where eu action can bring real added value in the field of health. it is part of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to encourage innovation in healthcare and ensure its sustainability, improving the well-being of european citizens.
in writing. - i know . the report by ms grossetête focuses on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the health for growth programme, the third multiannual eu action programme in the field of health for the period 2014-2020. the health for growth programme has a total of 446 million for the period 2010-2020 and has four objectives: to boost innovation, to improve access to better and safer care, to promote disease prevention and to protect citizens against cross-border health threats. compared to the previous period (2007-2013), the programme benefits from an increase of 5,7%. this programme, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy, is open to local authorities, public and private bodies, international organisations and non-governmental organisations. i believe that the procedures and access to these budgets should be as simple as possible so that member states and health professionals can make the best use of them.
in writing. - health is not just a value in itself it is also a driving force for growth. only a healthy population can reach its full economic potential. the health sector is characterised by innovation and highly qualified professionals. health research and development has the potential to reach 0.3% of gdp. the healthcare sector is one of the largest in the eu: it accounts for about 10% of the eu's gross domestic product, employs one in ten workers and has a higher than average proportion of highly qualified workers. health plays a key role in the europe 2020 agenda. the overall objectives of the health for growth programme are to work with member states to encourage innovation in healthcare and to increase the sustainability of health systems, to improve the health of eu citizens and to protect them from cross-border health threats.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a regulation establishing the health for growth programme, the third multiannual programme of the european union for health action for the period 2014-2020. as part of the europe 2020 strategy, the health for growth programme aims to focus on the key areas where eu action can deliver real added value in health, encourage innovation and ensure the sustainability of healthcare and thereby improve the well-being of european citizens. the programme focuses on four key objectives: to strengthen innovation, to improve access to better and safer care, to promote disease prevention and to protect citizens against cross-border health threats, for which vaccination of populations is a particularly effective tool. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed under the health for growth programme can help to improve the provision of quality health care to the people of the european union.
in writing. the health for growth programme, part of the europe 2020 strategy, has as its main objective to focus on areas where eu action can promote development in the field of health. however, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between public and private sector actors, avoiding duplication of effort and using financial resources in a sustainable way. the health for growth programme is based on four pillars: strengthening innovation, improving access to better and safer care, promoting disease prevention and protecting citizens against cross-border health threats. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. these diseases are chronic and affect over 7 million people in europe, with serious health, economic and social consequences. i would also like to stress the importance of establishing proactive measures with regard to vaccination. i voted in favour of this document, which i consider essential for the health and well-being of all european citizens.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, in a system of open and competitive markets, union intervention is necessary to overcome market failures. measures are also needed to counter low investment in non-commercial projects. the union may contribute to the establishment and development of trans-european telecommunications networks by means of financial support and the mobilisation of additional funding for infrastructure projects. this can generate greater benefits in terms of market impact, administrative efficiency and resource use.
in writing. - broadband networks and digital service infrastructures in the telecommunications field are essential components of the way we communicate today. the dematerialization of communications and their speed bring unique opportunities but also important challenges that need to be addressed. the european economy will benefit greatly from the interconnection and interoperability of national networks, and the feasibility of creating interoperable digital public service infrastructures and the prospect of developing a genuine digital single market should be assessed.
in writing. - this initiative is based on the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth1, which gives a prominent position to digital infrastructure in the context of the digital agenda for europe flagship initiative. it stressed the need to ensure the deployment and uptake of broadband for all at increasing speeds through fixed and wireless technologies and to facilitate investment in the new, very fast, open and competitive internet networks which will be the arteries of the future economy. the eu has set itself ambitious targets for the deployment and uptake of broadband by 2020. the objective of this regulation is to establish a set of guidelines for the achievement of the objectives and priorities for broadband networks and digital service infrastructures in the field of telecommunications under the connecting europe facility. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - digital networks and services have a widely recognised importance in the present age. digital services, and in particular the internet, which is becoming a dominant platform for communications, services, business, education and participation in social and political life, are an important contribution to connecting eu member states and 500 million citizens. in this regard, and given the importance of a digital single market and the europe 2020 goals in terms of economic growth, social inclusion, job creation, technological innovation and enhanced research, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - this regulation lays down guidelines for the implementation and interoperability of projects of common interest in the field of trans-european networks in the area of telecommunications infrastructure. it aims to contribute to economic growth and to support the completion and smooth functioning of the internal market, in support of the competitiveness of the european economy, in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which is contradictory given the effect of the internal market on the exponential growth of the mortality rate of micro and smes. it is also known that private investment in this network will have little involvement of smes and will be rather handed over to the monopoly of the sector. the eligibility criteria and funding priorities will focus on projects of common interest in the field of digital service infrastructures that meet a set of criteria. the regulation explicitly assumes that the private sector should take the lead in deploying and modernising broadband networks and that public financial assistance for broadband should be limited to programmes or initiatives that focus on projects that cannot be financed exclusively by the private sector, thereby putting public money at the service of private sector profit. this is unacceptable.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that in the digital age, information and services are increasingly available online. consequently, the number of public and private sector websites is increasing rapidly. the european union market for web accessibility is made up of more than 175 000 companies. its economic impact in the european union, as well as the large gap in websites that are not accessible to all, make web accessibility a lucrative social business with significant potential for growth and inclusion. i therefore believe that the accessibility of the web can contribute to the development of the single market and allow wider access to services for all citizens of the european union.
in writing. - web accessibility could contribute to the development of the single market and allow wider access to services for all eu citizens. web accessibility is vital as it allows everyone to use websites, including people with disabilities. public sector bodies and entities providing basic services to the public should adopt inclusive practices on web accessibility to fulfil their obligations towards all citizens. the aim is to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites by defining harmonised requirements. member states should designate a competent authority for monitoring, which should be responsible for following up complaints from users or other interested parties regarding non-compliance with the accessibility requirements of the websites concerned. member states shall take all necessary measures to establish an enforcement mechanism laying down rules on proportionate and effective penalties to be applied in the event of infringement of national provisions. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - while it is widely desirable that public sector bodies provide services and information via the internet, it is equally desirable that these services take into account that not all citizens have access to, or the capacity or functional competence to access them via the internet. two challenges therefore arise: providing for those who do not have access to these services today and anticipating the limitations that those who access these services via the internet today may experience in the future, due in particular to their ageing. this is a continuing challenge which must involve not only public bodies but also civil society, in particular through user associations.
in writing. - this directive will help member states to meet their national commitments on web accessibility, as well as their commitment under the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities to public sector bodies. the accessibility of the web is of great importance for public sector bodies, so that they can reach as many citizens as possible and fulfil their public responsibilities. harmonisation will lead to better market conditions, more jobs, lower costs of web accessibility and more accessible websites - a triple win for governments, businesses and citizens. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the digital age is characterised by an increasing amount of information and services becoming increasingly available to the public online, which has led to a rapid and significant increase in the number of public and private sector websites. in view of the economic impact of digital for the development and growth of the single market, and in view of its role in ensuring wider access to services and information for all citizens of the european union, including citizens with disabilities, public sector bodies, as well as entities providing basic services to the public, should adopt inclusive practices in the area of web accessibility in order to fulfil their obligations and duties towards all citizens. in view of the above, i am voting in favour of this resolution, which proposes an approach to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and the adoption of harmonised requirements on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites.
in writing. - we welcome the proposal adopted today which aims to introduce mandatory accessibility for certain types of public bodies' (state, regional, local and public law bodies) websites, in essential government electronic services such as network services, in the banking sector, in education, social security, health services, social inclusion services and cultural activities. this directive aims to improve the lives of citizens, especially people with disabilities and the elderly, in terms of accessibility to these public bodies' websites, given that much of the information available is online. however, we consider that it should be safeguarded that member states that have already developed their national accessibility policies and standards on the basis of wcag 2 should be exempted from the application of this directive. this avoids additional costs for national, regional, local and other public authorities.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that long-term investments are essential for economic growth and job creation. without this funding, projects in the areas of infrastructure, research, development and innovation, which are essential for development, could not be launched or successfully implemented. at the moment, virtually all european countries are pursuing a policy of fiscal consolidation in order to control their debt, which can be a hindrance to development. while sound fiscal policies are the underlying foundation, it is essential that europe embarks on a path of sustainable growth, which increases its competitiveness vis-à-vis other regions of the world and ensures job creation. financing the real economy plays a crucial role in this process, despite the fact that the current crisis context presents a significant obstacle to sustainable growth in europe.
in the light of the above, i would ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the crisis in europe has weakened the financial system and compromised its ability to finance the real economy, including the channelling of savings into long-term investment. the climate we live in is dominated by uncertainty and risk aversion, but change is urgently needed if the economy is to develop to its full potential. in this context, it is desirable to consider how the financial sector could be encouraged to finance the real economy in long-term investments in order to promote sustained growth, which is essential to a robust economic recovery. the proposals in this report involve the definition of a regulatory framework to ensure that long-term investment will be a support for continued economic growth, the promotion of social welfare and the creation of a more inclusive economy. i voted in favour of this report as a positive instrument for tackling the significant obstacles to the financing of the real economy and for finding alternative solutions which put investment at the service of the european citizen.
in the light of the recent discrediting of the financial sector, the european union is currently experiencing a crisis of confidence. it is therefore urgent to restore that confidence, to restore confidence in the markets and to restore investor confidence. this will require a coordinated strategy, involving the european institutions and the member states, aimed at the long-term recovery of investment, which is vital for the future and sustainability of the european economy. the european commission has recently launched a debate on the long-term financing of the european economy, in particular the challenges to be overcome as a result of the recent economic and financial crisis. today the european parliament has approved what will be its contribution to this discussion, listing a total of 60 ideas which should be duly studied and analysed by the european commission and the member states.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial intermediation of the european economy. the crisis in europe has weakened the financial system and compromised its ability to finance the real economy, including the channelling of savings into long-term investment. the climate we live in is dominated by uncertainty and risk aversion, but change is urgently needed if the economy is to develop to its full potential. in this context, it is desirable to consider how the financial sector can be encouraged to finance the real economy in long-term investments in order to promote sustained growth, which is an essential support for a robust economic recovery. the proposals in this report involve the definition of a regulatory framework to ensure that long-term investment will be a support for continued economic growth, the promotion of social welfare and the creation of a more inclusive economy. i am voting in favour of this report, which i consider to be a positive instrument in combating the significant obstacles to the financing of the real economy and in seeking alternative solutions which put investment at the service of the european citizen.
in writing. - long-term investment is essential for economic growth and job creation. without such investments, projects in the areas of infrastructure, research and development and innovation (r&d) cannot be launched or successfully implemented. at present, virtually all european countries are pursuing a policy of fiscal consolidation in order to control their debt. while sound fiscal policies are the underlying foundation, it is essential that europe embarks on a path of sustainable growth, which increases its competitiveness vis-à-vis other regions of the world and ensures job creation. financing the real economy plays a crucial role in this process, but it currently faces significant obstacles in europe. we must find new long-term financing mechanisms to support the necessary investments, which will allow economic growth and job creation. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial intermediation of the european economy. the crisis in europe has weakened the financial system and compromised its ability to finance the real economy, including the channelling of savings into long-term investment. the current climate is dominated by uncertainty and risk aversion, and a shift towards unlocking the full potential of the economy is urgent. in this context, it is desirable to consider how the financial sector could be encouraged to finance the real economy in long-term investments in order to promote sustained growth, which is essential to a robust economic recovery. the proposals in this report involve the establishment of a regulatory framework to ensure that long-term investment will be a support for continued economic growth, the promotion of social welfare and the creation of a more inclusive economy. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important instrument in combating the obstacles to the financing of the real economy and in finding alternative solutions to put investment at the service of the european citizen.
in writing. - in voting on the honeyball report on sexual exploitation and prostitution, i could not support the idea of criminalising clients of prostitution. whatever judgement we make about prostitution itself, i am certain that criminalising clients in a voluntary sex service between adults would not be an appropriate solution, however positive (and far from consensual) the so-called nordic solution may be. i have always argued that criminalisation is always a last resort and that there are areas where it can be a problem rather than a solution. this is one of them. in the case of prostitution, criminalisation would only contribute to clandestine prostitution and make prostitutes (and now prostitutes...) even more vulnerable to exploitation by organised gangs and pimps. all that is necessary to punish in this area is already a crime: trafficking in women, forced prostitution, economic exploitation of prostitution. let's leave the penal code out of it where it's not called for.
- prostitution is an ancient reality in the history of mankind which undoubtedly contributed to sexual exploitation and often diminishes the dignity of women (although there is increasing male prostitution, and there is also female prostitution outside of basic economic needs). prostitution requires an approach from different perspectives and in several areas and should be considered as involving all the actors. hence its complexity and the subsequent failure of many measures aimed at reducing it. in this context, i think that the narrow and simplistic approach, starting with the criminalisation of the client, is frankly wrong. that is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that countries with a long history of importing minerals, such as the united states, japan and european countries, are experiencing increasing competition regarding access to and security of supply of strategic mineral resources. however, while there is unprecedented global demand for minerals and other natural resources, which represents a unique opportunity to enable mining to contribute to sustainable development, it poses a major challenge for developing countries. the exploitation of high-value natural resources, including oil, gas, minerals and timber, is a major source of conflict, and in many cases of human rights violations around the world, especially in a context where increasing competition for scarce renewable resources, such as land and water, is increasing. in general, in order to ensure that mining becomes a success factor in the development process of developing countries, i believe an integrated strategy is necessary.
in the case of the united states, the united kingdom and ireland, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for developing countries, this provides an opportunity to take advantage of their valuable natural resources. the exploitation of high-value natural resources, including oil, gas, minerals and timber, is a major source of conflict worldwide, especially in a context where increasing competition for scarce renewable resources, such as land and water, is increasing. in general, to ensure that mining becomes a success factor in the development process of developing countries, an integrated strategy is needed that addresses, inter alia, the following challenges: how to address the roots of conflict minerals; how to better manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining; how to better support and integrate artisanal and small-scale mining.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the community's economy. it is therefore necessary to be responsible in their use, otherwise they will cease to exist in the future. only through responsible business practices can we ensure economic growth and sustainable job creation. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the growing global demand for minerals and other natural resources such as oil, natural gas and wood, while providing an opportunity for sustainable development, also presents a challenge for developing countries in that high global competitiveness for these resources and raw materials and the scarcity of some renewable resources such as water and land also make them a source of conflict worldwide. this problematic context is aggravated by environmental degradation, population growth and climate change. in this sense, mismanagement of resources can lead to new conflicts and prevent the peaceful settlement of existing disputes. since this document points to the need for practices that make mining a success factor for the progress of developing countries, through better management of resources, responsible intervention by companies, compliance with the rules of international trade and investment for industrialization, and also through respect for human rights, i voted in favour of this resolution.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the increasing competition for access to and supply of mineral resources by major importing countries such as the united states and japan offers an opportunity for developing countries to take advantage of their own natural resources. this requires an integrated strategy that is ready to respond to the various challenges that arise: how to address the roots of conflict minerals, how to manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining, and how best to support and integrate artisanal and small-scale mining. in parallel, other issues related to the nature, extraction, management and sharing of mineral resources, the implications of international trade, and others are also presented. the rapporteur stresses the role of transnational companies in developing countries and the importance of these countries implementing reforms to ensure sustainable mining.
madam president, the brave people of ukraine need our solidarity and committed assistance. i came back from the euromaidan believing it is a genuine, popular revolution for human rights, democracy and the rule of the law. it was never about making ukraine choose between the eu and russia. ukraine is part of europe and must live in peace and good relations with all its neighbours, but mr[nbsp ]putin cannot export his model and impose an oligarchic, corrupt regime in ukraine against the will of the people. ukraine needs, immediately, a government which will be in tune with the euromaidan in delivering accountable governance while assuming urgent financial commitments, and one which will not promote stupid decisions such as the language law, playing into the hands of those who plan the division of the country. minority rights must be protected and the will of the tatars, specifically, must be respected. we cannot afford a conflict in crimea, forgetting the lessons of the first world war a hundred years ago. besides supporting ukraine politically and financially, the eu must provide concrete governance assistance to enable reform of the justice system and mechanisms against corruption. this means the eu must enact targeted sanctions against the corrupt, and help ukraine to recover stolen assets, and it must assist in credible trials of all those responsible for the maidan mass murders and other grave human rights violations. ukraine’s revolution is a product of eu soft power: our values, our principles and our goals. the eu cannot fail ukraine. to do so would be to fail europe.
the situation in iraq has been deteriorating daily for too many months. violence has reached unbearable levels, with bloody gun battles in fallujah and other cities in anbar province, where terrorist groups linked to the islamic state of iraq and the levant militia, with known links to al qaeda, have infiltrated sunni-majority areas, prompting government forces to intervene recklessly to cause casualties and, in particular, endanger the lives of civilians. the war in syria is obviously fuelling sectarian and inter-religious tensions in iraq, exacerbating the social fracture in a population already so fragile by insecurity and weak governance, at the root of poverty, unemployment, economic instability, corruption, precarious basic services and environmental degradation, where there are vast areas still contaminated by traces of depleted uranium and saddam hussein's chemical attacks, severely affecting the health of the iraqi people. this in a country that is rich and that is wasting resources, its own oil, gas, water, arable land and, of course, human capacity. the european union must overcome the divisions of the past, it cannot turn its back on the iraqi people, it must coordinate its efforts with the united nations on the ground, unami and the iraqi government itself to ensure access now to the most deprived areas in anbar province, in particular fallujah, where a humanitarian corridor is needed that also ensures passage for all civilians fleeing the areas of the greatest conflict. the european union has to strengthen its work with the government under the partnership and cooperation agreement by restoring and strengthening eujust lex and paying particular attention to capacity building in the field of human rights and institutions, justice reform and the fight against corruption. i would remind you that iraq is one of the countries which has been carrying out the most death sentences in recent years and is full of rape, torture and forced confessions, as the council has said. if the baghdad government does not commit itself to national reconciliation, to guaranteeing human rights, democratic principles, women's rights in particular, and to providing the population with basic services, then we should not be surprised that the national unity and territorial integrity of iraq may be increasingly in question, and this is obviously more visible in the kurdistan region. the european union must realise that this is not just iraq, but the whole region, and the implications of the conflict in syria, but also the interference of countries in the region. iran is much talked about, but saudi arabia is much less talked about. it is time for the european union to have a comprehensive strategy, an intelligent strategy, which does not focus on the hurriya camp issue alone, but which adopts a policy which will actually help to eradicate terrorism and strengthen the capacity for governance in iraq.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, some 11 years ago, nato forces and some european member states invaded iraq on the basis of a huge lie: the alleged existence of weapons of mass destruction. george bush, tony blair, josé maria aznar met in the azores, with the then prime minister of portugal, and current commission president barroso, as the doorman of the summit. the meeting resulted in a declaration of war on the people of iraq, who had already been victims of saddam hussein's odious regime. ten years of war have left more than a million dead, a country devastated, where poverty and inequality are rampant and the population suffers from basic deprivation. the number of internal refugees and displaced persons to neighbouring countries is increasing. the latest escalation of violence is indeed very worrying with hundreds of dead and wounded in acts of terrorism against civilians, with extrajudicial death sentences, with violations of human rights, persecution of journalists and even religious persecution. it is obviously essential to condemn this violence. demand freedom of religion, press and movement and the defence of the most vulnerable groups. but we must not forget what has brought all this about, and we must continue to condemn in the strongest terms the military intervention of 11 years ago. the countries that took part in it should apologize to the iraqi people. the european union's relations with iraq should be guided by human rights and not by the partnership and cooperation agreements, which will not bring iraq the necessary social and economic development ... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the s&d group. we are seeing an exponential increase in the use of drones in attacks and assassinations of judicial structures by powers like the united states of america, occurring outside the legal context of the laws of war, that is, in violation of international law. this type of technology, which is more precise than many other weapons used in combat, could offer even greater guarantees of compliance with the laws of war, since it limits the destruction and deaths to the battlefield, but the truth is that when used in situations and areas where there is no declared armed conflict, its use is unequivocally illegal and in violation of international law and human rights in particular, including humanitarian law. that is why, at a time when several member states of the european union are preparing to develop this technology, it is imperative that this be accompanied by explicit regulation of the policy of using drones and the inherent responsibilities within the framework of international law and criminal law, international criminal law. the revision of international humanitarian law, which governs conduct during armed conflict, is important and must safeguard the fundamental value of the right to life by excluding the use of drones outside the context of war, by making it illegal and unequivocally prohibiting it in the absence of armed conflict. this means that any extrajudicial execution outside the context of war is a summary execution, punishable by criminal law, and may even constitute a territorial infringement of third countries. because this technology is semi-autonomous, remotely operated, often controlled from far away from the battlefield, legal testing is all the more important. it is therefore also urgent that the european union should work towards the inclusion of drone technology in international agreements and treaties on arms control and non-proliferation. today we are experimenting with this outside the territory of the european union. we're supposed to meet this used here?
on behalf of the green/efa group. the report we are discussing here today on fundamental rights in the european union in the year ahead is one of the best pieces of political opinion initiative reporting on agenda-setting that i have read on these issues here in the european parliament during this term. it is a comprehensive report, a report which is internally coherent and a report which is not only devoted to making a diagnosis but also to making a forecast and to laying down prescriptions for the future in what should in fact be our main mission, namely to keep the rule of law, democratic values and fundamental rights alive and well and promoted within the european union. so i would like to congratulate our colleague, louis michel, on his excellent work. my dear colleagues, madam commissioner, this desire for fundamental rights, the rule of law and democratic values in the union is the union's greatest challenge. it's always been from the beginning, let's have no doubt about that. when the coal and steel community or the european economic community was created, the founding fathers of the union always said that these instruments served only one purpose, which was to guarantee peace within the union and to guarantee peace by respecting the rule of law in each member state of the union. otherwise we are back to the situation we had during the league of nations, where one member state tests the limits of the principles of our community, another violates those principles and then, when the politicians finally wake up, it is too late. that is our main mission now: to prevent it from being too late. the limits are already being tested at this point, our response was behind the scenes, it was not an active response, it was a reactive response only. all the institutions - commission, parliament, council - have different shortcomings in the way they deal with these matters. the commission because it is not yet democratically legitimated, the parliament because it is too political an institution, the council because each member state always thinks it is next in line to be accused of violating fundamental rights. it is essential to create non-political institutions, institutions of prestige and neutrality, and that is why this report calls for the creation of a copenhagen commission, which can play this role and press the alarm button when the alarm is already in place in one of our member states.
mr president, mrs reding, ladies and gentlemen, for the vast majority of us, the european union is above all a union of values common to all the member states, which are at the heart of the union's identity and allow all citizens to identify with it: respect for human dignity, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights. respect for these values is an essential condition for any state to be able to belong to the union. the action of the union and its member states must be irreproachable in the field of fundamental rights. a genuine culture of fundamental rights must therefore be promoted and strengthened, not only in the institutions of the union but also in the member states. we have taken important steps by including articles 2, 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union, by making the charter of fundamental rights legally binding, by making the promotion of the union's fundamental rights one of the priorities for the future of the area of freedom, security and justice, and by confirming, by placing human rights at the heart of the union's external action. we have often used this house, fairly and timely, to advocate for greater respect for human rights in the rest of the world. the fact that we, unlike others, analyse the degree of respect for these same rights in the union and that we are determined to see them strengthened underlines our credibility in this fight. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr louis michel, on his work. i do not agree with all the points in your report, but i do recognise that overall it fulfils the objective of making us responsible for better respect for fundamental rights. human rights are the rights of every person. respect for these rights is a requirement of our civilization, which we must cherish and pass on to future generations, without any distinction based on race, colour, sex, language, religion, political opinion or other convictions. their protection must be absolute and in no case may excuses or reasons of state secrecy be invoked to limit the obligation of states to protect these rights and to investigate and prosecute any violations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. schengen was fundamental to our process of european construction, but the fact is that the free movement of people, goods, services and capital also allows crimes to be committed with an ease that would not have been possible before. and the directive will make it possible, in keeping with the times, to combat more effectively, from the outset, crossborder crime which causes great social alarm - whether it is terrorism, murder, drug trafficking, corruption, paedophilia networks, human trafficking, all the crimes we can think of with a crossborder basis. media cases such as madeleine mccann or freeport, to give two examples involving two countries - my country, portugal, and england - would have benefited from this directive right away because of the less administrative and bureaucratic complexity it will ensure. it should be noted that the directive does not have the effect of altering the obligation to respect the fundamental rights and legal principles enshrined in article 6 of the treaty on european union. but the european investigation order will be a judicial decision or validated by a judicial authority of a so-called issuing state so that they are executed in another or other member states, executing states, various specific measures for the taking of evidence which will be carried out under the principle of mutual recognition. evidence measures such as the hearing of witnesses, searches or seizures, dna collection, surreptitious deliveries, account information or banking transactions which in turn will be carried out in the states to which such measures are requested, unless grounds for refusal which are specifically provided for in the directive can be invoked. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. they are allowed to invoke what they can say to their advantage, as they can use the right of appeal. and all this administrative simplification and bureaucratization, this reinforcement of the principle of mutual recognition, the better coordination between those who, in a 28-member area, today have the difficult task of investigating crimes, with a fundamental consensus that was possible to obtain in the european parliament, in very difficult, long and complex negotiations with the council and the commission, end up being a result that, frankly, for now, makes me very happy. that is why, mr president, in this opening speech, and if i do not have time at the end, i would like to thank in advance and sincerely those who represented the different presidencies, from the danish to the irish, the cypriot, the slovenian or the greek, all the shadow rapporteurs without exception, crocetta and josef weidenholzer for the s&d, sarah ludford for the alde, albrecht for the greens, ecr, mr timothy kirkhope, and mr de jong for the gue, as well as those who assisted us in this task, mr anze and mr pascal, from the legal point of view.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mrs reding, ladies and gentlemen, i speak here today on behalf of the epp, on behalf of myself and on behalf of mrs kinga gál, who, for reasons of force majeure, had to leave strasbourg earlier. we cannot defend democracy, we cannot define the rule of law and we cannot speak of the credibility of justice without an independent, equitable, effective, impartial, fair and above all functioning within reasonable time limits. measures such as the european arrest warrant and the european investigation order in criminal matters are important instruments for that purpose. effective combating of transnational crime requires more efficient mechanisms that can ensure that the opening of borders is not taken advantage of by those seeking to escape justice. for many of us, the implementation of the european arrest warrant has contributed significantly to speeding up surrender procedures in the union and thus constitutes the cornerstone of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters. we recognise, however, that it has still been the subject of numerous criticisms and remains subject to enormous challenges, aggravated by the incomplete and unbalanced nature of the union's criminal justice area. the shortcomings in the legislation have led to disproportionate interference with the fundamental rights of suspects and accused persons, leading to inconsistent practices in the member states with regard to legal safeguards and protection against violations of fundamental rights, causing uncertainty and undermining mutual trust. examples are the lack of explicit inclusion of fundamental rights safeguards or the proportionality check, combined with an incomplete and inconsistent implementation of european law. i agree with the rapporteur, mrs sarah ludford, and support her proposals for the establishment of minimum standards on the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, as well as a cross-cutting measure to define principles applicable to all mutual recognition instruments, in order to ensure a better balance in the criminal justice area of the european union. and i welcome the example of baroness ludford, a member of parliament who has never ceased to make a meritorious fight for human rights. i hope that it will serve as an example in your country, a country which has opted out of the european charter of fundamental rights and most of the provisions of the area of freedom, security and justice. i also take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on the european decision on criminal investigations, mr nuno melo. i congratulate him on the excellent work which has enabled an agreement to be reached at first reading, especially in view of the complexity and sensitivity of the whole dossier from the outset. the european investigation order will thus have a horizontal scope, applying to all investigative measures aimed at gathering evidence. this decision should be complemented by the gradual adoption of the procedural rights package, and i am pleased that the grounds for refusal have taken account of respect for fundamental rights and the principles of ne bis in idem and proportionality. this new comprehensive instrument for the taking of evidence in cases with a cross-border dimension, based on the principle of mutual recognition, should make it possible to replace the current framework for taking of evidence, which is too fragmented and complex. one of the reasons for the failure of the old mechanism has already been mentioned by vice-president reding. it was the deplorable circumstance that only two member states had implemented it. i hope that the situation will now be different and that there will be better control of the failure of member states to implement community legislation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. mr. batten is insistent that european police will have to investigate crimes. it is clear that european police will have to investigate crimes. it is insurgent because england, in particular, is having to spend money. it is true, england like france, germany like portugal, like each of the 28 european countries, but with a priority which is the very consequence of being in a common space which is the european union. the purpose is to ensure that whoever commits a crime will be investigated, tried, assessed of his guilt in an impartial and impartial court. and when the test is done, punished. or, if that test is not carried out, acquitted. that's what the european union is supposed to do. the european union is a space of freedom. every day we consecrate this freedom here. we also enshrine it in these instruments, giving all the guarantees assumed in a state governed by the rule of law to those who are being investigated, to those who are being accused. in a designation that has to do with the portuguese legal order: those who are suspected. but one thing is certain: if, when schengen comes into force, allowing for the easy movement of people, and being sure that crimes are also more easily committed, the justice of all countries does not follow this flow, the justice of the countries is not able to respond, then we will not have a european union as an area of freedom, because we will fail in the european union as an area of justice. i would like to conclude, madam president, by thanking once again all the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the council.
madam president, commissioner, the legal status and access to fishery resources of the svalbard archipelago, where norway has unilaterally declared a fisheries protection zone, partly included in the barents sea sea treaty agreed with russia, is extremely complex and requires firm and immediate action by the european union to protect the legitimate interests of the member states' fleets operating in this area. once again, the use of fishing rights, the exploitation of stocks and the appropriation of fishing quotas for commonly shared resources have been carried out to the benefit of third countries and, of course, to the detriment of the fishing interests of the union. as has been acknowledged and proven on other occasions, such measures taken by third countries, to the detriment of the establishment of multilateral agreements involving the european union, pose a serious threat to the balance of resources, the sustainability and competitiveness of the european fisheries sector, causing trade distortions resulting from unfair competition between various operators. in view of the complexity and gravity of this situation, which is of concern to several member states, it is urgent that the commission take a proactive approach and use effective and proportionate means to address this problem. the commission cannot have two weights and two measures. that is, to be extremely zealous, restrictive, protectionist on the internal level and lax and permissive on the external level. this scenario requires the commission to be consistent with its internal operating standards, requiring immediate action by appropriate means to defend equitable access to resources and the sustainability of fishing. to this end, and as a first step towards solving the problem, the commission is required to participate in the next meeting of the joint norwegian-russian fisheries commission in order to start negotiations and uncompromisingly defend the rights of the european union and the legitimate interests of the european fleet.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, being part of a political family does not mean supporting its populism, authoritarianism, aggressiveness or demagogy. that is what i would like to remind the european people's party of too, when we often discuss police violence in mexico in this house and the popular party is silent, when we discuss the murders of trade unionists in colombia and the popular party is silent, because it is obviously bound by the political ties of the spanish popular party. fortunately, when the same kind of incidents happen in venezuela, the popular party finally speaks, and then we can win a resolution. the people's party's inconsistencies are left to the people's party. as i say, seriously, when i read amendments from my political family, the left-wing political family, that say that the protests in venezuela are all funded by american imperialism, what i ask myself is: really? are we still at this point? we are still saying about venezuela what the angolan government says about its opposition, what the syrian government says about its opposition, what the right-wing governments also say in burma, everywhere, about their opposition. well, the inconsistencies of each political group stay with those political groups. what we should be concerned about is the european parliament's consistency on human rights. and the european parliament's consistency on human rights - which begins, i should remind you, at home, with hungary, with bulgaria, with many other countries - must extend to venezuela, and call for the security of all venezuelans to be guaranteed, for the right to peaceful demonstration, i remember, peaceful demonstration, to be guaranteed in venezuela and for all parties in venezuela to call for peace. i'm finished, mr president. we must stand with the people of venezuela, with the people of venezuela who want to eradicate poverty, also with the people of venezuela who want to demonstrate peacefully.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. oh, that's right, it was the same script we saw in 2002. the exact same script of the planned coup attempt between the right, the fascist groups and, yes, the diplomatic representations of the united states, obviously with their heavy funding. for those who are more distracted, there are numerous documentaries available, including some very interesting ones made by the bbc. destabilization, indiscriminate killings, because yes, opposition groups and pro-government groups were killed with the exact same weapons, paramilitary groups and terrorists, destruction of infrastructure... it does not take much intellectual dexterity to understand that this is not really of interest to the venezuelan government. there is no lack of freedom in venezuela, but it is clear that incitement to violence cannot be allowed in any constitutional order. the problem of the majority in this parliament is, indeed, with the sovereign and progressive course which the venezuelan people have decided to take. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. parliament is playing exactly the same game as the attempted coup d'état, with the stamp of the right, the so-called left, passing through the socialists.
mr president, violence against protesters in venezuela has already killed 50 people, as president maduro himself admitted yesterday, hundreds of wounded and hundreds of prisoners. this is unacceptable. the venezuelan people including students, journalists, opposition, civil society activists are calling for solutions to high crime, inflation, empty shops of essential goods, against corruption, impunity and repression of the legitimate exercise of their rights to assembly, association, demonstration, freedom of press, expression, are guaranteed by the venezuelan constitution. instead of retaliating with weapons and apologizing for an ongoing coup d'état or such an imperialist conspiracy, the venezuelan government should establish a peaceful and inclusive dialogue with all segments of venezuelan society, in particular the most discontented. this resolution by the european parliament is clear, it is balanced. the disarmament of pro-government militias, the release of prisoners, the independent investigation into violence against protesters and the end of persecution and censorship of the media are indispensable and urgent steps to involve the various political actors and civil society if the government of president maduro is to, in fact, still respond to the aspirations of the venezuelan people.
blue-card question. – paul, you know that we are on the same side on many things but you have uttered sacred words: ‘¡no pasarán!’. you know that these words are words against political repression. do you believe that political repression, when employed from the right side, so to speak, is justified, or do you believe, like me, that political repression should always be contained in the interests of pluralism and liberty for all people?
mr president, the recent storms in our regions are a sign of the importance of natural disasters to our people. unfortunately, climate change is leaving us no choice but to take preventive action in the field of energy and climate policies, but also the need to make the mechanisms for helping our people more flexible. the union must say yes, even if the criteria for the level of damage in relation to gdp are not met, but if there are, for example, impacts affecting an entire sector of activity or infrastructure, such as ports, roads and airports, which make it impossible to resume economic and social activity under normal conditions. the regions are often confronted with losses which, although not of a major scale, nevertheless have a major impact on the scale of their reality. and, mr president, it is precisely at these moments when the union's presence is most needed that it cannot fail to make itself felt.
mr president, heavy snowfall in slovenia and austria has caused the isolation of several regions. severe storms in the united kingdom have left a considerable part of the territory flooded. severe sea turbulence and strong winds caused enormous damage in spain and portugal, my country. these are just some examples of the consequences of the bad weather conditions that have affected several member states. i would like to express my solidarity with the people affected and appeal for the european union to show solidarity with the victims and with these countries. the increase and severity of disasters worldwide is partly due to the effects of climate change. the new civil protection mechanism legislation recognises the link between the increase and severity of disasters and climate change. climate change is a real threat to people and the planet. the european union must maintain its ambition and leadership to achieve a binding global agreement in 2015. there can be no more delays. it's our survival at stake.
in writing. bad weather conditions have become a constant in several eu member states. in portugal, the coastal areas have been severely affected in recent months by a wave of severe storms, strong winds and strong sea swells, which have resulted in several floods and various physical and material damage. as this type of phenomenon is becoming more frequent and its effects are increasingly felt by our populations, it is urgent that the european union should define how best to provide support. this type of natural disaster should be covered by the european union solidarity fund, which is currently being reformed, and there should be a european strategy for reprogramming the structural funds to cover the damage caused by such weather.
mr president, women have played a key role in the fishing industry, not only in the processing and marketing of fishery products but also in fishing, shellfish and aquaculture, and in the preparation and maintenance of fishing gear and bait. however, their socioeconomic role is not very visible, and the estimated 100,000 women registered as workers on the fishing line represent only a statistical value, far from the reality of women in this sector. this report contributes to the enhancement and visibility of the role of women in fisheries, as well as to the need to strengthen social and labour protection measures, vocational training and promotion, and participation in decision-making processes. to this end, i also consider it essential to mobilise and participate in women's associations and to organise and operate them in a network, with the aim of promoting the exchange of experience and the development of projects promoted by women fishermen, which include components which are currently indispensable for the success of this type of initiative, namely training, innovation, diversification and exploitation.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that contracts are the indispensable legal instrument of any economic transaction. it is therefore necessary to supplement directive 2011/83/eu by updating certain legal provisions governing certain aspects of the obligation to ensure conformity in the context of consumer contracts, related services and digital content. the updating process should take into account the needs of the digital economy and the relevant case law of the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. - i am pleased that you voted in favour of this report, taking account of the views of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. - the harmonization of law, particularly as regards buying and selling, is always a sensitive matter which is subject to natural caution on the part of the member states and which threatens to conflict with their legal systems and traditions. it is understandable that the increasingly cross-border nature of purchases and sales and the need to protect consumers suggest that we can move towards a genuine european contract law, but i believe that this path must be followed with safety and caution, otherwise it may have a more negative than positive impact on european trade. i hope that the step taken will demonstrate the virtues of this standardisation and that its results, if they prove positive and credible, will encourage policy-makers to take a more integrated approach in this respect.
in writing. - the differences in contract law between the various member states often prevent traders and consumers from carrying out certain crossborder transactions within the internal market. the obstacles created by these differences discourage traders, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), from engaging in cross-border trade or expanding their activity to new markets in the member states. consumers are also harmed by not having access to products offered by traders from other member states. the general objective of this proposal is to improve the establishment and functioning of the internal market by promoting the expansion of crossborder trade for businesses and by facilitating crossborder purchases by consumers. this can be achieved by providing an autonomous and uniform set of contract law rules, including consumer protection provisions the common european sales law which can be seen as a second contract law regime within the national law of each member state. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the berlinguer/lehne report because i believe that a common law on crossborder contracts for the purchase and sale of goods and services is an important contribution to the creation of a genuine internal market in the eu. cross-border acquisitions in the eu should no longer be governed by the national laws of the member states, given the uncertainty created by the potential conflict of laws. the ideal solution would be to have an eu law on sales contracts that would replace the different national laws. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. on the other hand, it is important to support the imaginative solution of this report, because the idea of voluntary application of eu law in cross-border relations according to the will of the parties can become a model for other areas of contracts in civil or commercial law, and be the genesis of a real eu code for contracts.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a regulation on the common european law of sales and purchases (cepc), which is an innovative initiative of great importance to consumers and businesses operating in the internal market. this document is the result of the initiative on european contract law, which has been discussed for many years and aims to solve the problems of the internal market caused by the existence of divergent contract laws at national level. the main aspects addressed in this report include the confirmation of the optional nature of this instrument, so that the esdc and national legislation can coexist and be developed together. the scope has been restricted to distance sales but includes digital contracts. the level of consumer protection is consistent with the requirements of the treaty, is legally satisfactory and introduces improvements in the level of commercial guarantees for consumers. in view of the above, and because i consider that this proposal for a regulation is advantageous for consumers and businesses in the internal market, particularly in this digital age, i voted in favour of this report.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not affected by the introduction of the single market. the optional nature of the document has been confirmed, so that a common european law of sale and purchase and national law can coexist and be developed together. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve of this report, welcoming the european commission's proposal and supporting its general objectives, in particular the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states in areas such as labelling and packaging, ingredients, etc. the scope of the proposals which are intended to facilitate the functioning of the internal market in tobacco and related products, based on a relevant and necessary concern for health protection, is to be commended. i therefore support the harmonization of packaging in the internal market, as at present member states cannot adapt their legislation effectively to new developments. it is therefore appropriate to provide for health warnings of a broader scope than that provided for in this directive.
in writing. - the report by mrs linda mcavan deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. the measures taken by the eu over the years to combat smoking have helped to reduce the number of smokers in the european area from 40% in 2002 (in the eu15) to 28% in 2012 (in the eu27). nevertheless, smoking remains the leading cause of preventable deaths in the eu, killing around 700 000 people a year. public health expenditure in the eu for the treatment of tobacco-related diseases amounts to some eur 25.3 billion per year. given that 70% of smokers start smoking before the age of 18, this directive aims primarily to include measures to dissuade young people from smoking, such as the use of stronger health warnings and the prohibition of packaging and fragrances that may be particularly attractive to young people.
in writing. - the revision of the current tobacco products directive, which dates back to 2001, aims mainly to include measures to dissuade young people from smoking, such as the use of stronger health warnings and the prohibition of packaging and flavourings that may be particularly attractive to young people. the new measures include increasing health warnings to 65% on both sides of packaging, banning certain flavourings and regulating e-cigarettes as medicines only if they are presented as having curative or preventive properties. this legislation introduces new rules on how tobacco products are produced, presented and sold and covers other products that were not yet regulated at eu level, such as e-cigarettes. we hope that we have taken a decisive step towards reducing tobacco consumption, particularly among young people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows for greater regulation of the internal market in tobacco and tobacco products. this final version of the directive adopts a balanced position which allows the health of europeans and the regulation of the internal market to be defended, while also taking into account the regional, social and economic specificities of tobacco production. this is a very important issue for the industry in the region where i come from, the azores, where it directly employs 133 people. the production of regular-sized tobacco packages represents about 30% of total production, which would be at risk if the european commission's initial proposal had been implemented, namely the compulsory health warnings covering 75% of the sides of the packages. finally, i believe that the fight against counterfeiting, both of tobacco and of its derivatives, is now being stepped up, given the new requirements for the traceability of tobacco and its constituents.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal is to improve the functioning of the internal market in the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. the compromise text, which was the result of the trilogue meetings, received my favourable vote, and the new directive could represent a step forward in harmonising various aspects relating to scientific, international and market developments, as well as in harmonising with the implementation of various international obligations.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the issue of prostitution and gender equality is complicated by the existence of two competing models on how to approach the problem. the first model considers prostitution to be a violation of women's rights and a way of perpetuating gender inequality. the corresponding legislative approach is abolitionist and criminalizes prostitution-related activities, including sometimes the purchase of sexual services, while prostitution itself is not illegal. the second model claims that prostitution itself promotes gender equality by promoting women's right to control what they want to do with their bodies. however, it can also be considered that by making prostitution and slavery normal activities, or by legalizing them in any form, one legalizes sexual slavery and gender inequality for women. i believe that we must find a solution to prevent sexual exploitation and at the same time ensure that women who engage in prostitution have better health, safety and protection at work and in society.
in writing. - the european parliament has been faced with an important dilemma on the question of prostitution: whether to treat it as an economic activity like any other, carried on by non-coerced adults, or to recognise it as a violent form of human degradation, regardless of whether it is voluntary or coercive, which particularly affects women who are often involved in trafficking networks that exploit and rape them. i think that the first approach disrespects the prostitute by equating the body with a product which can be freely disposed of and enjoyed in exchange for money. the objectification of the body of another and the commodification of desire and pleasure are associated with disrespect for the other and the treatment of him as a mere object which i cannot but repudiate. i believe that the states should have the final say in how these issues are dealt with, with the utmost respect for the principle of subsidiarity, but i believe that the way to combat an offence against human dignity should not be to legalise and tax its practice or to normalize it by means of nebulous distinctions and deliberately euphemistic concepts such as that of a sex worker which hide very harsh and brutal realities.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this report because i consider that the matters dealt with here are the responsibility of the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. although i agree with some of the decisions taken here, such as the condemnation of trafficking in women for prostitution, the condemnation of child prostitution and the condemnation of sexual exploitation, i believe that these matters are already dealt with by the various criminal codes of the member states and do not have to be decided by the european parliament.
in writing. - this own-initiative report contains many elements which fall within the sphere of competence of each member state. i voted against it for the reason stated above and because i consider that practices in the different member states are different and that standardization could disperse the importance of this topic. the issue of trafficking in human beings must be the key issue to be tackled by the union and measures and actions must be adopted with zero tolerance for offenders. the union's policies must address the causes of these heinous acts, which are contrary to every fundamental right.
in writing. - this report on prostitution and sexual exploitation takes its starting point from the directives on victims of violence and trafficking. according to various reports, some 40-42 million people are involved in prostitution, and about 96 percent of prostitutes are women. prostitution is understood as a form of violence and a consequence of unequal power relations, and as such also as an obstacle to equality between women and men. the report therefore opposes the growing industry and markets of prostitution in europe, where hundreds of thousands of women and girls are abused. the report acknowledges the failure of the pro-prostitution industry's strategies. legalization did not create security for women, it only led to an increase in the industry and trade of women and legitimized the pimp and brothel owners. although we do not agree with the distinction between forced and voluntary prostitution, we consider the report to be quite positive.
in writing. - i know . i approve this report, considering that solvit as an instrument has achieved tangible results and has proven its usefulness and value for the single market. however, there is still a huge room for improvement in helping citizens and businesses to benefit from their rights in the single market through solvit and other measures. many examples of over-regulation or of late or abusive application, or examples of national rules contrary to union law, can be and are discovered through the solvit cases. solvit is often the place where citizens and businesses tell the authorities that something is not working as expected. in this respect, solvit has great potential to ensure the smooth functioning of the entire single market and more work should be done to use this knowledge and findings to correct any shortcomings.
in writing. - to ensure that the single market works for the benefit of citizens and businesses, it is essential to improve the information available to people and businesses about their rights in the single market and the rules in force in the different member states. it is also important to offer them the assistance they need to solve cross-border problems. solvit has achieved tangible results, proving its usefulness and value for the single market. however, there is still room for improvement in helping citizens and businesses to benefit from their single market rights through solvit and other measures. it is recommended that solvit can refer cases where member states' national rules are contrary to eu single market legislation to the european commission and that the commission better explore how it can use the principle of identification and public reporting of offenders to compel member states to implement and transpose single market legislation. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - solvit is a european network, set up in 2002, for the informal settlement of crossborder disputes concerning the incorrect application of the single market rules. this network has proven its effectiveness and usefulness, receiving over three thousand complaints per year and with an 89% success rate. the european parliament has today argued that there is room for improvement in the solvit network, in particular to enable it to deal with more complex issues and to focus on greater network specialisation, for example in the business sector.
in writing. - solvit was set up in 2002 as an informal online dispute resolution network for crossborder disputes arising from incorrect or inaccurate application of single market rules between citizens or businesses and national administrations across the eu, insofar as such disputes are not subject to judicial proceedings at national or eu level. solvit is an online dispute resolution mechanism and at the same time a network of cooperation between national administrations, which contributes to improving the enforcement capacity of eu law at national level by promoting the correct application of eu law. solvit as an instrument has achieved tangible results and has proven its usefulness and value for the single market. however, there is still a huge room for improvement in helping citizens and businesses to benefit from their rights in the single market through solvit and other measures. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the proper functioning of the single market for the benefit of citizens and businesses requires improving the information available on their rights in the single market and on the rules in force in the different member states, as well as providing the necessary assistance for solving problems at cross-border level. solvit, established in 2002, is an online network for the informal resolution of crossborder disputes arising from the incorrect application of single market rules between citizens or businesses and national administrations across the european union. in september 2013, the commission presented a recommendation aimed at improving the solvit network and mentioning that the action plan your europe should help to improve the availability and quality of information on rights in the eu single market and to raise awareness of their rights among citizens and businesses, in particular smes, by referring them to the solvit network whenever they encounter such problems. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that solvit is a mechanism with great potential for solving problems for citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i know . solvit was set up in 2002 as an online network for the informal resolution of crossborder disputes concerning the incorrect or inaccurate application of single market rules. the network is also a cooperation network between national administrations, helping to improve the enforcement capacity of eu law. the solvit network has achieved good results, proving its usefulness and value for the european single market. however, there is still a great deal of room for improvement in supporting citizens and businesses to fully benefit from their rights in the single market through solvit. in order to make the most of the potential of the single market, it is necessary to close some gaps, such as the fact that some national rules in member states are contrary to european law. the document also proposes that a formal framework for solvit be established, alongside the adoption of relevant targets for the performance of the network.
in writing. - solvit is an online network for informal dispute resolution for cross-border disputes. the european parliament's previous annual reports on solvit have focused on analysing the functioning of this network and proposed measures to improve its work within the single market. these measures have so far focused on improving information for citizens about their rights and information for businesses about rules and laws. however, the report voted on today goes further. it is a harsh criticism of the member states. stresses that the main reason for the various problems in the operation of the solvit network is that the rules in many member states are contrary to eu single market legislation. more specifically, one of the main problems mentioned is the late or incorrect application of european union legislation or the conflict between national and european law. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report. given the inadequacy of traditional judicial cooperation in relation to the current european reality, the adoption of this directive is undoubtedly a positive step forward, clearly conducive to the reinforcement of the construction of the european criminal area. it crystallizes the tension between progress in terms of transfer of sovereignty in the name of security and protection of fundamental rights. the challenge to the european criminal justice system is, of course, to be able to do so in a way that respects and guarantees fundamental rights. it is significant that the preamble to the charter of fundamental rights expressly refers to the area of freedom, security and justice, given its particularly sensitive nature in terms of fundamental rights and freedoms. and needless to say, your guarantee must be real and not formal. the deliberate and well-considered creation of the european criminal area implies that judicial review of respect for fundamental rights is ensured in the union.
in writing. - the european investigation order (eio) is a judicial decision issued by a competent authority of a member state (the issuing state) to have one or more specific investigative measures carried out in another member state (the executing state) with a view to gathering evidence. parliament, thanks to the excellent work of my colleague nuno melo, whom i congratulate on the quality of his report, has seen its main objectives achieved in striking the right balance between the need for strong and efficient judicial cooperation between the member states in combating crime and the defence of the rights of the accused and suspects. it is right to recognise the need for swift and efficient cooperation between member states and i hope that the european investigation decision can make a positive contribution to improving the european response to crossborder crime. it will be for the judicial and police authorities of the member states to give practical and operational content to this instrument which is of great importance and interest for the proper conduct of the difficult investigative work.
in writing. - after a long and intensive period of negotiation, an important instrument to combat organised and crossborder crime in the european union has been created. the european investigation order allows one member state (the issuing state) to require the execution of a certain investigative measure (such as dna collection, telecommunications interception, supervised deliveries, covered investigations) from another member state (the executing state). the investigative measure requested by the authorities of another member state should be carried out with the same speed and priority as similar national proceedings and within a fixed period of 90 days, with a member state being able to refuse to carry it out only in a limited number of cases laid down in the directive. this instrument has allowed for enhanced protection of the fundamental rights of suspects and accused persons in the relevant proceedings. the judicial authorities of a member state may refuse a european investigation order if there are substantial grounds for believing that the execution of the investigative measure would be incompatible with their obligations under the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. - this report concerns the adoption of the directive on the european investigation order in criminal matters. in view of the acknowledged inadequacy of traditional judicial cooperation in relation to the current european reality, this proposal for a directive constitutes a positive step forward and is conducive to the revitalisation of the construction of the european criminal space, including aspects related to the transfer of sovereignty, security, respect for and guarantee of the protection of fundamental rights. in practice, the creation of the european criminal area implies ensuring judicial control of respect for fundamental rights and freedoms in the european union. after the european union promoted police and judicial cooperation to compensate for the disappearance of internal borders, the importance of the european criminal space and the benefits of the progressive construction of a homogeneous criminal space in the european space are now evident. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed contribute to the promotion of freedom, security and justice in the european union.
in writing. - a european investigation order (eio) is a judicial decision issued or validated by a judicial authority of a member state for the purpose of carrying out in another member state one or more specific investigative measures with a view to obtaining evidence in accordance with the directive in question. i am voting in favour of the dei report because i believe that evidence already in the possession of the competent authorities in the executing state should be obtained, that specific rules are required which are better dealt with separately and that it is essential to facilitate access to evidence existing in other member states. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr nuno melo, on his hard work, and above all on having achieved a satisfactory result for the citizens of europe.
in writing. - the report approves the draft directive on the european investigation order which, having been issued or validated by a national judicial authority, will subsequently be executed in another member state for the purpose of obtaining evidence and may be requested by a suspect or accused person, within the framework of the rights of defence under national criminal proceedings. despite the well-known good intentions and all the guarantees with which these proposals are usually wrapped, as is the case, what is important is to advocate for faster and more effective cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission's proposal to waive the visa requirement for moldovan citizens is due to the considerable progress made by this country over the last three and a half years in the framework of the visa liberalisation dialogue. at the vilnius eastern partnership summit in november 2013, moldova initialled the association agreement with the european union and became the first eastern partnership country to meet all the criteria of its visa liberalisation action plan, thus making its implementation possible. in addition, in recent years, moldova has made considerable efforts in the implementation of tough reforms and institution building process. the visa liberalisation action plan has followed a clear european perspective and is one of the most coherent elements of eu-moldova relations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the annexes to regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishing the list of third countries which are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. for moldovan citizens, a visa is no longer required to cross the borders of the european union. the country has made considerable efforts in the field of political and institutional reforms and, based on the principle of reciprocity, the fact that moldova has abolished the visa requirement for union citizens. i supported the proposal put forward by the european commission.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to amend the annexes to the regulation establishing the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement transfer of the republic of moldova from the negative list (annex i) to the positive list (annex ii). the legal basis for the common visa policy is article 77 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in view of the increasingly close relations between the eu and moldova, which are more than a partnership, but are geared towards gradual economic integration and improved trade relations, and in view of the deepening of political cooperation through the association agreement, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i know . the main objective of this report is to amend the annexes to regulation (ec) no 539/2001 which set out the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. the amendment proposed here is to transfer the republic of moldova from the negative list to the positive list. this visa waiver is due to the progress made by moldova in the last three and a half years in the visa liberalisation dialogue. it is recalled that in november 2013, at the vilnius eastern partnership summit, moldova initialled the association agreement with the eu, becoming the first eastern partnership country to meet all the criteria set out in the visa liberalisation action plan. this liberalisation brings benefits to moldovan citizens by reducing waiting time in front of consulates and the costs associated with travel to the schengen area. it also facilitates people-to-people contact, which is essential for stable economic, cultural and scientific links to be established.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the conclusion of the agreement with indonesia is an important step for the european union in its efforts to improve sustainable forest management worldwide, to put an end to deforestation and forest degradation and to stimulate systematic changes in the forestry sector by rewarding the efforts of diligent operators who source timber from legal and reliable sources and protecting them from unfair competition. first of all, it's the third largest tropical forest area in the world. this heritage is, however, threatened by the uncontrolled massive destruction of tropical forests and carbon-rich peatlands for palm oil and paper production, making indonesia the world's third largest emitter of greenhouse gases, which have an impact on climate change. however, only 10% in value of indonesian timber and timber products exports are currently destined for the european union, with the remainder being exported mainly to asian countries. i am very interested in the spillover effects that a sustainable indonesian forest governance system could have on timber exports to these markets as well.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used for the purpose of exploiting the resources of the developing countries. it is therefore necessary to ensure that products and raw materials from developing countries comply with the relevant rules and respect the environment and the rights of the people. in the case of imported wood products, it is necessary to ensure their traceability and the fairness of the way in which they are produced, treated and transported.
in writing. - the voluntary partnership agreement (the agreement) focuses on governance and enforcement and, through a licensing system, ensures that indonesia's timber is produced legally. this agreement represents a major commitment by indonesia to tackling the persistent problem of illegal logging. the flegt licence will ensure to the eu market that indonesian timber products come from verified legal sources. it is important that indonesia's timber resources be preserved. only with adequate legislation can the interests of the indonesian forestry sector be protected. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this recommendation concerns the proposal for the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) between the european union and the republic of indonesia on forestry law enforcement, governance and trade in timber products imported into the european union. this spa, concluded in september 2013, aims to establish a legal framework to meet the following main objectives: to ensure the traceability of timber products throughout the supply chain; to implement a process to verify and certify that timber products shipped to the eu have been legally acquired, harvested, transported and exported, ensuring proper management and legal exploitation of indonesian forests; to strengthen the validity of the european union action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt). i believe that the conclusion of this gpa is another step in the eu's efforts towards sustainable forest management on a global scale, helping to reduce deforestation, stimulating change of practices in the forestry sector and rewarding and protecting operators who purchase timber from legal and reliable sources from unfair competition, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the voluntary partnership agreement between the republic of indonesia and the european union aims to establish a legal framework to ensure the traceability of wood products, implement a verification process to certify products shipped to the european market, ensure good management and legal exploitation of indonesian forests and strengthen the eu action plan for forest law enforcement, governance and trade. it is an important step towards improving sustainable forest management worldwide and ending deforestation. indonesia is the third largest tropical forest territory in the world and is under great threat from the massive destruction of its forests and peatlands. the rapporteur has serious concerns about the indonesian timber legality assurance system (tlas). the system does not require the separation of tlas-certified and non-certified wood, impeding legal certainty on exit, a problem exacerbated by the fact that tlas auditors do not necessarily audit all stages of the supply chain. the tlas constitutes a bureaucratic barrier to justice and it is therefore necessary to eliminate the gaps found.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the holders of documents issued by those member states applying the schengen acquis in full, as well as documents issued by cyprus, do not represent any risk for croatia, because they have already been subjected to all the necessary checks by those countries. in order to avoid imposing an unnecessary administrative burden on croatia, common rules should be adopted authorising croatia to recognise unilaterally certain documents issued by those member states as equivalent to its national visas and to establish a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on that unilateral equivalence.
in writing. - i know . the member states have committed themselves to better managing controls at the union's external borders in order to combat effectively terrorism, illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. on 1 july 2013, croatia acceded to the european union. as in previous enlargements, croatia has been subject to a two-stage procedure for the implementation of the schengen acquis. in addition, national visas issued by other eu member states, which do not yet belong to the schengen area (cyprus), are also not valid for the territory of croatia. the present proposal, for which i voted in favour, is intended to introduce an optional regime based on common rules, which would allow croatia, on a provisional basis until the schengen acquis has been fully applied, to recognise unilaterally as equivalent to its national visas uniform visas, long-stay visas and residence permits issued by schengen states, as well as similar documents issued by member states which do not yet apply the schengen acquis in full (cyprus).
in writing. - the need to adopt a simplified system for the control of persons at the external borders and the need to adopt common rules allowing croatia to unilaterally recognise certain documents as equivalent to its national visas for transit or for intended stays on its territory not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this document establishes a simplified regime for the control of persons and external borders with respect to croatia and cyprus by recognising certain documents as equivalent to national visas for the purpose of transit or stay in their territories of up to 90 days. thus, holders of documents issued by member states applying the schengen acquis in full are admitted. i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, and i am of the opinion, firstly, that as regards the transfer of the list of certain caribbean island states and certain pacific island states, that the imposition of the visa requirement is no longer justified. these countries do not pose any risk of illegal immigration to the public policy and security of the member states of the european union. i also support the transfer of these countries, since the low level of consular representation of the member states in these third countries is an obstacle, since their citizens are obliged to apply for schengen visas abroad, which involves significant costs and sometimes implies having to obtain a visa to cross the external borders.
in writing. - the revision of regulation (ec) no 539/2001, which lists the third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders and the third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement, is of great relevance in the context of the common visa policy. this assessment should be made on a case-by-case basis, based on a variety of criteria such as public policy and security, and on the principle of reciprocity.
in writing. - the european commission's proposal is to update regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishing the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states (the 'negative list') and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (the 'positive list'). given that the conditions of the third countries concerned evolve over time, it is imperative to regularly review the composition of their positive and negative lists. in this context, the commission proposal moved moldova from the negative list to the positive list for complying with the transitional procedures, and also proposed to lift the visa requirement for all british citizens who are not nationals of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, and to include south sudan in the negative list which requires its citizens to present visas. in agreeing with the measures proposed to update this regulation, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - this report updates regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishing the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the borders of the member states and the list of those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. it is therefore proposed to lift the visa requirement for nationals of the following caribbean and pacific island states: dominica, grenada, kiribati, marshall islands, micronesia, nauru, palau, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines, solomon islands, samoa, east timor, tonga, trinidad and tobago, tuvalu and vanuatu. it is also proposed that the visa requirement be abolished for all british citizens who are not nationals of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland within the meaning of union law. this is a proposal which guarantees closer contacts between people and gives substance to the principle of free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights of the eu, and i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, beginning by strongly condemning the brutal and disproportionate actions by the riot police, notably berkut and others, which have resulted in a dramatic escalation of violence. i am also sorry for the loss of life and injuries suffered on all sides and express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims. i also warn that any further escalation of violence would be disastrous for the ukrainian nation and would be likely to compromise the unity and territorial integrity of the country. i stress that it is of paramount importance at this time that all parties demonstrate responsibility, restraint and commitment to an inclusive political dialogue and refrain from extrajudicial retaliation. i also appeal to all political forces to join forces at this critical moment in ukraine and to find compromise solutions, clearly distancing themselves from extremism and refraining from provocative attitudes and acts of violence that could fuel separatist tendencies.
in writing. - i hope that russia will stop interfering in ukrainian territory and that ukraine will be able to decide freely on its future, taking into account the specificities, affinities and historical links of the peoples that make up the country. the situation is highly worrying and volatile. the special geostrategic interest that the crimean peninsula has always held for russia is well known, and the way in which its relations with ukraine have been subject to tensions, each time that this country has shown that it intends to approach the european union in a more consistent and lasting way. the tension in the streets of kiev and other ukrainian towns and the brutal violence that followed reflect the discredit of president yanukovych's government and the discontent of much of the population after the refusal to sign the association agreement with the european union. i remember those who died for democracy and freedom, particularly in maidan square. i hope that the solution to this serious problem will be based on respect for the territorial integrity of ukraine and that the country can safely hold free and fair elections which will make it possible to clarify the real will of its people as to the course to be taken.
in writing. the demonstrations that began more than two months ago, following president viktor yanukovych's decision not to sign the association agreement with the eu, continue to take place in the capital, with discontent spreading to other cities, including eastern regions of ukraine. the popular uprising in ukraine has reached most regions, with the administrations of these regions under popular control. the deaths in kiev's independence square have further aggravated the situation. all ukrainian officials must contribute to the start of the truce: otherwise the ukrainian situation could turn into a tragedy. the eu must continue to support the ukrainians in their fight to be able to choose their trading partners. this is not a fight against anyone, but only for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the ukrainian people. russia must not intervene in this conflict, or else the situation will become even more dangerous for all, to the point of starting a war that would be tragic for europe and the world.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the resolution adopted today on ukraine for two fundamental reasons: (a) i consider it rash, if not irresponsible, to refer to paragraph 13 on the union's readiness to sign the association agreement (which includes an ambitious trade liberalization agreement) with the new government, knowing that it is a provisional government, emerging from an insurrection, without the necessary political legitimacy and knowing that the country has no conditions to implement the agreement, nor will it have any in the near future; the ep must not so lightly compromise the interests of the union; (b) i consider the opening in paragraph 22 for ukraine's accession to the union to be politically illusory, if not frivolous, knowing that, regardless of other considerations, ukraine does not meet, nor is it expected to meet within a foreseeable time, any of the copenhagen criteria for eu membership (from respect for human rights to the existence of a market economy); the ep must not commit itself to misleading promises, which can only generate misunderstandings and then resentment.
in writing. - since the decision of the president and government of ukraine to suspend the signing of the association agreement with the european union, hundreds of thousands of people have spontaneously taken to the streets across the country to demonstrate in favour of european integration and to call for a major political change that will lead the government to reconsider its position. during this period, the ukrainian authorities clearly broke the law by allowing security forces to use live ammunition against protesters and by using snipers, and numerous protesters and bystanders were executed in the streets of kiev, sparking international condemnation and repudiation. in this context, the european union decided to impose targeted sanctions, including asset freezes and visa bans, on those responsible for the use of excessive force and human rights violations. i believe that this document pays a fitting tribute to those who fought and died for european values, strongly condemns all acts of violence and calls on the ukrainian citizens to act with the greatest responsibility at this historic and critical moment for ukraine, so i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the situation in ukraine is too worrying and requires the union to take a united position, which supports the civil society movements that are against foreign interference, in particular the maidan movement. i welcome the imposition of targeted sanctions, including asset freezes and visa bans, on those responsible for violations of fundamental rights and the use of excessive force against peaceful protesters, as well as the suspension of export licences for equipment that could be used to increase repression. i am appalled by russia's actions in the autonomous region of crimea, a territory that is part of ukraine. these actions are clearly against the united nations charter and should not be accepted by the international community. it is therefore necessary that the multilateral system and the organisations involved assume their responsibilities in defending the sovereignty of the ukrainian state. the will of the people must not be underestimated and the union must therefore support it through the instruments at its disposal, including financial support. the ukrainian people must know that they have the support of the union for the creation of a genuine rule of law.
in writing. - the content of this resolution shows the increasingly anti-democratic character of the right-wing and social-democratic majority in the ep, its total disregard for national sovereignty and the right of peoples to self-determination and development, its interference as a fundamental weapon of its policy, its disregard for international law and the un charter, despite the hypocritical and self-serving invocation of these principles. it is necessary to denounce and condemn the coup d'état carried out by the most reactionary sectors of the ukrainian oligarchy, with the support of imperialism, which was unleashed after the announcement of the suspension of the signing of the association agreement with the eu last november. in the face of this refusal, the eu - with a major role played by meps in the majority of the ep - the us and nato have launched a brutal intervention and destabilisation of the internal situation in ukraine, promoting and supporting the extreme right-wing, neo-nazi and xenophobic forces and encouraging the exacerbation of tensions, divisions and schisms, aiming at securing the political, economic and military dominance of this huge country, in order to advance in its escalation of tension and strategy of confrontation with the russian federation, a reality that represents an increased threat to security and peace in europe and the world.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, taking into account that iraq continues to face serious political, socioeconomic and security challenges and that the political scene in the country is extremely fragmented and undermined by violence and sectarian politics, to the great detriment of the legitimate aspirations of the iraqi people for peace, prosperity and a genuine transition to democracy. in addition, it is necessary to take into account the fact that iraq is facing the most serious wave of violence since 2008.
in the light of the recent events in the region, the commission has decided to extend the community support for the reconstruction of the region to the countries of the former yugoslavia. we are still far from the stabilization of the country and the rebuilding of a secure and prosperous country, as is the desire not only of the majority of its population but of the international community itself. i hope that we can all help to combat the radicalism and indiscriminate violence in that country and that iraq can return to the normalcy that has long been missing. the constant acts of terrorism, the displacement of fleeing populations and the inability of the state to provide and anticipate the needs of its people are of concern. the international community, and in particular the european union, should actively contribute to the reconstruction of the iraqi state and the strengthening of its civil society.
in the light of the recent events in iraq, the commission is proposing that the council and the european parliament should take the necessary steps to ensure that the iraqi government is able to meet its obligations under the new constitution. the country is extremely fragmented and undermined by violence and sectarian politics, to the great detriment of the legitimate aspirations of the iraqi people for peace, prosperity and a genuine transition to democracy. right now, iraq is facing the worst wave of violence since 2008. i must condemn the recent acts of terrorism and the escalation of sectarian violence, which increase the risk of the country being dragged back into sectarian conflict and are generating fears of a wider sectarian conflict throughout the region. the international community must join forces to end these conflicts and put iraq back on the path to democracy. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the present joint motion for a resolution on the situation in iraq stresses that the country continues to face serious political, socioeconomic and security challenges and that the national political landscape is extremely fragmented and affected by violence and sectarian movements, to the great detriment of the legitimate aspirations of the iraqi people for peace, prosperity and a genuine transition to democracy. the civil war in syria has also worsened the situation in iraq, with various extremist militant groups increasing their activity in iraq. in this complex context, a large part of the population continues to suffer from serious social and economic problems, including widespread poverty, high unemployment, economic stagnation, environmental degradation and lack of basic public services. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i agree with the measures proposed in this document and because i support the european union's efforts to help iraq to promote democracy, fair, sound governance and respect for human rights.
in writing. - in expressing concern about sectarian violence and acts of terrorism - a concern which we share - the majority resolution omits facts of the greatest relevance in explaining what is happening in iraq, without which it will not be possible to help find solutions to the country's problems. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. it continues to whitewash the use of prohibited weapons with devastating consequences, as attested to by independent scientific studies, in particular those which have focused on the city of fallujah. there will be no solution for iraq without the return to its people of their sovereignty, which is still being denied them, particularly over their natural resources; nor the official withdrawal of us troops, since the us keeps on the ground some 15 000 troops and thousands of mercenaries paid by the big companies exploiting iraqi natural resources, particularly oil.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, beginning by urging the council to adopt a common european union position on the use of armed drones. i also believe that the european union should promote greater transparency and accountability of third countries in the use of armed drones in terms of the legal basis used and operational responsibility, to enable judicial control of drone attacks and to ensure that victims of illegal drone attacks have effective access to redress. i am also in favour of human rights impact assessments for future drone development projects.
in writing. - the misuse of drones has caused too many injuries and deaths to defenseless civilians and in areas without any conflict. it is necessary to make it compulsory that this type of aircraft can only be used in conflict zones in order to prevent further accidents against defenseless persons. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (drones), as they represent an important contribution to the european civil and military spheres as security and counter-terrorism mechanisms, as well as surveillance and also, for example, the distribution of goods for humanitarian aid. the resolution also calls on the member states to take particular account of international law and that any use must be consistent with european and international standards.
in writing. - i know . the text signed by the majority of the european parliament promotes the whitewashing of the role of the military powers who possess these technologies, particularly the usa - whose assassination lists are approved in advance at the highest level of the us administration, of their quest for intimidation and domination of countries and peoples and of the impunity with which they have killed thousands of people. in the face of the murder of supposed enemies and (many) innocents, the text now approved is limited to the seizure, not condemning - and assassinations require condemnation - the daily use of these unmanned devices in several countries, technologies whose fundamental vocation is to kill and destroy infrastructure, having nothing to do with any defense of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the people and the country that hold these armed drones. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances. for our part, we continue to defend a peaceful solution, the responsibility of the sovereign judicial institutions of each country and the presumption of innocence and never murder as a form of justice. for these reasons we voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by stressing the need for common horizontal legislation on combating discrimination in order to eliminate obstacles to free movement. i call on the council to put an end to its blocking of the commission's proposal. i also note that the troika has pushed the programme countries into a deep recession by exerting pressure to freeze wages. i would stress that the autonomy of the social partners must always be protected and promoted in accordance with the treaty. in this respect, i recall the resolution on a european union strategy for the homeless, calling on the european union agency for fundamental rights to intensify its work on the implications of extreme poverty and social exclusion in terms of access to and enjoyment of fundamental rights, taking into account that the exercise of the right to social assistance and housing assistance is a necessary condition for the enjoyment of a whole range of other rights, including political and social rights.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the application of the principle of subsidiarity should be extended to all the member states. it is our duty to position the union as a community that protects fundamental rights, both internally and externally.
in writing. - respect for and promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the values and principles enshrined in the eu treaties and international human rights instruments must be at the heart of the european construction. considering that there are still a number of violations of fundamental rights in the european union and the member states, as indicated in the (annual and specific) reports of the european commission, the fra, the council of europe (annual reports and decisions of the european court of human rights, documents and reports of the commissioner for human rights, documents of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe) which, due to their gravity and recurrence, require appropriate responses from the commission, the council and the member states, i voted in favour of the abovementioned european parliament resolution.
the european union is more than a geographical reality that has become an economic, political and social project. it is the realization of an ancient human ideal of peace, respect for the unconditional dignity of the person and the building of a community of values, including human rights and democracy. this culture of human rights has been fundamental at home, especially in the process of enlargement of the european union, and also at home, in the context of international relations. reiterating and reinforcing these values and the european union's commitment to them requires my support.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is therefore necessary to recognise the existence of obligations with regard to the protection and promotion of human rights. the policies of the european institutions and the member states must first prevent violations of fundamental rights from occurring, either through prevention mechanisms or through the adoption of measures. the rapporteur also suggests that the commission and the council, together with the european parliament, set up a contact group to monitor the effective implementation of european values. however, it is impossible not to express concern at the cases of violation of human dignity that still persist in the eu and in some of the member states, with particular attention to minorities roma, asylum seekers, migrants, among others.
in writing. - it is a long document on the eu's fundamental rights in 2012 and deplores various violations of these rights, such as cia operations, nsa-prisma programs, attacks and discrimination against roma, immigrants, asylum seekers, among other timely concerns. however, there is deafening silence on the fundamental rights violated by the implementation of the memoranda and the troika's (ecb, ec and imf) interventions in countries like portugal which see the rights of workers and pensioners, their wages and pensions, violated in the destruction of public services, in particular in health (with thousands of people being denied access to treatment essential to their survival, causing their premature death) and education, deepening inequalities and social injustices. the eu charter of fundamental rights, referred to on several occasions, is for some countries the minimum guarantee of rights; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by recalling that since it was introduced it has allowed for a more efficient mechanism, which ensures that the opening of borders is not taken advantage of by those seeking to escape justice. at the same time, a faster delivery means that suspects and accused persons should not be held for long periods of time while awaiting extradition. the european commission presented three reports on the implementation of the edd qd, considering the operational implementation of the edd as successful overall, in particular as regards the reduction of extradition delays (from an average of one year before the edd to around 15 days with consent and around 50 days without consent under the edd). however, despite an overall positive assessment, the three european commission reports on the implementation of the 2002 framework decision reveal imperfections in the functioning of the system.
in writing. - since its introduction in 2004, the european commission has presented three reports on the implementation of the european arrest warrant, which consider its operational implementation to be successful despite revealing imperfections in the functioning of the system. i believe that the recommendations to the commission can make it more effective and fill in some of its gaps. i hope that this will be the case and that this instrument will make it possible to increase cooperation between member states in the field of criminal justice.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's resolution which makes recommendations to the commission on the revision of the european arrest warrant, which is essential for the establishment of an effective area of freedom, security and justice. detecting failures and correcting procedures is key to ensuring rights and mechanisms that allow for the effective delivery of justice and the fight against cross-border crime.
in writing. - non-binding legal measures, including the european manual for the issue of the european arrest warrant (emaw), are a useful, albeit insufficient, tool for solving all the problems associated with detention orders. in this regard, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to adopt legislative measures at eu level to improve the way the edm operates, as well as other instruments to ensure a better balance in the eu criminal justice area.
in writing. - the european arrest warrant (eaw) is an eu legal instrument based on the principle of mutual recognition, under which judicial decisions are executed on the basis of mutual trust. this makes bringing suspects and accused persons to justice easier and faster. however, the three european commission reports on the 2002 framework decision on the european arrest warrant show some imperfections in the system: missed deadlines and the incomplete and unbalanced nature of the european union's criminal justice area. legislative action at european level is therefore needed to reform the way the edm and other mutual recognition instruments operate. the edm requires mutual trust to ensure a better balance in the criminal justice area of the european union, and that is why i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, starting by welcoming the enormous efforts voluntarily made by indonesia to address uncontrolled illegal logging and related trade through the development of its svlk, through a multi-stakeholder process and, in particular, the considerable progress made in recent months. i remain, however, concerned about certain problems. i would remind you that in order to formally issue flegt licences, the svlk must be operational in order to achieve the objectives of the agreement. i welcome the outcome of the negotiations on the agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia on forestry law enforcement, governance and trade in timber products imported into the european union and reiterate my support for the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - i congratulate indonesia and the european union for having addressed these issues through a voluntary partnership agreement on them. i hope that the same can be done, thus contributing to the preservation of the richness and biodiversity of indonesian forests.
in writing. - the voluntary partnership agreement (the agreement) focuses on governance and enforcement and, through a licensing system, ensures that indonesia's timber is produced legally. this agreement represents a major commitment by indonesia to tackling the persistent problem of illegal logging. the flegt licence will ensure to the eu market that indonesian timber products come from verified legal sources. it is important that indonesia's timber resources be preserved. only with adequate legislation can the interests of the indonesian forestry sector be protected. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the present motion for a resolution, tabled on behalf of the committee on international trade, follows the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) between the european union and the republic of indonesia on the enforcement of the laws, governance and trade in the forestry sector in respect of timber products imported into the european union (flegt). the vpa, signed on 30 september 2013, confirms the mutual commitment to ensure that timber imported into the eu is produced, harvested and shipped legally, aiming to end deforestation and forest degradation, eradicate illegal logging and promote sustainable forest management. among other measures, it calls for the origin of wood to be guaranteed and the chain of production to be controlled at all times, including the right of timber companies to cut trees, the separate keeping of certified and non-certified timber products and the minimisation of the conversion of natural forests, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, beginning by condemning all acts of violence and the tragic loss of life during the peaceful demonstrations of 12 february 2014 and subsequent days, and i express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims. i also express my deep solidarity with the venezuelan people and their concern that further protests could lead to further acts of violence, which would only widen the gap between the positions of the government and the opposition and further polarize the delicate political situation in venezuela. i therefore urge the representatives of all parties and sectors of venezuelan society to remain calm, both in their behaviour and in their statements. i remind the venezuelan government that freedom of expression and the right to participate in peaceful demonstrations are fundamental human rights in any democracy, as recognized in the venezuelan constitution.
in writing. - the present joint motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela deals with the seriousness of the current situation in that country, referring to problems of high inflation, crime and shortages of certain products, as well as increasing corruption and intimidation of the democratic opposition and the media. in this context, peaceful student-led marches across venezuela have turned into deadly violence, leaving dozens dead and injured and hundreds in detention. this type of demonstration has been increasing, leading to an increase in the number of people killed, injured and detained as a result of the repression of protests by the state authorities and illegal armed groups. against this backdrop, political tension and polarization are increasing in venezuela, and the venezuelan authorities, instead of contributing to the maintenance of peace and calm, have threatened to lead an armed revolution. among other proposed measures, this document encourages the parties to the conflict, particularly the venezuelan authorities, to engage in a peaceful dialogue involving all segments of society, with a view to identifying points of convergence and allowing political actors to discuss the serious problems facing the country, which is why i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i consider that it expresses a clear and unequivocal message on the current situation in venezuela. in this text, parliament condemns all acts of violence and the tragic loss of life during the peaceful demonstrations of 12 february 2014 and subsequent days, sends its condolences to the families of the victims, and expresses its solidarity with the venezuelan people and their concern that further protests could lead to further acts of violence. it also reminded the venezuelan government that freedom of expression and the right to participate in peaceful demonstrations are fundamental human rights in any democracy, as recognised in the venezuelan constitution, and called on president maduro to respect the international treaties to which venezuela is a contracting party and in particular the inter-american democratic charter.
the majority of the ep is resorting to the most brazen manipulation of venezuelan reality, presenting the coup de l'état as peaceful demonstrations, the attempts at destabilisation and their promoters and participants, the far-right and fascists, as peaceful activists and democratic opposition, and the acts of violence and murder perpetrated by them as the responsibility of the country's authorities, thus demonstrating their complicity and collusion with the promoters of the coup d'état and their supporters, particularly from the usa. they try to present the acts of coup violence of the oligarchic opposition the same one that monopolized for decades the use of the country's natural resources and handed them over to imperialism, its attack on the democratic rights of venezuelans and the exercise of its sovereignty as the exercise of fundamental rights. the majority of meps are promoting interference in venezuela's internal affairs, siding with the coup opposition, despite the people's support for the bolivarian process. the hypocrisy of the right wing and social democracy in the ep goes so far as to present lies and gross media manipulation including the use of staged and photographed repression in countries such as egypt and syria or acts of violence by the opposition itself as freedom of the press.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, firstly by welcoming the progress made on the visa acquis, but also by calling on the commission and the member states to improve the application of the current visa acquis. i call in particular for enhanced local schengen cooperation in order to improve the implementation of the short-stay visa code. i also believe that in the future steps should be taken to further harmonise visa procedures, including genuine common rules for issuing visas.
in writing. - i welcome the progress made on the visa acquis. however, i think that the commission and the member states should be required to make efforts to improve the current application of the visa acquis. the implementation and development of a common visa policy could foster growth in the eu by facilitating travel opportunities for third country nationals wishing to visit the eu.
in writing. - the present motion for a resolution, tabled on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, concerns the future of the european union's common visa policy, which results from the abolition of internal border controls within the schengen area. given that the lisbon treaty provides for the use of the ordinary legislative procedure in all aspects of the common visa policy and for the approval by parliament of all international agreements in this field, it is appropriate to initiate reflection and interinstitutional debate on the future of the common visa policy of the european union, in particular as regards the measures necessary for further harmonisation of visa procedures, including common rules for issuing visas. this process requires discussion on the balance between greater visa liberalisation and the requests made by some member states for increased security measures and stricter border controls for visa-exempt travellers. i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it to be an important contribution to the future of the common visa policy of the european union.
in writing. - the common visa policy is mainly composed of the common lists of countries whose citizens are subject to or exempt from the visa requirement, the common rules on the issuing of visas in accordance with the visa code, the uniform format of visas, the exchange of information through the visa information system, among other international agreements with third countries. however, steps are still needed to further harmonise visa procedures, such as a revision of the visa code. further agreements should be concluded with a view to facilitating the issuance of visas, as well as monitoring and improving existing agreements. the updates of the lists of third countries whose nationals are or are not subject to the visa requirement under regulation (ec) no 539/2001 and the update of the visa waiver criteria to include criteria relating to fundamental rights are welcomed.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with the report on small-scale coastal fishing, artisanal fishing and the reform of the common fisheries policy, which contains extremely important concepts for the role of women in fishing, relating to the improvement of social and labour conditions and their economic, social and cultural role, and the general communication on the reform of the common fisheries policy. the latter stressed the need for greater legal and social recognition of the work of women in the fishing industry and the importance of their work and role in the family economy, including de facto unions. however, despite the socioeconomic importance of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, the principle of equal conditions for women in access to fisheries-related work is rarely specifically mentioned in fisheries plans, programmes and legislation.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is urgent to ensure equality between women and men, to ensure that the working conditions in the sector are attractive for future generations and to recognise its contribution to the sustainable development of fisheries. in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy and the new maritime and fisheries fund, member states should achieve the support, guidance, plans and training programmes, as well as the recognition and equal rights, that are necessary to ensure a better and more stable future for women working in the fisheries sector. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - despite the socioeconomic importance of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, the principle of equal conditions for women in access to fisheries-related work is rarely specifically mentioned in fisheries plans, programmes and legislation. women's work in the fishing and related activities sector is increasingly carried out invisibly, as a complement to their partners' work, in an increasingly harsh economic environment for family farms. women in this situation have no fixed salary or social benefits. added to this is the fact that this activity is the only means of subsistence for some women. it is therefore necessary to regularise their working conditions and ensure equality between women and men, to ensure that working conditions in the sector are attractive for future generations and to recognise their contribution to the sustainable development of fisheries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on specific measures under the common fisheries policy to improve the role of women. over 100 000 women work in the fishing industry, of whom 4% in the catching sector and in activities related to fishing boats, 30% in the aquaculture sector, mainly in the catch of shellfish on foot, and about 60% in the processing industry. the arduous nature of the work required requires measures to support the activities associated with fishing, both in production and in processing and marketing.
in writing. - this report aims to consolidate the recognition and reinforce the recommendations of the committees on fisheries and women's rights and gender equality on the socioeconomic role of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the work carried out by women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector is not properly recognised and remains largely invisible, although it creates significant added value and contributes to the cultural identity and economic and social sustainability of coastal communities, particularly in areas heavily dependent on fishing. it is also urgent to recognise the contribution of women in activities related to the fisheries, shellfish and aquaculture sectors, in particular in the processing, processing and marketing of fish. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteurs' proposals and consider that the various amendments introduced in the document contribute to the recognition and appreciation of the role of women in these sectors, reinforcing the need for measures in the areas of social and occupational protection, vocational training and promotion, participation in women's associations and their networking, and intervention at the level of advisory councils.
in writing. - this document concerns the socioeconomic role of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. however, the principle of equal opportunities for women in fisheries-related jobs is rarely mentioned in the plans, programmes and legislation. women's work in this sector is increasingly carried out invisibly, seen as complementary to the work of their partners. women in this situation have no fixed salary or social benefits, and for many this is the only means of subsistence they have. it should be noted that women and young people are the people most affected by the current recession and economic crisis, and they are the first to face a reduction in employment opportunities, pay and working conditions. the new common fisheries policy must guarantee the principle of equality and the historical recognition of the socioeconomic role of women. it is also necessary to promote women's associations in the fisheries and aquaculture sector in order to promote a greater presence, confidence and recognition of their work.
in writing. - this is a joint initiative report by the femm and pech committees which examines the problems faced by women in the fishing industry and proposes recommendations for the common fisheries policy. the contribution of women working in the fishing industry is often invisible and there are rarely jobs available. it stressed that the main roles played by women in fisheries were linked to the improvement of social and working conditions, as well as to economic, social and cultural matters. it considers that the collection and analysis of statistical data on employment in the fisheries sector, broken down by sex, type of activity and type of employment (women entrepreneurs, part-time, full-time, occasional) should be improved in order to calculate the contribution of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. for example, it calls on member states to ensure that women are supported by providing them with unemployment benefits when they are forced to stop working (temporarily or permanently), the right to a pension, work-life balance, access to maternity leave (regardless of marital status), access to social security and free health care and protection against the risks of working in the maritime and fisheries sectors. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, even in the digital age, it is necessary to maintain the author's right to the protection of his creative work and the right to adequate remuneration for this work. in addition, it should be taken into account that, due to technical progress and the move to the internet and cloud computing, the economic importance of digital copies for private use has increased and that the existing system of fees for private copies does not take due account of the evolution in the digital age. considering that there is currently no alternative model in this area that ensures adequate compensation for rightholders while allowing copying for private use, it is appropriate to have a debate with a view to updating the private copying mechanism to make it more effective and take greater account of technical progress.
in writing. - this report deals with the issue of charges for private copying. the commission should also be able to provide information on the costs of the activities of the european cultural foundation, including the costs of the european cultural foundation, the european cultural foundation and the european cultural foundation. the emergence of new distribution channels facilitates the access to and circulation of works and culture globally and provides new opportunities for creators and artists. but even in the digital age, it is necessary to maintain the right of the author to protect his creative output and to enjoy an adequate remuneration for that output. the report addresses a number of highly relevant aspects in this area, such as transparency in the distribution of revenues, technical protection measures, licensing and innovative business models in the digital environment. private copying fee schemes exist in 23 of the 28 member states and are the usual method for rightholders to obtain compensation for the use of their works, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the cultural sector represents 5 million jobs and 2.6% of the european union's gdp. it is therefore urgent to harmonise certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society in order to facilitate access to cultural and creative content with a view to increasing its global circulation. the disparities between the various national systems for charging fees and the types of products subject to them give rise to some distortions of competition. it is also urgent to clarify the definition of private copying and to define that the user should be able to access copyrighted content on all media on the basis of a single payment. member states should join efforts to ensure greater transparency in the process of distributing the revenue from the private copying levy and should set aside a minimum of 25% of this amount to support the live performance and production sectors.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this date is not just a coincidence. it was on march 8, 1857, that a heroic struggle of new york textile workers took place, a struggle for the reduction of the working day from 16 hours to 10, a struggle that was brutally suppressed by the police. that is why the german communist clara zetkin proposed its institution in 1910. as we celebrate the 104th anniversary of this day, it is urgent to look at the real reality of the lives of many women in the european union and, above all, in the countries of the economic periphery and in those countries where the troika has stolen not only the incomes, wages and pensions of their populations, but also the dreams of many women, their right to emancipation and autonomy, denying values that we all claim to share: equality between men and women. we all know that a woman without economic independence is more vulnerable in many areas of life, often more vulnerable to violence, a subject which the european parliament has chosen to discuss this year. but that is precisely the situation in which unemployment, or precarious parttime work, in which one third of women in the european union are employed, places them: in a vulnerable situation. we all say that it is necessary to reconcile work and family life and private life, but the proliferation of so-called flexible working relationships in which women take turns every day or every week, in addition to the increase in working hours, as happened in my country, in practice prevents this reconciliation. we all say that equal pay is important, but studies confirm that in the countries affected by the troika and because of the changes in labour laws that the european commission itself agreed with governments, the number of collective agreements has decreased exponentially. do you know that working with rights, that collectively negotiated contracts are the best way to guarantee equal pay? do you think it is acceptable that women in the european union have to work 59 days more to earn the same as men? we all agree that sexual and reproductive health is a women's right, but is cutting public health services, cutting public health investment, helping to guarantee that right? certainly not. we all agree that women should live with dignity, but more women, 26% in the european union, than men are at risk of poverty. it is the women who are bravely facing the sad reality of the growing child poverty. you just have to go to school to understand this phenomenon of child poverty, of children going to school without eating. probably, the cuts in wages, the layoffs, the cuts in social functions of the state, in public services, in social supports did not contribute to the fact that women lived with dignity. those who confront reality will see that reality no matter how much they try to ignore it. the european commission's own 2012 study on gender equality, on which this report is based, does indeed show that, due to the measures chosen to supposedly deal with the crisis, we are unfortunately facing a setback in the level of equal rights between men and women. it would be logical for the european commission to look at the results of the studies it has itself commissioned and to change the direction of its policies accordingly. the fight for equality is not measured in words or declarations of intent, but in concrete actions across various policy areas. we are confident and convinced that women will continue to fight for equality with courage.
on behalf of the s&d group. despite progress in recent decades, many inequalities persist: inequalities in access to the labour market and career progression, wage inequalities, inequalities in access to education and health and in participation in decision-making processes, both in the economic sector and in political activity. with the crisis and because of austerity, the situation of european women has deteriorated, especially in countries under adjustment programmes. it has increased unemployment, widened the wage gap and increased domestic violence. in addition, it is clear that the most conservative forces in europe are taking advantage of the crisis to reduce women's rights. we are seeing, for example, in spain a clear retreat in respect of such achievements of civilisation as the right to legal and safe abortion. the reconciliation of work and private life remains one of the main obstacles to women's professional fulfilment and economic independence. sharing family and domestic responsibilities and the value of parental and paternity leave are indispensable conditions for equality between men and women. i am rapporteur for the european parliament's position on the revision of the maternity leave directive which the council has blocked since 2010. how will citizens trust the european institutions and believe that concerns about population decline are genuine?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. as i said, there are many discriminations, there are many inequalities that persist, even today, and there are also the stereotypes that are present in society. we must fight stereotypes, we must fight inequalities and discrimination. and there are fewer women entrepreneurs precisely because they have more difficulty accessing credit: it's not because they lack capacity, it's not because they lack competence, it's not because they are not entrepreneurs, they have more difficulty accessing credit and they have more difficulty having the resources to start their own business. but when women are at the head of companies, those companies have had good results and have increased their share price, including on the stock exchange.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, women's rights and equal opportunities remain an unfulfilled ambition. the report now under discussion is a wake-up call for further progress, but the form chosen by the rapporteur is not without controversy. the approach proposed by the european people's party is more balanced and fairly directed towards the issues of equal pay, reconciliation of family and working life and the fight against violence against women. unfortunately, younger women are more educated than men, but this does not mean that they are better represented and have a fair and balanced representation in economic decision-making processes. on the contrary, women continue to be in the majority in precarious jobs. i would like to highlight one inequality among many that harm women and shame our society: the persistence of a pay gap of over 16%, which represents 60 days of unpaid work for women, and the inequality in career advancement, which cannot be tolerated in 21st century europe. the reconciliation of work and family life is an essential condition for removing the obstacles faced by women in accessing the labour market and for gender equality to become a reality.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have insisted that much has been done, but also that so much remains to be done. it is true that the crisis has not helped women to develop further but has rather weakened the weakest part of our workforce. concerning specific issues, i would like to thank those members who have emphasised the great effort that has been made in recent years to combat – in a concrete way and in places where we can legislate – violence against women and to create directives that would help those who have become victims of such violence. concerning the equal pay directive, you might remember that in december[nbsp ]2013 the commission adopted a report on the implementation of this directive in real terms. the findings of this report indicate that the main challenge for the member states is the correct application and enforcement of rights in this directive. it is therefore the practical application of the directive and the way it is applied in real terms in the member states that needs to be changed, not the directive itself. one of the main findings of the report is that the implementation of the principle is hindered mostly by the lack of transparency in pay systems. that is the reason why we have presented the recommendation: in order to strengthen this principle of transparency. the measures include the entitlement of employees to request information on levels of pay broken down by gender for categories of employees doing the same work or work of equal value; the employer’s regular reporting of wages by category of employee or position, broken down by gender – this would, of course, be limited to large and medium companies, because we do not wish to be hard on smes; conducting pay audits in large companies; and, most importantly, including equal pay issues and pay audits in collective bargaining. if this were to be implemented in accordance with the report which we have seen, it would help the equal pay directive to be implemented in a more transparent way in real life. i would like to thank all the members for their strong commitment to promoting equality between women and men. over the last few years, the combination of gender mainstreaming with specific measures to promote gender equality have borne fruit. we have achieved a great deal and we should continue with this dual approach in the future. we should also take on the main challenges still to be faced, which are laid out in the parliament’s reports and the amendments.
i would like to make a comment first. there have been several members who have considered my report ideological. the point is, that's not an accusation. you can't make an accusation of being ideological because all political positions, all political decisions are ideological. they're just from different ideologies. we can say, well, i don't like your ideology. but we can't accuse them of being ideological because that's something that's intrinsic to political activity and there's not some here that are ideological and some that are neutral or natural or whatever. as regards the resolution proposed by the ppe, i confess that i do not quite understand what problems they have with paragraphs in the report. i think it's obvious that poverty is also associated with decreased social support, that's been studied. i think it is obvious that situations of flexibility which do not allow for the organization and stability of family life must be rejected. i think it is obvious that we must affirm the principle of equal pay for equal work, and the idea of equal pay is also a fundamental idea. i think it is obvious that governments and employers have to respect women's rights to be mothers without loss of labour rights. i think it is obvious that the economic crisis has fostered a number of violent phenomena. i think it is obvious that we must increase the number of free public health services for women who are victims of violence. the report which you are about to read is based on a report by the european commission itself, which considers that the question of employment and the crisis is the most important factor in the development of gender equality between men and women today, and therefore focuses on these aspects. we are merely commenting on this report. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the presentation of this report and i hope that there will be a report which...
what is really important to talk about today is the impact of the commission's proposal on food sovereignty, understood as the right of each nation to maintain and develop its food, taking into account cultural and productive diversity, as proposed by the peasantry. food sovereignty means deciding what to eat but also what to grow, that is, having access to land, water and seeds, and also price controls. food sovereignty is a way to fight poverty. it is therefore a fundamental human right. the proposal for mandatory registration and certification would lead to many of the traditional varieties being overlooked in favour of a few commercial varieties, favouring monocultures, which only benefits a small group of agribusiness companies, protected by the world trade organisation. commissioner borg, is the commission withdrawing its proposal for the seed law or not? will the commission respect food sovereignty or not?
i am speaking here today to complain to parliament about the way in which the commission's communication, also addressed to the council, on the milk sector after 2015 has been dealt with. this is a matter of vital importance for many european regions which will suffer negative impacts, as stated in the document. i would like to draw attention to the need to deal urgently with the solutions envisaged, particularly those resulting from my speech at the european conference in september and which were included in the communication. i said that if the importance of milk is going to increase worldwide and the union intends to take advantage of this opportunity by ending the quota system, then part of the wealth created by its abolition should be directed to negatively affected territories through specific programmes that stimulate competitiveness, the promotion of their brands and the quality of their products, with export in mind. in remote regions such as the azores, which are far from markets but have a high production potential, permanent transport routes must also be compensated for so that they can also benefit from these market opportunities.
horticulture is one of the agricultural sectors that requires the most attention because of its diversity, the perishable nature of its products, being more subject to the abuses of mass distribution, more vulnerable to the elements, with less protection from insurers, with greater impact on healthy eating at all ages, etc. that is why this report is so important, especially when horticulture occupies only 3% of the cultivated area and accounts for 18% of total european agricultural production, and when the number of farmers is decreasing along with their increasingly reduced income. of the many things that need to be done to protect and boost horticulture, it is urgent to strengthen producer organisations (po), invest in technical training for young people and in innovation associated with production and processing for a competitive market; it is urgent to stimulate short supply chains, local markets and consumption, with producers selling their products directly for better pay, at a lower price and with higher quality for consumers.
the report by mr de gucht, which i am sure will be very useful to the house, is a report which is very much in line with the spirit of the treaty of rome and which is very much in line with the spirit of the treaty of rome. whether it is the will of the government authorities in riyadh, themselves the targets of terrorist threats, or not, the tragic consequences of this religious proselytism are visible, paid for in blood, in the war in syria, the repression in egypt and bahrain, the destabilization in libya or mali, or the sectarian violence in iraq, pakistan and afghanistan, for example. this is an issue which cannot continue to be silenced in the european union's relations with saudi arabia, as is emphasized in this first report by the european parliament on the subject. it is not acceptable that the union and its member states should continue to deal with the kingdom of saudi arabia by placing a high value on the economic and security dimensions, because it is the world's largest oil producer, plays a central role in the gulf cooperation council, is a member of the g20 or is the main arms buyer and trading partner. this report seeks to recognise the strategic dimension of the relationship between the european union and riyadh, highlighting both areas and interests of convergence and where we differ: the european union is not a party to the conflict, and the domain of human rights and democracy is not unassailable, it is not irrelevant to the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism, to the promotion of coexistence between civilizations or to the peaceful resolution of conflicts. despite being an absolute monarchy, saudi arabia is bound by obligations under international law and universal human rights, including the rights of women and migrants. these issues, as well as religious freedom, must be the unwavering focus of the european union's dialogue with riyadh. as i noted during my visit to saudi arabia last november, the political, social and economic life of the country is based on the segregation of women. despite the high level of qualifications afforded by the large number of women entering higher education: only last year were the first 30 women appointed to the shura and only in 2015 will women be able to vote in municipal elections. it is an attack on their dignity and a gross violation of human rights for a system to grant legal guardianship over women to a male relative, father, husband, brother, or even son. a recent law aimed at protecting women from domestic violence will be a mere piece of paper if this subjection is not abolished. the european union must commit itself to supporting all those in saudi arabia who are working to eliminate discrimination against women, whether in the economic field, in access to education, the labour market, justice, including the still persistent obstacles leading to: the argument that such restrictions are based on religious reasons or are intended to protect women must be dismantled. but it's not just women who suffer from the denial of basic rights in saudi arabia: the death penalty continues to be applied in a medieval judicial system without basic safeguards, hostage to judges of religious extraction and without even being based on a written penal code. the statistics on executions include not only adult nationals but also minors and foreigners. it is imperative to persuade saudi arabia to put an end to arbitrary and extrajudicial tensions, the institutionalized practice of torture and corporal punishment, and the harassment of human rights organisations and defenders. it is imperative that it guarantees the rights of minorities, including the shi'a, including the permitting of the public exercise of religious freedom, and also stresses the need to abolish the practice of kefala and the abusive treatment of migrant workers. we would not have taken the trouble to draw up this report in the european parliament if we did not consider the role of saudi arabia to be relevant in regional and global security and if we did not consider that the european union's interaction with the various saudi partners can result in progress, which is of course fundamental to resolving many of the contradictions and intentions facing saudi society itself, with a population that is mostly young, vibrantly active on social networks and increasingly suffocating in an anachronistic system that restricts opportunities. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that nothing could be more decisive regionally than the outcome of the negotiations to bring the nuclear programme of neighbouring iran under international control: instead of being sidelined or hampering the process, riyadh can make a decisive contribution to its success by establishing mutually beneficial neighbourly relations and thus contribute to ending the proxy war in the martyred syria, to the stabilisation of iraq, pakistan and afghanistan and to finally advancing the israeli-palestinian peace process.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for these four important pieces of legislation which will now provide an updated framework for the european union's fight against money laundering. it is often said, including in this parliament, that democracy has a cost and that european democracy has a cost. well, that cost, when you do the math, for example of this european parliament divided by all european citizens is one and a half euros a year. but if, on the other hand, we take account of the costs of money laundering, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and all these activities which are closely linked, but not only to the criminal world, to arms, drugs and human trafficking, these costs, as has already been said, in the case of the european union can amount to 1 billion, that is to say, one million million euros, which is about 2 000 euros per european citizen. if these pieces of legislation we are discussing here can recover at least some of that money, that money which is needed for schools, for parks, for libraries, for hospitals, for the sustainability of our social security systems, then we will be doing one of the most relevant services we could do to the european citizen and, although these things are not measured by money alone, we will be making a lot of profit. the costs of democracy are much lower than the costs of non-democracy. every time democracy advances, the citizen gains in monetary terms, of course, but also in terms of trust in institutions and in terms of moral and human progress. we need, as these reports say, to be able to identify, say, the faces behind these bank transfers, we need to end this system of biombs where one company is owned by another company that hides another company that is then in turn owned by a company in an offshore country behind which the actual faces of the last beneficiaries are hidden. legislation to establish a european register of last beneficiaries is therefore absolutely essential. we're going to need more. in my view, we need a special european unit for the investigation of economic and financial crime and we also need to know exactly who is making each transfer. but these are good advances. i would like to congratulate and thank my colleagues, also as a citizen.
in writing. the amendments voted in the libe and econ committees to the commission's proposal for the revision of the anti-money laundering directive represent a decisive step forward in the fight against corruption and tax evasion and all other forms of crime. i would like to congratulate the libe and econ rapporteurs and the shadows for having managed to agree on a difficult compromise on the need for transparency of the real beneficiaries of companies based in europe. this legislation is very important because it sets a new paradigm - the creation of a public register of the real owners of companies, combating the phenomenon of the creation of opaque structures and shell companies used by criminals to hide the proceeds of crime and evade tax. the eu must promote this standard of transparency in the world by cutting off the fuel that fuels tax havens and secrecy jurisdictions from the united states to the cayman islands, from switzerland to hong kong. the european parliament has played its part: it is now up to the member states to assume their responsibilities to the european citizens, accepting that this is the only way forward if we are to be serious about fighting organised crime, corruption and tax evasion.
member of the commission, in writing. report: paolo de castro (a7-0260/2013) commission statement repeating paragraph 15 of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission in the context of this regulation, the commission recalls the commitment it has taken in paragraph 15 of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission to provide to parliament full information and documentation on its meetings with national experts within the framework of its work on the presentation of delegated acts.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european parliament. unfortunately, the so-called fiscal consolidation measures have consequences for real people's lives and have indeed caused huge setbacks in terms of equality. all those who wish to adopt a realistic report on the development of equality between men and women and not whitewash reality should vote against the epp alternative resolution.
the rapporteur. - i just want to say that i regret the shameful signal this parliament has given today. it means that you are not even in the word in favor of women's rights, it is a shame.
rapporteur. - (inaudible as microphone turned off) … groups and it reads: ‘expresses its grave consternation that the kingdom of saudi arabia is one of the countries in the world that still practices public executions, amputations and flogging. calls on the ksa authorities to pass legislation outlawing these practices, which constitute a gross violation of a number of international human rights’ instruments to which the ksa is a party’.
rapporteur. - madam president, again, another amendment that has been agreed and reads as follows: ‘is concerned that some of the kingdom of saudi arabia’s citizens’ and organisations’ financial and political support for some religious and political groups, notably in north africa, the middle east, asia, and in particular in south asia (namely pakistan and afghanistan, chechnya and dagestan), may result in reinforcing fundamentalist and obscurantist forces that undermine efforts to nurture democratic governance and oppose the participation of women in public life.’
rapporteur. - it has also been agreed. it reads, ‘whereas the kingdom of saudi arabia needs to ensure the real freedom of religion, particularly regarding public practice and religious minorities, in line with an important role that ksa plays as custodian of the two holy mosques of islam in mecca and medina’.
in writing. - i approve this report, since i consider that inland waterway transport plays an important role as a means of transporting goods and passengers, particularly to urban centres and river crossings. i support the increased use of inland waterways for the transport of goods and people, considering that it is the least polluting and reducing land traffic, especially in urban centres, facilitating movement. i would therefore call for investment in fleet renewal or retrofitting, which would bring additional environmental benefits. it is essential to promote the use of innovative vessels powered by alternative energy sources, replacing older vessels that are outdated in terms of technology, safety and the environment. i think it would be useful to assess the state of the fleet and the pace of renewal and/or retrofitting. i therefore believe that the current review is a good opportunity for these studies to be carried out, for a more concrete and rigorous assessment of the current conditions and their evolution.
in writing. - it is essential that the collection of statistics throughout the union is a transparent and fluid process. there should therefore be no overload on any single institution in collecting data, so that its distribution is a form of relief but also of appreciation for the proper functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. - i have tabled my vote in accordance with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures. the distinction between delegated acts and implementing powers should be clearly drawn in order to safeguard parliament's prerogatives.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods by inland waterway. this requires reliable data, which were not collected until now. this final version adopts a position that allows the eu's policy in this sector to be guided and assessed on the basis of objective, comparable and reliable statistics, capable of presenting results and trends towards a well-governed, safe, clean, competitive and integrated mode of transport. this is a relevant issue, as it gives us a precise idea of seaworthiness in the union. the collection of this data is also essential for assessing the state of the fleet and the rate of renewal or re-equipment, as the lack of adequate infrastructure makes inland navigation difficult. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that innovative vessels powered by alternative energy sources are used, stressing that most of the vessels used on inland waterways are old and in need of urgent renewal and that there would certainly be additional environmental benefits. i agree with the rapporteur's position and therefore voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - this report aims to bring the delegated and implementing acts into line with the lisbon treaty, which was previously part of the comitology procedure. i support the european commission's proposal and believe that there is no need to create duplication of administrative tasks and obstacles which could jeopardise the collection of statistics on the transport of goods by inland waterway. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, as i support the overall objective of the proposal for a regulation, in particular as regards strengthening economic governance by supporting an improved statistical monitoring system with the relevant data from the mff. i recognise the need to develop requirements and procedures to ensure high quality statistics, with the aim of facilitating the early identification and monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. however, i believe that the statistical quality control of the data relevant for the mff and the information underlying them can be aligned more closely with the procedural framework defined in the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, as well as with the existing legislation, practices and governance structures in terms of european statistics. in view of these considerations, i welcome the proposal for a regulation and suggest that some of the elements be strengthened by the proposed main amendments.
in writing. - i know . the proposal for a regulation on which this report is based aims to ensure the quality and timeliness of the production, supply and quality control of statistical data which are compiled or transmitted for the purposes of the macroeconomic imbalance detection procedures, in order to ensure the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the european union. this improved statistical monitoring system should follow some of the recommendations contained in this report, in particular the alignment of the framework of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, and should limit the application of sanctions to countries whose currency is the euro. all fines collected should accordingly be channelled to the european stability mechanism and not to the union budget. the transmission of data to the european commission with dates of transmission and publication of data should also be clarified. it is also suggested that dialogue visits to member states and investigations to detect deliberate misrepresentation of relevant data should be carried out. the european parliament should be called upon to play a more active role in this monitoring. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - statistical data is one of the best forms of transparency we can offer our citizens. it is not just a way of getting information, but a way of consulting, studying and working. statistics are the basis for doing any kind of analysis. so quality statistics and a public service that the european union can continue to do for its citizens, for the common good and so that we can, when necessary, analyse what is done throughout the union.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on which this report is based aims to ensure the quality and timeliness of the production, supply and quality control of statistical data which are compiled or transmitted for the purposes of the procedures for detecting macroeconomic imbalances, in order to ensure the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the union. this improved statistical monitoring system should follow some of the recommendations contained in this report, in particular alignment with the framework of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure and limit the application of sanctions to countries whose currency is the euro. all fines collected should accordingly be channelled to the european stability mechanism and not to the union budget. the transmission of data to the commission should also be clarified, with dates for the transmission of data and their publication. it is also suggested that dialogue visits to member states and investigations to detect deliberate misrepresentation of relevant data should be carried out. the european parliament must also play a more active role in this monitoring. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the quality of statistical data is essential for the detection of macroeconomic imbalances. this regulation aims to ensure the quality and timeliness of the production, supply and quality control of statistical data that are compiled or transmitted for the purposes of the procedures for detecting macroeconomic imbalances, and to ensure the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the union. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation to which this report relates aims to ensure the quality and timeliness of the production, supply and quality control of statistical data which are compiled or transmitted for the purposes of the procedures for detecting macroeconomic imbalances, in order to ensure the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the union. this improved statistical monitoring system should follow some of the recommendations contained in this report, in particular alignment with the framework of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, and should limit the application of sanctions to countries whose currency is the euro. all fines collected should accordingly be channelled to the european stability mechanism and not to the union budget. the transmission of data to the commission, with dates for the transmission of data and their publication, should also be clarified. it is also suggested that member state visits and investigations be carried out to detect deliberate misrepresentation of relevant data. the european parliament must also play a more active role in this monitoring. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - regulation (eu) no 1176/2011 of the european parliament and of the council establishes an alert mechanism to facilitate the early identification and monitoring of imbalance situations. under this mechanism, the commission should prepare the annual report on the alert mechanism (rma), which should contain a qualitative economic and financial assessment and identify those member states that it considers may be affected or at risk of being affected by imbalances. i am in favour of this report which calls for greater cooperation and permanent coordination between the commission (eurostat) and the statistical authorities of the member states. i also stress the importance of establishing a reliable process for the collection, compilation, monitoring and publication of data relevant to the macroeconomic imbalances procedure.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that the extension of the agreement would be in the interest of both parties, in order to maintain continuity in the scientific and technological link between the usa and the european union. these relations bring socioeconomic benefits to both parties and are in line with the extension period extending the agreement for a further five years. at a later stage, however, intellectual property rights should be reviewed following a request from the united states. we are aware that the us is preparing an official note identifying all the areas it would like to renegotiate. given that such renegotiations will require the council to adopt a decision authorising the opening of negotiations on the commission's recommendation, in the meantime i agree that the current draft agreement should remain applicable.
in writing. - given the importance of scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the government of the united states of america, i am voting in favour of renewing the agreement.
in writing. - signed in 1997, this agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america, in force since 14 october 1998, was for a period of five years, with a possible extension for a further five years. it was amended in 2009, broadening its scope, which we did not agree with, nor did we agree with, and new areas of activity, such as nanotechnology, security and space research, were introduced. this agreement implies the exchange of information which may affect cooperation activities, the information being not only technical and scientific data, research results and methods, but also any other data relating to cooperation activities, with the safeguarding of the protection of personal data and respect for individual freedoms becoming unclear in the flow of information. the commission said that it was the intention of the united states to revise the annex on intellectual property rights and that it was therefore preparing an official note identifying all the areas it intended to negotiate. we'll be alert to any changes. we voted against it.
in writing. - this arrangement has been very beneficial to both parties. it is therefore appropriate to renew it. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america was signed in washington on 5 december 1997 and entered into force on 14 october 1998. article 12 (b) of the agreement provides as follows: this agreement shall be concluded for an initial period of five years. subject to review by the parties in the last year of each successive period, the agreement may be subsequently extended, with any amendments, for additional periods of five years by mutual written agreement between the parties. by council decision 2009/306/ec of 30 march 2009, the agreement was renewed for a further period of five years. the agreement expires on 14 october 2013. renewal of the agreement would be in the interest of both parties in order to maintain the continuity of the scientific and technological relationship between the us and the european union with shared socio-economic benefits. in these terms, and in view of the favourable opinion of the committee responsible, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - having regard to council decision 98/591/ec of 13 october 1998 on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america and the request for approval submitted, i have voted in favour of the document approving the renewal of the agreement.
in writing. - this agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america was signed in 1997 and entered into force on 14 october 1998 for a period of five years, with a possible extension of five years. in 2009, the agreement was amended and new areas of activity were added such as nanotechnology, security and space research, a change that widened the scope of the agreement and with which we do not agree. the agreement implies the exchange of information which may affect cooperation activities, the information referred to being not only technical and scientific data, research results and methods, but also any other data relating to cooperation activities, information flow in which the safeguarding of the protection of personal data and the respect for individual freedoms is unclear. the commission said that it was the intention of the united states to revise the annex on intellectual property rights and that it was therefore preparing an official note identifying all the areas it intended to negotiate. we will be vigilant about these changes. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the nagoya protocol guarantees greater legal certainty and greater transparency for both suppliers and users of genetic resources. i also believe it helps to ensure benefit-sharing and creates conditions for access to the most predictable genetic resources. by enhancing legal certainty and promoting benefit-sharing, the nagoya protocol encourages progress in research on genetic resources, which can lead to new discoveries that are beneficial for all. in addition, the nagoya protocol creates incentives for the in situ conservation of genetic resources and their sustainable use, thereby enhancing the contribution of biodiversity to human well-being and development. in my view, the european union plays a central role in the use of genetic resources, both because of its numerous collections and research centres and because of its important industries which use these resources. sustainable access to genetic resources is essential and therefore needs to be enhanced by greater trust in our international partners and a clear legislative framework.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol is an international treaty on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use. the protocol has already been signed by the european union. this important agreement on the international governance of biodiversity is the result of long negotiations since the adoption of the cbd in 1992 in rio de janeiro, and comes in the context of a global biodiversity crisis, which continues to intensify with increasing species loss. to reverse this trend, it is necessary to mobilise the necessary resources, especially financial resources, at local and international level to preserve the biodiversity that is vital to our societies. the nagoya protocol is intended to contribute to these objectives. in view of this, i welcome the ratification of the nagoya protocol by the european union.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol is an international treaty on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use. this protocol establishes an international scheme to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, in order to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use. we are seeking greater legal certainty and greater transparency for both suppliers and users of genetic resources. i believe that we must mobilise the necessary resources, especially financial resources, to preserve the biodiversity that is vital to our societies. the nagoya protocol is intended to contribute to these objectives. i therefore agree to ratify this protocol in order to ensure that the eu maintains its leadership and will be at the table for the first negotiations, which will take place at the next conference of the parties in 2014.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol is an international treaty on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use. this protocol establishes an international scheme to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, in order to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use. we are seeking greater legal certainty and greater transparency for both suppliers and users of genetic resources. i believe that we must mobilise the necessary resources, especially financial resources, to preserve the biodiversity that is vital to our societies. the nagoya protocol is intended to contribute to these objectives. i therefore agree to ratify this protocol to ensure that the eu maintains its leadership and will be at the table for the first negotiations to take place at the next conference of the parties in 2014.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol is an international treaty on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use. signed today by the european union and its 26 member states, it establishes an international scheme to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use. this protocol is based on three pillars: access to genetic resources, subject to the sovereignty of states, which establish national measures to ensure legal certainty through clear legislative frameworks and the issuance of documents such as licenses for granting access; sharing of benefits arising from the fair and equitable use of genetic resources, subject to conditions agreed by mutual agreement between supplier and user, which should contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity worldwide; and compliance with specific obligations to ensure compliance with the national legislation of the contracting parties and contractual obligations under mutually agreed terms. the nagoya protocol will enter into force as soon as the signatory countries have ratified it, and the report recommends that the eu and all its member states ratify it as soon as possible. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol establishes an international scheme to support one of the three objectives of the cbd (convention on biological diversity), namely, the sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources in order to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use. this protocol is based on three pillars, namely access to genetic resources, benefit-sharing and compliance with obligations. the ratification of the protocol will bring it into force, and it is in everyone's interest that this should happen as soon as possible. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - at the international summit on biological diversity held on 29 october 2010 in nagoya, japan, countries that are parties to the convention on biological diversity (cbd) adopted three landmark agreements to combat biodiversity loss: the nagoya protocol, the global strategic plan for biodiversity for 2011-2020 and the creation of the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services (ipbes). the nagoya protocol is an international treaty on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use and has been signed by 92 countries, including the european union and its member states. given the importance of this protocol and in the light of the positive considerations of the committees involved, i voted in favour of the european union ratifying the nagoya protocol.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol is an international treaty on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use and has been signed by 92 countries, including the european union. i am in favour of this protocol establishing an international support scheme for the sharing of the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources in order to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use. i would also like to emphasize that the agreement on the international governance of biodiversity is the result of long negotiations since 1992 in rio de janeiro and comes in the context of a global biodiversity crisis, which is intensifying with the loss of species.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol is an international treaty on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use, signed by the european union. an international scheme is established to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. since this protocol will enter into force as soon as the signatory states have ratified it, it is recommended that the eu and all its member states ratify it as soon as possible. this protocol is based on three pillars: access to genetic resources (where states establish national measures to ensure legal certainty) through clear legislative frameworks and the issuing of documents such as licenses for granting access; sharing of benefits resulting from the fair and equitable use of genetic resources (which should contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity worldwide) subject to conditions adjusted by mutual agreement between supplier and user; and compliance with specific obligations, aimed at ensuring compliance with the national legislation of the contracting parties and contractual obligations under mutually agreed terms.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that according to the spanish authorities, 11.5% of spanish enterprises are located in the nuts ii comunidad valenciana, which is affected by redundancies. manufacturing accounts for 26% of total employment in the region. the business model in the comunidad valenciana is characterised by a high percentage of small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly specialised in the manufacture of furniture, footwear, textiles, ceramics and toys, concentrated around a limited number of municipalities. it is stated and understandable that the redundancies in the textile sector in the comunidad valenciana further aggravate the economic and social instability of the region, due to unemployment, since the region, in particular the nuts 3 region of alicante, is heavily dependent on this sector. of all the workers in the manufacturing industry in alicante, 8.24% belong to the textile sector. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes measures for the reintegration of 300 workers into the labour market, as well as support for entrepreneurship, intensive job search assistance and other incentives. this measure is, in my view, crucial for all member states affected by the macroeconomic difficulties due to austerity measures.
- the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 840000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain to support the 300 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf, out of the 560 workers made redundant in 198 enterprises in the valencian community.
in writing. - this report is another request for eu financial assistance to textile workers in the comunidad valenciana region of spain, as a result of the dismissal of 560 workers in 198 enterprises. this is a consequence of the so-called structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, due to the expiry of the wto transitional agreement on textiles and clothing and increased exposure to global competition. in 2004, we stressed the need to take account of the specificities of the textile and clothing sector in the ongoing wto negotiations under the doha agenda, in particular by ensuring reciprocity in the sector in future agreements and in trade relations between the european union and third countries. a year later we warned of the consequences for this sector of the wto negotiations, which promoted and tried to impose a blind and violent liberalization of world trade, with very serious economic and social consequences. we reaffirm our reservations and critical position on this fund, even though we consider it important to support these workers, but more important was that measures were taken to prevent unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
in writing. - the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to spain, which submitted an application feg/2013/008 es/comunidad valenciana textiles for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 560 workers in 198 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 13 (textile manufacturing) in the nuts ii region comunidad valenciana (es52) 300 of which are potential beneficiaries of measures co-financed by the egf , during the reference period from 1 november 2012 to 1 august 2013.
in writing. - this report deals with the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain. this fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. given that 198 textile companies in the valencian community have laid off workers, i think the conditions are right for the fund to be mobilised. the commission's confirmation that the application met the necessary conditions reinforces my position and i therefore vote in favour of this document.
in writing. - regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. this application concerns 560 redundancies in 198 textile enterprises in the region of the valencian community, 300 of which are potential beneficiaries of measures co-financed by the egf, during the reference period from 1 november 2012 to 1 august 2013. i am in favour of the mobilisation of eur 840 000 for workers made redundant in the valencian community, and of measures to improve their skills so that they can adapt their initial qualifications to the new needs of the labour market.
in writing. - we further examined a request for eu financial assistance to textile workers following the dismissal of 560 workers in 198 companies in the comunidad valenciana region of spain, dismissals associated with the so-called structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, due to the expiry of the wto's transitional agreement on textiles and clothing and increased exposure to global competition. in 2004, we warned of the consequences of the ongoing wto negotiations under the doha agenda. then, in 2005, we reaffirmed the consequences for the textile and clothing sector of the wto negotiations, which promoted and tried to impose a blind and violent liberalisation of world trade, with very serious economic and social consequences. there are the workers once again paying the bill! it is important to support them, but we reiterate our reservations and our critical position on this fund, because we believe that it would be more important if measures were taken to prevent unemployment and to avoid it. for this, we must take a different direction towards europe, a europe where workers have their labour and social rights recognised.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that during previous discussions the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety expressed concerns about plant reproductive material used for ornamental purposes as well as plant propagating material intended for sale to private horticulturists, the lack of quality of the commission's impact assessment, the wide powers of the community plant variety office, the vague definitions and the unnecessary administrative burdens imposed on member states and operators. these initiatives may lead to a reduction in choice and compromise transparency for consumers. finally, i would stress that european union legislation on plant reproductive material should facilitate and encourage the preservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture.
in writing. - this report responds to the just demands of dozens of small producers and environmental groups who are calling for the rejection of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in foodstuffs. these taxes would introduce obstacles to the breeding and preservation of traditional varieties by prohibiting the use and marketing of products outside this register, with the aim of limiting the market to a small number of commercial varieties, where large agro-industries would dominate. we therefore vote against the committee's proposal and in favour of the report rejecting it.
in writing. - in view of the sensitivity of this matter, i do not consider the commission's legislative proposal to be appropriate. i therefore agree that it be returned for future consideration.
in writing. - this report focuses on the rejection by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the proposal for a regulation of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material, which is currently regulated by 12 directives which allow the regulation to be adapted to each specific case. i believe that the new approach, which aims to unify the current directives into a single legislative act, may not meet the needs of operators, consumers and competent authorities and that, overall, the existing legislative framework is satisfactory. i would also stress that eu legislation on this material should facilitate and encourage the preservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture. i would have preferred the european parliament to have worked on and improved the commission's proposal. however, there was no political agreement to do so. in this context, i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - due to its wide variety, plant reproductive material is currently regulated by 12 directives which allow the regulation to be adapted to each specific case. it should be noted that the approach based on a single universally valid model does not meet the different requirements for existing plant reproductive material and the needs of operators, consumers and competent authorities. i therefore support the european parliament's call on the european commission to withdraw its proposal and to submit a new one.
in writing. - in response to the just demands of dozens of small producers and environmental associations, this report rejects the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material. the proposal would require the registration of any and all varieties of plant reproductive material, even those used in family gardens by traditional farmers and sold on local markets, imposing costs and administrative procedures that are unacceptable for small-scale production, just to favour multinational seed companies and large agro-industry. these taxes, which are intended to limit the market to a small number of commercial varieties, where large agro-industries would dominate, would create obstacles to the breeding and preservation of traditional varieties by prohibiting the use and marketing of products outside this register. we therefore vote against the committee's proposal and in favour of the report rejecting it.
in writing. - i approve the following report, because i believe that there is indeed a serious and sudden deterioration in the economic and social situation in the european union and that it is essential to take action in this regard. on 4 november 2011, the council declared that the financial and economic crisis in the union constituted a serious and sudden deterioration of the economic and social situation in the union, which led to significant budgetary adjustments in most member states. the commission was therefore asked to submit a proposal for an adjustment of the appropriate remuneration. i therefore believe that the commission should make a proposal to enable the european parliament to participate in the legislative process. i would stress that the european parliament and the council have a wide margin of appreciation with regard to the adjustments to remuneration and pensions.
in writing. - i voted against because i find it scandalous that a 2011 salary adjustment has been denied to workers and pensioners in the european union.
in writing. - in view of the economic crisis in the member states and the period of restraint required of european citizens, the european court of justice has decided that the adjustment of remuneration in belgium and luxembourg will be 0% for 2011. this report is therefore intended to provide the same information and to inform the pay tables. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the revision of remuneration may take into account other factors, if necessary, such as human resource management and recruitment needs. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted a licence to operate the airport. these data revealed stagnation as well as a high level of unemployment, high public deficit and debt in the european union as a result of the ongoing crisis. according to data provided by eurostat and according to the national statistical institutes of the member states, national civil servants lost 1.1% of their purchasing power. the same loss of purchasing power should therefore have been applied to union officials and other servants for the period from 1 july 2012 to 30 june 2013 if the commission had followed the normal application of the method.
in writing. - i voted in favour of increasing the salaries and pensions of union officials by 0.8% for the year 2012. the issue is the european council's systematic refusal to index civil servants' salaries and pensions since 2010. following this refusal, the civil servants' unions appealed to the european court of justice, which ruled in their favour, although it stated that the council had some discretion to make an indexation below the value of inflation in exceptional situations, which it did. although the increase voted is below inflation, it is a sin simply to be late.
in writing. - in view of the economic period in the union, the european court of justice, using the exception clause, fixed the adjustment of remuneration and pensions in belgium and luxembourg at 0.8% for 2012. i voted in favour of this dossier.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of serbia, signed on the same date, entered into force on 1 february 2010 in order to allow for the early application of the trade and trade-related provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa). in order to ensure the correct and harmonious application of the saa, i believe that a proposal for an implementing regulation should be put forward to lay down the rules and procedures for adopting the detailed rules for the application of certain provisions of these agreements, as was the case with the saa and the provisional agreements concluded earlier.
in writing. - this report is the result of the agreement with the council. this agreement takes into account the commitment on trade omnibus i and the entry into force of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement. the main objective of trade omnibus i is to bring international trade legislation into line with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. this means that, with the lisbon treaty, trade policy is now an exclusive competence of the eu. it is clear that the interests in the commercial field differ from country to country, because the respective economies, fragility and potential of each country are different. the overlapping of the interests of the strongest with those of the weakest, in this and other areas, is detrimental to weaker economies, such as portugal, which are in the hands of the commercial interests of the economic groups of the major eu powers.
in writing. - this legislative resolution has my vote in favour. the report focused on the submission of amendment proposals aimed at bringing the five regulations on stabilisation and association agreements and interim agreements with other western balkan countries into line with the amendments introduced by trade omnibus i. this will enable the european parliament to develop a coherent position on this matter.
in writing. - a stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was signed in 2008. this proposal introduces, inter alia, rules for the implementation of the provisions relating to tariff quotas for fish and fishery products, tariff reductions, technical adaptations of nomenclature codes, taking into account compliance with the agreement. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report reflects the outcome of the agreement with the council, which takes into account the commitment on trade omnibus i and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and serbia. as we know, the main objective of trade omnibus i is to bring international trade legislation into line with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon. this means that, with the lisbon treaty, trade policy is now an exclusive competence of the eu. we know that the interests in the commercial field differ from country to country, because the economies, the fragility and the potential of each country are different. the overlapping of the interests of the stronger over the weaker in this and other areas is detrimental to weaker economies, which are in the hands of the commercial interests of the economic groups of the major eu powers.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that in several resolutions adopted before and during the financial crisis, the european parliament called for progress towards more integrated european supervision, so as to ensure a truly level playing field for all actors at the level of the european union, and it is also important that such supervision reflects the increasing integration of the union's financial markets. in this connection, its resolutions of 13 april 2000 on the commission communication on the implementation of a framework for financial markets: action plan of 21 november 2002: on prudential supervisory rules in the european union, of 11 july 2007: on financial services policy (2005-2010); and the white paper of 23 september 2008 containing recommendations to the commission on absolute return funds and private equity funds, of 9 october 2008, including recommendations to the commission on the follow-up to the lamfalussy case: future supervisory structure.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive aims to amend directives 2002/92/ec, 2003/71/ec and 2009/138/ec and regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 as regards the powers of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority) and the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority). the above authorities were established on 24 november 2010 with the aim of correcting the shortcomings in cooperation, coordination and consistency in the application of eu law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. consequently, different adjustments are put forward which aim, on the one hand, to establish transitional requirements in matters such as governance, supervisory reporting and public disclosure, capital determination, solvency capital calculations, risk calculation and valuations and, on the other hand, to establish greater convergence of supervisory approval procedures. this adaptation will improve the functioning of the internal market through supervision and regulation that ensure the integrity of markets and, in turn, the protection of citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in the last five years, the european union has worked hard to create a european system which allows, on the one hand, for a strengthened supervision of the financial sector and, on the other hand, for a strengthening of the liability of the various players in the financial market. the insurance sector has also undergone major revisions, particularly in the rules and procedures for insolvency proceedings, in order to avoid potential systemic risks in the european union. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr burkhard balz, on the hard work he has been doing on these matters.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive aims to amend directives 2002/92/ec, 2003/71/ec and 2009/138/ec and regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 as regards the powers of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority) and the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority). the above authorities were established on 24 november 2010 with the aim of correcting the shortcomings in cooperation, coordination and consistency in the application of eu law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. consequently, different adjustments are put forward which aim, on the one hand, to establish transitional requirements in matters such as governance, supervisory reporting and public disclosure, capital determination, solvency capital calculations, risk calculation and valuations and, on the other hand, to establish greater convergence of supervisory approval procedures. this adaptation will improve the functioning of the internal market through supervision and regulation that ensure the integrity of markets and, in turn, the protection of citizens. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - financial stability is a precondition for the real economy to provide job creation, credit provision and growth. the financial crisis revealed serious shortcomings in financial supervision, which failed to anticipate adverse macro-prudential developments or prevent the accumulation of excessive risks in the financial system. on the basis of these assumptions, i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority, promoting measures to safeguard financial stability.
in writing. - the european parliament called for progress towards more integrated european supervision, so as to ensure a genuine level playing field for all actors at eu level and to reflect the increasing integration of the union's financial markets. i am in favour of this report which calls for the development of a single code of rules to ensure consistent harmonisation and uniform application and thus contribute to a more efficient functioning of the internal market and a more effective application of micro-prudential supervision. i would also stress that the legislation defines the areas in which the european authorities have competence to draw up draft technical standards and the way in which these standards should be adopted.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that in order to combat money laundering, which costs many millions a year, a coordinated response by law enforcement agencies in the member states is essential, as is a standardised procedure for financial institutions and payment service providers. by complementing the anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism package, this regulation aims to achieve the same overarching objective of more effective combating money laundering and terrorist financing. this measure enhances the transparency of transfers of funds of all types - domestic and cross-border - with the intention of making it easier for law enforcement authorities to track electronically transferred funds by criminals and terrorists. i therefore consider this piece of legislation to be of great importance for greater transparency in the financial world and the fight against terrorism and crime.
in writing. - the objective of this report is to improve the traceability of payments, prevent, investigate and detect money laundering and financial terrorism in relation to transfers of funds. to that end, it lays down rules on the transmission by payment service providers of information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment chain. in some areas, information transparency gaps remain and can be addressed by setting out control rules such as making information on the payer and payer of payments more widely available, extending the scope of payment registries to credit and debit card transactions, internet and mobile payments, and strengthening the sanctioning powers of the relevant authorities. tackling this problem is crucial, as global money laundering is estimated today to be about 2.7% of global gdp. this regulation is part of the wider package on combating money laundering and terrorism, and it is widely understood that insufficient protection of financial systems against misuse by criminals or terrorists can cause serious damage to economic prosperity. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. - illicit capital flows, including tax evasion and corruption, undermine the stability and reputation of the financial sector, threaten the internal market and undermine citizens' trust in the rule of law. the enormous evolution of the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing facilitated by technological progress and the new means made available to criminals has made it necessary and urgent to undertake a thorough review of international standards for combating these phenomena. the commission is also proposing to amend the 2006 regulation to bring it into line with the eu legal framework, ensuring a uniform transposition of international standards and at the same time avoiding any discrimination between national payments within a member state and cross-border payments between member states. i support this regulation because it will improve the traceability of payments, the effectiveness of anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regimes, make existing rules in the various member states clearer and more coherent, and provide a broader scope to respond to new risks and vulnerabilities. only then will we be able to safeguard the reputation of the eu's financial system and increase citizens' confidence.
in writing. - a report by the united nations office on drugs and crime (unodc) estimates that the flow of money laundered in the world today represents about 2.7 percent of global gdp, something like 1.6 trillion dollars. these figures highlight the importance of establishing clear rules for the prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing, which can only be achieved through a coordinated response by law enforcement bodies in the member states, as well as a standardised procedure for financial institutions and payment service providers.
in writing. - the objective of this report is to improve the traceability of payments, prevent, investigate and detect money laundering and financial terrorism in relation to transfers of funds. to that end, it lays down rules on the transmission by payment service providers of information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment chain. in some areas, information transparency gaps remain today and can be addressed by defining some control rules such as making information on the receiver and the issuer of payments more available, extending the scope of payment registries to credit and debit card transactions, internet payments and mobile payments, and strengthening the sanctioning powers of the respective authorities. combating this problem is crucial, as global money laundering is estimated today to be about 2.7% of global gdp. this regulation is part of the wider package on combating money laundering and terrorism. it is generally understood that insufficient protection of financial systems against abuse by criminals or terrorists can cause immense damage to economic prosperity, so i support this report.
in writing. - this proposal on money transfers imposes an obligation on payment service providers to ensure that transfers are accompanied by information on both the payer and the payee of the payment, in order to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing more effectively. making the tracing of funds more transparent and effective is beneficial for combating money laundering and can act as a deterrent to such practices. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the objective of this report is to improve the traceability of payments, prevent, investigate and detect money laundering and financial terrorism in relation to transfers of funds. to that end, it lays down rules on the transmission by payment service providers of information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment chain. in some areas, information transparency gaps remain today and can be addressed by defining some control rules such as making information on the receiver and the issuer of payments more widely available, extending the scope of payment registries to credit and debit card transactions, internet payments and mobile payments, and strengthening the sanctioning powers of the relevant authorities. combating this problem is crucial, as global money laundering is estimated today to be about 2.7% of global gdp. this regulation is part of the wider package on combating money laundering and terrorism. in the general view that insufficient protection of financial systems against abuse by criminals or terrorists can cause immense damage to economic prosperity, i support this report with my vote in favour.
in writing. - illicit capital flows undermine the structure, stability and reputation of the financial sector and threaten the internal market and international development, and directly or indirectly undermine citizens' confidence in the rule of law. i support this report, which aims to make the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism more effective. i also believe that full traceability of transfers of funds can be a particularly important and valuable tool for the prevention, investigation and detection of capital transfers. it is also important to ensure the transmission of information throughout the payment chain and to provide for the establishment of a system requiring payment service providers to ensure that transfers of funds are accompanied by information on the payer and the payee.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that, according to the international monetary fund's calculations, the extent of money laundering is very high, estimated at 5% of world gdp. such criminal activities compromise the integrity of the financial sector and result in lost revenue for governments. these criminal actions impede competition and adversely affect the proper functioning of markets. in order to better meet the challenges of the present, i agree that improvements should be made to the commission's text. one of the shortcomings i highlight is that business records operations need to be improved to ensure, for example, the identification of the beneficial owner of the business or commercial transaction. this initiative is key to preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the aid scheme for the construction of the new airport in the united kingdom. the existence of such information will enable both the authorities and the companies to verify the persons or groups of persons who actually benefit from the commercial transactions carried out.
in writing. - this proposal for a revision of the directive has become urgent in an increasingly complex financial market context, where the need to preserve the transparency of financial transactions, the proper functioning of the single market and the urgent fight against terrorism and organised crime are becoming increasingly important. thus, important revisions were made such as the mandatory creation of a public register with all companies in the territory of the member states, where beneficiaries, shareholders and directors of these companies are listed. this data will be public and accessible to anyone for a fee. data on politically exposed persons will also be published, taking into account the high risk of heads of state, members of parliament and government, among others, being more exposed to higher risks of corruption. the risk assessment of money laundering will also be a useful innovation. the new directive aims to improve the current framework with a view to preventing the conversion of criminal proceeds into legitimate funds through the financial system. in view of the loss to the real economy and to the well-being of citizens of this kind of parallel activities, i voted in favour of this report, which helps to tackle this problem more effectively.
in writing. - a report by the united nations office on drugs and crime (unodc) estimates that the flow of money laundered in the world today represents about 2.7 percent of global gdp, something like 1.6 trillion dollars. these figures highlight the importance of establishing clear rules for the prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing, which can only be achieved through a coordinated response by law enforcement bodies in the member states, as well as a standardised procedure for financial institutions and payment service providers.
in writing. - i know . the proposal for a revision of the directive has become urgent in an increasingly complex financial market where the need to preserve the transparency of financial transactions, the proper functioning of the single market and the urgent fight against terrorism and organised crime are becoming increasingly important. thus, important revisions were made such as the mandatory creation of a public register with all companies in the territory of the member states, where beneficiaries, shareholders and directors of these companies are listed. this data will be public and accessible to anyone for a fee. data on politically exposed persons will also be published, taking into account the high risk of heads of state, members of parliament and government, among others, being more exposed to higher risks of corruption. the risk assessment of money laundering will also be a useful innovation. the new directive aims to improve the current framework with a view to preventing the conversion of criminal proceeds into legitimate funds through the financial system. given the loss to the real economy and to the well-being of citizens of this kind of parallel activities, i am voting in favour of this report, which helps to tackle this problem more effectively.
in writing. - the revision of the existing money laundering directive strengthens the supervisory duties of banks, auditors, lawyers, accountants, real estate agents and casinos on suspicious customer transactions. the creation of public registers identifying the beneficial owners of companies, trusts and foundations in all eu countries is also proposed to strengthen the fight against tax evasion. only by improving the mechanisms for combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism can we be effective in this fight. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i know . the proposal for a revision of the directive has become urgent in an increasingly complex financial market where the need to preserve the transparency of financial transactions, the proper functioning of the single market and the urgent fight against terrorism and organised crime are becoming increasingly important. thus, important revisions were made such as the mandatory creation of a public register with all companies in the territory of the member states, where beneficiaries, shareholders and directors of these companies are listed. this data will be public and accessible to anyone for a fee. data on politically exposed persons will also be published, taking into account the high risk of heads of state, members of parliament and government, among others, being more exposed to higher risks of corruption. the risk assessment of money laundering will also be a useful innovation. the new directive aims to improve the current framework in order to prevent the conversion of criminal proceeds into legitimate funds through the financial system. in view of the loss to the real economy and to the well-being of citizens of this kind of parallel activities, i voted in favour of this report, which helps to tackle this problem more effectively.
in writing. - the purpose of this document is to improve the traceability of transfers of funds in order to prevent and detect acts of money laundering and terrorist financing. the amendments seek to fill the existing gaps in transparency by laying down new rules. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, as the commission's aim, through this legislative proposal for a decision, is to ensure the continuation of the european union guarantee for the external financing operations of the european investment bank for the next financial perspective 2014-2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the mandate of the eib to the countries most in need of loans, to strengthen the climate change component of the mandate, and to make the bank's external lending policy more consistent with the union's policies and objectives in the field of external action. the european union guarantee for the european bank's external financing operations is an essential instrument for furthering the european union's policies worldwide and complementing the union's financial instruments in the field of external action. while recognising that the bank has made great progress in incorporating new european union policy objectives into its activities in recent years, it should be remembered that the external credibility of the union is at stake in every project financed by the bank. the control of lending operations by the european parliament and the general public therefore remains of great importance.
in writing. - the european union provides the european investment bank (eib) with a budgetary guarantee covering the political or sovereignty risks associated with its financing operations outside the union in support of the union's external policy objectives. this type of eu guarantee is important for the eib to develop its financing operations for investment projects outside the union. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses resulting from financing operations in support of investment projects outside the union. the purpose of this diploma, which i agree with, is to support financing operations which promote the union's external policy. these operations allow the union budgetary funds available for the external regions to be complemented by the financial strength of the eib, to the benefit of the recipient countries. by using these financing operations, the eib contributes to the pursuit of the general principles of the union and, above all, democracy, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, as well as the union's policy objectives, including the promotion of sustainable economic, social and environmental development in developing countries, poverty eradication and the prosperity of the union in changing global economic circumstances.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the development of the community's external policies. by carrying out these financing operations, the eib indirectly contributes to the pursuit of the union's general principles and policy objectives, which include poverty reduction through inclusive growth and a sustainable economy, environmental and social development and prosperity in difficult circumstances. i am voting in favour of the ceiling of eib financing operations with eu guarantee over the period 2014-2020 of eur 30 billion, this amount being invested in the development of the local private sector, in particular in support of smes, development of social and economic infrastructure, in particular in the field of transport, energy, environmental infrastructure and information and communication technologies and in climate change mitigation.
in the case of the european investment bank (eib), it has been carrying out financing operations outside the union in support of the union's external policies. this decision establishes a budget guarantee granted for these operations outside the union with the aim of supporting the development of the local private sector, the development of social, environmental and economic infrastructure, and climate change mitigation and adaptation, while promoting compliance with the general principles guiding the union's external action policy. the eu guarantee shall be eligible for eib loans and loan guarantees as well as capital market debt instruments granted or issued for the benefit of investment projects carried out in eligible countries. it is regrettable, however, that the aid which the eu makes available to third countries subjugates the recipient country to the objectives of eu policies which, as in the case of free trade agreements, are detrimental to the development of those same countries, accentuating existing inequalities, the serious effects of the deregulation of trade, the free movement of capital and investment, i.e. the deepening of the neoliberal model we have today, particularly in countries with weaker economies.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the loss of biodiversity is accelerating. about 60 percent of ecosystems have been degraded in the last 50 years. beyond an ethical and moral responsibility, the economic and social impact of this decline is very high, about 7% of global gdp will be lost annually by 2050. paradoxically, it is in biological diversity that lies an inexhaustible source of innovation and discovery in the field of scientific research, technological applications or health, food, cosmetic and other products. in this way, the preservation of biodiversity is not only essential for the future of all humanity, but for the socioeconomic vitality of europe and all its citizens, who are the direct beneficiaries. in order to participate in the preservation of biodiversity, peoples and associated knowledge, it is necessary that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge are shared in a fair and equitable manner. this sharing should be aimed at contributing to the preservation of biological and cultural diversity in situ and ensuring sustainable use by local populations.
in writing. - genetic resources (gr) are fundamental to sustainable agriculture and food security for all, but are of particular importance for developing countries. moreover, genetic diversity is one of the most important components for the survival of species and the resilience of ecosystems. the loss of genetic diversity resulting from the process of erosion of biodiversity therefore poses a challenge to humanity. the european union, with this proposal, is moving forward with the transposition of the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use.
- one in four mammal species, one in eight bird species and more than one in three amphibian species are threatened with extinction globally (iucn, 2012). this is not only an ethical and moral problem but also a huge economic and social problem: 7% of world gdp will be lost annually by 2050. (teeb report, 2010) biodiversity is an inexhaustible source of innovation and discovery in scientific research, technological applications or health, food, cosmetic and other products. i believe that the preservation of biodiversity contributes to the socioeconomic vitality of europe and of all citizens, who are the direct beneficiaries of its use. the amendments proposed in this report aim to give european citizens a guarantee of traceability and ethics, respect for international legal obligations and fair and equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity.
in writing. - while the report contains aspects which we consider to be positive, in particular all the assumptions and the three pillars of the protocol, namely the duty to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity worldwide, it is certain that the negotiations with the council have weakened and removed a large part of the points of defence of biodiversity and protection of the patenting of biological processes. the proposal for a regulation, which is intended to amend the nagoya protocol, is intended to cover up the desire to patent biological resources and the appropriation of natural resources and biodiversity by large multinationals. the commission's motto is to accuse european companies of acts of bio-piracy, and it is based on the principle that the privatisation or patenting of genetic resources is no longer reprehensible if compensation is granted to the countries of origin of genetic resources. it concerns who owns the sources of genetic material, who markets it, who is allowed to enter the chain of marketing and use, and how the sharing of monetary and knowledge benefits is ensured, and only a contract on the list, agreed by both parties, ensures that there is no bio-piracy, nor the illegal sale and exchange of genetic material.
in writing. - the objective of this proposal for a regulation on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use in the union is to apply the nagoya protocol in the union and to enable its ratification by the union. genetic resources are economically very important and have been playing an increasingly important role in a wide variety of economic sectors. the balanced management of these resources will be key to sound and sustained economic growth. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the loss of biodiversity is accelerating. one in four mammal species, one in eight bird species and more than one in three amphibian species are known to be threatened with extinction globally (iucn, 2012). some 60% of ecosystems have been degraded in the last 50 years (fao, 2010). paradoxically, it is in biological diversity that lies an inexhaustible source of innovation and discovery in the field of scientific research, technological applications or health, food, cosmetic and other products. in this way, the preservation of biodiversity is not only essential for the future of all humanity, both in the north and in the south of the planet, but also for the socioeconomic vitality of europe and of all citizens, who directly benefit from its use. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use, which stresses the need for the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, thereby contributing to the preservation of in situ biological and cultural diversity and ensuring its sustainable use by local populations.
in writing. - the main international instrument providing a general framework for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use is the convention on biological diversity, adopted on behalf of the union pursuant to council decision 93/626/eec. i am in favour of the report because genetic resources play a major role in the implementation of strategies designed to rebuild degraded ecosystems and safeguard endangered species. i also stress the importance of this regulation in defining the rules for compliance with the rules on access to genetic resources and sharing the benefits arising from their use.
in writing. - the report contains aspects which we consider positive and argues that traditional knowledge should enjoy the same level of protection as genetic resources when implementing the nagoya protocol, as well as all the assumptions and the three pillars of the protocol, namely the duty to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity worldwide. however, under the pretext of amending the nagoya protocol, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council masks the fact that large multinationals are patenting biological resources. the commission is particularly concerned about the accusation of european companies of acts of bio-piracy, and is of the opinion that only by authorising or awarding compensation to the countries of origin of genetic resources can the privatisation or patenting of genetic resources be considered to be wrong. the proposal is concerned only with who owns the sources of genetic material, who markets it, who is allowed to enter the chain of marketing and use, and how the sharing of monetary and knowledge benefits is ensured, and only a contract, agreed by both parties, ensures that there is no bio-piracy, nor the illegal sale and exchange of genetic material.
in writing. - i approve of this report and support the commission's proposal on the technical inspection of scooters and motorcycles, as they represent a higher risk group for users. however, it seems more balanced to change the frequency from 4-2-1 to 4-2-2 with regard to these categories of vehicles. i believe that the 4-2-2 formula is also a balanced approach to the inspection of vans and light vehicles, given that several studies on the relationship between accidents and technical deficiencies do not reach clear conclusions in terms of the correlation between more frequent inspections and greater road safety. however, the commission should closely monitor and assess this issue and report its findings to the co-legislators. member states should be allowed to introduce more frequent inspections. the mileage criterion may raise questions with regard to the handling of odometers. it is therefore proposed that this element be removed from the proposal and that more reliable criteria be introduced. the technical requirements and inspection methods set out in the annexes shall be considered as eu minimum standards. i think the same applies to the qualification requirements for inspectors and they should be regarded as the minimum requirements.
in writing. - road safety is an issue that should be on the agenda of every european institution and every member state. so with the technological developments we have today, it is possible to carry out new types of vehicle checks and inspections, that is, to put not only technological developments at the disposal of citizens but also their well-being and safety. as elected representatives of the european people, we must do everything in our power to reduce road accidents throughout the union.
in writing. - the types of vehicle covered by this regulation are responsible for a large number of accidents in all member states. it is therefore essential to give priority to roadworthiness testing, making it more frequent and effective in order to improve road safety. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the present proposal for a regulation, which deserves my support, proposes to establish a minimum level of qualification and vocational training requirements for inspectors of motor vehicles and their trailers and to improve the quality of vehicle technical inspections by establishing common minimum standards for defects and equipment. it is also proposed to combat fraudulent mileage with registered mileage readings and to make safety electronic components subject to mandatory inspection.
in writing. - these new rules proposed by the european commission are intended to increase road safety and levels of environmental protection. so after negotiations with the council, an agreement was reached which proposes that from 2022 only heavy motorcycles will need to be inspected periodically. however, each member state may waive this requirement if it implements alternative measures. another measure which i consider important is that the principle of mutual recognition applies to the registration of a vehicle in another member state if the inspection has already been carried out in another member state. for the reasons stated above, i am in favour of this report.
in the case of the commission, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not only available to the public, but also to the media. however, i am happy to see that information on vehicle registration and documents is made available to each of us as europeans.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal, which is part of the motor vehicle technical inspection package, is to support and enforce the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to increasing road safety and environmental protection. the proposal improves the application of roadworthiness and roadworthiness inspection schemes, in particular where the technical conditions of vehicles create an imminent risk to road safety, through measures such as suspension or cancellation of vehicle registration. during its service life, a vehicle may be re-registered because it has changed ownership or been transferred for permanent use to another member state. it is therefore necessary to introduce a vehicle registration procedure to ensure that vehicles which pose an immediate risk to road safety are not used on public roads. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal, which is part of the motor vehicle technical inspection package, is to support and enforce the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment. the proposal improves the application of roadworthiness and roadworthiness inspection schemes, in particular where the technical conditions of vehicles create an imminent risk to road safety, through measures such as suspension or cancellation of vehicle registration. to be marketed, vehicles must meet the applicable requirements for type approval (either of the model or individual) - ensuring an optimal level of safety and environmental performance standards. all member states are obliged to register vehicles which have obtained european type-approval on the basis of the certificate of conformity issued by the manufacturer. the registration constitutes the official authorisation for the vehicle to be used on public roads and the confirmation that the vehicle meets the requirements applicable at the date. i voted in favour of this proposal, which, in the spirit of the above, introduces new and more precise definitions of the location of vehicle registration and the introduction of the suspension and cancellation of registration certificates.
in writing. - within a package of three reports, the amendment to directive 1993/37/ec on vehicle registration documents aims to simplify vehicle registration and, at the same time, to reduce the duplication of documents relating to inspections and the vehicle registration itself. i am in favour of this flexibility in vehicle registration documents.
in writing. - directive 2009/40/ec lays down minimum standards for the regular roadworthiness test of vehicles. it applies to light vehicles, vehicles for the public transport of passengers and heavy goods vehicles and their trailers. the commission has presented new rules for vehicle roadworthiness testing which aim to improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection. the proposal is in line with the road safety objectives set out in the white paper roadmap to a single european transport area.
in writing. - road safety is an important social issue. the european parliament must once again give a clear signal of its commitment to road safety. much of the effectiveness of road safety comes from the behaviour of road users, hence the need to educate, train and enforce the rules. on the other hand, road safety systems should also take into account human error and inappropriate behaviour and should correct them as far as possible. all components, in particular vehicles and infrastructure, should therefore be less aggressive in order to avoid and limit the consequences of such failures for users, in particular the most vulnerable. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles, which repeals directive 2000/30/ec and introduces a number of important new elements which merit my agreement: a risk-rating system for the selection of vehicles to be inspected, the submission of light commercial vehicles to roadworthiness tests and the carrying out by member states of a certain number of roadworthiness tests per year. the roadworthiness tests shall be carried out according to a stepwise approach: first, an initial inspection of the overall condition of the vehicle and its documentation, e.g. roadworthiness certificates or reports of previous roadworthiness tests; a thorough road inspection may be carried out subsequently on the basis of the results of the initial inspection. the purpose of the diploma is security, introducing the possibility of regular concerted inspections between member states.
in writing. - part of the motor vehicle technical inspection package, this report, which covers directives 2009/40/ec and 200/30/ec, presents a set of changes in the field of roadworthiness tests. this proposal includes the obligation for commercial vehicles to undergo periodic roadworthiness tests and also contains some measures to harmonize the rules on loading. as far as road safety is concerned, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - i welcome this report, beginning by praising the commission's intention to simplify the rules for the production of statistics on rail transport in the european union. this initiative allows the alignment of the current provisions on comitology with the delegated and implementing acts. however, i would point out that the data collection should be further extended to include data on rail infrastructure, with more measurement variables in transport statistics, including cross-border links, which should be at the heart of the european union's transport policy. i also believe that the powers of the commission should be simplified, without prejudice to the prerogatives of the european parliament. finally, i believe that the requirement to collect accident data should not be withdrawn from eurostat, but that cooperation on the data collected should be ensured and implemented with the european railway agency. in addition, the requirements for the collection of incident data should be added as it contributes to a higher level of railway safety.
in the case of the railways, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not used for the transport of goods. i welcome the consistency of the data between era and eurostat, and i hope that the relationship between these two european institutions will continue to function as well as possible.
in writing. - the main objective of the european union's transport policy is to create an internal market by promoting common policies that encourage a high level of competitiveness and the harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities. the creation of a genuine internal market is essential for the revitalisation of the railway sector and will contribute to making rail freight and passenger services more competitive and attractive and increasing their modal share of transport. to this end, good statistical treatment and reliable statistics are very important. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the present proposal simplifies procedures by retaining only the detailed declaration requirements and abandoning the current concept of 'simplified declaration'. the burden on member states and respondents is therefore reduced without significant loss of quality of data for rail freight and passenger transport and the deadlines for the provision of rail passenger data. i therefore voted in favour of this amendment on rail transport statistics.
in writing. - the report aims to bring about greater harmonization of the collection of statistics on rail transport between the member states of the union. parliament believes that the commission will be better served if the information collected is based on the same criteria, i.e. is compatible with each other, and if there is intelligent cooperation between eurostat and the european railway agency. i consider it important that this information be collected for further analysis, and i shall therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to enable the interoperability of electronic invoicing in public procurement. i think that this objective should be expressly approved. this measure represents another important step towards a paperless, more efficient and environmentally friendly public administration. the use of electronic invoicing in the award of public contracts, as well as the promotion of electronic procurement procedures in general, should be supported. the european parliament, in its resolution of 20 april 2012, drew attention to the fragmentation of the market resulting from the increasing number of national rules on electronic invoicing and to the need for interoperability solutions for electronic invoicing. the european council also stressed in its current conclusions the importance and urgency of advancing an accessible digital internal market, including electronic invoicing in the award of public contracts. in the various eu member states, there are numerous rules for electronic invoicing which are incompatible with each other and this leads to problems in the cross-border exchange of invoices, in particular in the context of the award of public contracts.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal for a directive is to enable the interoperability of electronic invoicing in public procurement. this measure represents another important step towards a paperless public administration. the use of electronic invoicing in the award of public contracts, as well as the promotion of electronic procurement procedures in general, should be supported, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this directive proposes to define a common european standard for the semantic data model of the essential elements of an electronic invoice in relation to public procurement, without seeking to harmonise national invoicing systems. in order to ensure interoperability, the common european standard should define semantic elements relating to seller and buyer data, process identifiers, delivery information, payment details and deadline and should be compatible with existing standards for payments on demand to allow for the automatic processing of payments. without questioning the ease and reduced additional costs of this process, especially for smes, we cannot separate this directive from the recent eu progress in converging public procurement, i.e. the creation of a european public procurement market.
in writing. - this measure represents another important step towards a paperless public administration. the use of electronic invoicing in the award of public contracts, as well as the promotion of electronic procurement procedures in general, should be supported. this type of initiative leads to a reduction in administrative costs which will benefit all those involved in public procurement. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal for a directive is to enable the interoperability of electronic invoicing in public procurement. this objective must be expressly approved. this measure represents another important step towards paperless public administration. the use of electronic invoicing in the award of public contracts, as well as the promotion of electronic procurement procedures in general, deserves the support of the european parliament, which in its resolution of 20 april 2012 already drew attention to the fragmentation of the market resulting from the increasing number of national rules on electronic invoicing and to the need for interoperability solutions for electronic invoicing. in this regard, the european council also stressed in its current conclusions the importance and urgency of advancing an accessible digital internal market, which also includes electronic invoicing in the award of public contracts. i therefore welcome this proposal, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. - there is a diversity of global, national and regional standards for electronic invoicing currently used in the member states. in the absence of a common standard, member states decide, when promoting or making mandatory the use of electronic invoices in public procurement, to develop their own technical solutions based on different national standards. as a consequence, the number of different standards coexisting in the member states is increasing and is likely to continue to increase in the future. i am in favour of greater harmonisation and transmission of electronic invoices and the commission should ask the competent european standardisation body to draw up a european standard for the semantic data model of the essential elements of an electronic invoice.
in writing. - this directive does not aim to harmonise national invoicing systems, but proposes to define a common european standard for the semantic data model of the essential elements of an electronic invoice in relation to public contracts. in order to ensure interoperability, the common european standard should define semantic elements relating to seller and buyer data, process identifiers, delivery information, payment details and deadline and should be compatible with existing standards for payments on demand to allow for the automatic processing of payments. we do not doubt that this process can facilitate and avoid additional costs, especially for smes. however, we cannot separate this directive from the recent progress of the eu in converging public procurement, i.e. the creation of a european public procurement market. so we abstained.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that regulation (ec) no 1166/2008 of the european parliament and of the council provides for member states to carry out surveys on the structure of agricultural holdings in 2010, 2013 and 2016. member states should receive a maximum financial contribution from the european union of 75% of the cost of carrying out those surveys, taking into account the maximum amounts defined. in order to carry out farm structure surveys and to meet union reporting requirements, member states and the commission require significant budgetary resources. the proposed financial framework should finance only the carrying out of the farm structure surveys in 2016 and the management, maintenance and development of the database systems used in the commission to process the data provided by the member states. in addition, in view of the recent accession of croatia and the need to carry out surveys on the structure of agricultural holdings in that member state in 2016, a maximum union contribution per survey for croatia should be fixed, as the act of accession does not provide for one.
in writing. - with the world population projected to increase gradually over the next few years, it is essential that matters relating to the cap and food production are on the agenda for all of us. from an economic point of view, the eu can only benefit from a consistent agricultural policy covering all member states. the collection of data on agricultural holdings is therefore essential to ensure that rural development funds are distributed equitably and that sustainable production methods and forms are improved, thereby gaining competitive advantages in the global market.
- the structure of agricultural holdings survey is very important for assessing the type of holdings in the member states. however, it has great costs associated with it. the financing of these costs is regulated in this report. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this initiative aims to secure funding for the 2016 farm structure survey and related projects. the regulation on the farm structure surveys and the survey on agricultural production methods requires that the farm structure surveys (fss) be carried out in the form of a census of agricultural holdings in 2010 and in the form of sample surveys in 2013 and 2016. to carry out these surveys, the member states and the commission require significant budgetary resources. as the surveys are divided into two multiannual financial frameworks covering different periods, it was not possible to fix their total funding at the same time. the budgetary and legislative authority shall establish the financial framework for the 2016 eeas on the basis of a proposal from the commission and on the basis of the new financial framework for the period starting in 2014. in addition, account must be taken of the accession of croatia to the european union. this means that the regulation needs to be amended to include the maximum contribution for croatia as well. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, which is aimed precisely at achieving the objectives set out above.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1166/2008 of the european parliament and of the council provides that member states are to carry out surveys on the structure of agricultural holdings in 2010, 2013 and 2016, and that countries are to receive a maximum financial contribution from the union of 75% of the cost of carrying out such surveys. i am in favour of the mobilisation of eur 20 650 000 for the period 2014-2018, as these are the necessary appropriations for the management, maintenance and development of the database systems used in the commission to process the data provided by the member states under the abovementioned regulation.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the member states are responsible for implementing the system established by the legislator. however, uniform implementation of the scheme in the member states should be ensured. the examination procedure should be used for the adoption of acts implementing this regulation, as those acts relate to the common agricultural policy. in order to ensure the efficiency and smooth functioning of the trade arrangements, the commission should also be empowered to carry out certain administrative or management tasks in relation to the fixing of representative prices and trigger volumes for the purposes of import duties and the fixing of the level of the additional import duty, the limitation, rejection or suspension of the issue of import licences for ovalbumin and lactalbumin, the management of the procedure to ensure that the quantities available under the inward processing arrangements are not exceeded without prior examination of economic conditions and the technical measures to adjust the refund to keep expenditure within the limits of the available budget. it should be ensured that the available quantities of the tariff quota are not exceeded and that unused quantities of a tariff quota are reallocated.
in writing. - trade in processed agricultural products, provided they comply with the established food control standards, benefits not only the processing entities but also european farmers themselves. technological progress should not only benefit them but also be available to the primary and secondary sectors in order to maximise their incomes and improve the ways of production.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products, with a view to adapting the existing arrangements to the system of implementing and delegated acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the main objective is to harmonise the regulation in question with the differentiation established by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union concerning the commission's delegated and implementing powers.
in writing. - this report aims to adapt the current trade arrangements for certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products to the system of implementing and delegated acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon. it is important to create a sound legal framework by adapting existing legislation to current practices. in these matters, it is important to delegate more power to the commission, in particular the power to adopt the necessary rules to ensure the implementation of the union's international trade agreements and commitments and to avoid trade distortions. i think it is important to harmonize the current regulation with the differentiation of the commission's powers and implementing powers, so i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - certain agricultural products are used for the production of both processed agricultural products and goods not listed in annex i to the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). measures both linked to the cap and to the common commercial policy are necessary to take account of the impact of trade in those goods on the achievement of the objectives of article 39 tfeu and of the effects of measures adopted to apply article 43 tfeu on the economic situation of those products and goods. i am voting in favour of this regulation establishing the trade arrangements applicable to imports of processed agricultural products and exports of goods not included in annex i to the tfeu and of agricultural products incorporated in those goods not included in annex i. this regulation also applies to imports of agricultural products covered by an international agreement concluded or provisionally applied by the european union in accordance with the tfeu and providing for the assimilation of those products to processed agricultural products which are the subject of preferential trade.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by welcoming the role of the european investment bank in shaping the agreement on the pact for growth and employment, as well as the increase in its lending operations in the field of infrastructure, energy efficiency and the knowledge economy. in this respect, it is hoped that the full potential of the recent capital increase of eur 10 billion will allow for a better and more extensive application of lending for growth and employment in sustainable sectors, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. i therefore ask the commission to reassess its policy on the use of own funds in operations and to look for project opportunities more actively. i hope that it will create incentives for more projects to promote sustainable development in all member states, thereby enabling it to increase its lending activities - particularly in countries under programmes - as a provider of countercyclical capital with a catalytic impact on the real economy.
in writing. - the european investment bank (eib) has recently undergone a capital increase of eur 10 billion, enabling it to increase its investment capacity by 49% for the period 2013-15. the eib, set up in 1958, has the 28 member states of the european union as shareholders and its mission is to provide loans at reduced interest rates to finance projects related to infrastructure improvements, energy supply, etc., both in the eu and in neighbouring countries. it should also be noted that the eib's capital does not come from the eu budget but from the capital markets. the eib also contributes to the development of the european union's energy policy, in particular through the european investment bank (eib) and the european investment bank (eib).
in writing. - we are aware of the importance that european investment bank (eib) loans can have for development and social progress, given the low interest rates and long repayment periods it provides. the report calls for the eib to continue to prioritise the areas of economic and social cohesion, growth and employment, environmental sustainability and to improve access to finance for smes. we're not at odds. however, we cannot accept the eib becoming a mere instrument of the european union for implementing its policies, particularly in responding to the problems of economic and social cohesion and social development, which must be addressed in the community budget and its structural and cohesion funds. the eib can support and reinforce these aspects, but it cannot replace the community's budgetary policies. we totally disagree with the report on the one hand to align the eib priorities with the horizontal priorities of the annual growth survey and the european semester and on the other hand to use the eib to finance the europe 2020 initiative - project finance bonds.
in the case of the european investment bank, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to compete with the other major financial institutions in the world. the eib is a cornerstone and catalyst for the development of eu policies, ensuring a continuous public sector presence, providing investment capacity and ensuring the best possible integration and delivery of eu 2020 flagship initiatives. the annual report we are now examining reflects this, presenting the eib as a major player in over 400 projects in 60 countries and involving some eur 52 billion. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the eib's activity in 2012, which contains a number of recommendations that merit my full agreement, such as: requesting the eib to further increase transparency in respect of loans it grants through financial intermediaries by submitting annual reports on loans to smes; providing aggregated data on the level of payments made to smes, the number of smes targeted, the average size of the loan and the beneficiary sectors, including an assessment of the sme's accessibility to loans and their effectiveness. i would also stress the request to the eib to establish a list of criteria for the selection of financial intermediaries which is rigorous and accessible to the public and the request to the eib to strengthen its collaboration with national public credit institutions in order to maximise the positive impact of its sme financing programmes.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the eib should be able to provide loans to the member states in order to finance projects in the field of energy and transport. i welcome this report which calls on the eib to step up its efforts to support the absorption capacity of member states for eu resources, in particular the structural funds, by developing more joint risk-sharing instruments and adapting existing instruments already financed by the eu budget. i also think it is essential that the eib provides loan guarantees for actions in areas such as knowledge and skills, resource efficiency and energy efficiency, strategic infrastructure and access to finance for smes.
in writing. - we are aware of the importance of european investment bank (eib) loans for development and social progress, given the low interest rates and long repayment periods it provides. the report calls for the eib to continue to prioritise economic and social cohesion, growth and employment and environmental sustainability. it also recommends improving access to finance for smes. we do not disagree with these measures, but we cannot accept the eib becoming a mere instrument of the european union for the implementation of its policies, in particular to respond to the problems of economic and social cohesion and social development, which must be addressed in the community budget and its structural and cohesion funds. we believe that the eib can support and strengthen these aspects, but it cannot replace the community's budgetary policies. we are firmly opposed to the report's call for the eib's priorities to be aligned with the horizontal priorities of the annual growth survey and the european semester and for the eib to be used to finance the europe 2020 initiative - project finance obligations.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that in 2012 more than 2 145 million people were unemployed in the eu, compared to 2011. the estimated risk of poverty was 26% for women and 23.9% for men. millions of women are facing unemployment, precarious employment, reduced wages and pensions, and low starting wages as a result of wage discrimination. these are young women who live in deep uncertainty, trapped between the difficulties of accessing the labour market (with youth unemployment at 23.1%) and the job instability to which they are subject, a reality that calls into question their economic autonomy and without which equal participation in the economic market, in the political and social environment is not possible. this situation forces many women and young women to emigrate from their countries in search of a better life. this is the reality of many workers in industry, commerce and the social sectors who are subject to intense work rhythms, suffer low wages and are subject to poverty, even when they are in the labour market.
in writing. - once again, on a subject which is not controversial, a number of concepts of a social intervention agenda are being proposed which i cannot allow to pass. the eu has no jurisdiction in matters of customs, and as such the so-called fracturing issues that some leftists want to bring to the european parliament have no place here. they are matters of exclusive competence of the states and as such should be legislated by them.
in writing. - this report is based on an inescapable reality - the austerity policies decided by the eu are in place and three eu countries are under troika intervention: greece, ireland, portugal. the consequences are: there are more than 2 145 million unemployed people in the eu, compared to 2011; the risk of poverty was 26% for women and 23.9% for men; 25.4 million children were at risk of poverty or social exclusion; the unemployment rate in the south and periphery of the euro area reached an average of 17.3%, and poverty increased in two thirds of the member states. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the lisbon strategy, and calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the epp decided to reject this report, exposing its conservative matrix regarding the role of women in society.
in writing. - equality between men and women is a fundamental right enshrined in the treaty on european union and the eu charter of fundamental rights. i would also stress that the european union's objectives in this area are to ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women and, in addition, to combat all forms of discrimination based on sex. i am in favour of this report, which should encourage the european commission to develop new initiatives to promote equal pay for women and men, in particular by giving concrete support to the efforts of companies to achieve equality in the workplace.
in writing. - this report is based on an inescapable reality: in 2012, the austerity policies decided by the eu are in place and three eu countries are under troika intervention: greece, ireland, portugal. the consequences are: there are more than 2 145 million unemployed people in the eu, compared to 2011; the risk of poverty was 26% for women and 23.9% for men; 25.4 million children were at risk of poverty or social exclusion; the unemployment rate in the south and periphery of the euro area reached an average of 17.3%; poverty increased in two thirds of the member states; budget cuts in public services have an impact on access to education or health. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the legislation relating to financial markets, services and products is highly fragmented and that the various legal texts create gaps, duplication of the obligation to provide information, institutional divergence and regulatory overlap. this may have unintended consequences and negative impacts on the real economy. furthermore, we should look to the example of the united states of america: they created a federal consumer financial protection agency with a strong mandate. while esas generally operate in a transparent manner by providing information on their websites, there is a need to increase transparency regarding the work and the evolution of their recommendations and proposals, as well as the amount of information on topics such as the intervention groups and the working groups.
in writing. - in this report, the european parliament calls on the european commission to submit a proposal for the revision of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) by 1 july 2014. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is therefore proposed to clarify the roles of supervisory authorities (esas), to strengthen their role in binding mediation in supervisory assessment cases, to give the esas freedom to trigger binding and non-binding mediation actions, and to strengthen their role in conducting stress tests by giving them similar responsibilities and capabilities to the european banking authority in the case of the ssm. all supervisory authorities should also have access to the same supervisory information, which should comply with a common data entry. as regards the european systemic risk board, mechanisms should be made available to enhance its independence and to increase its interinstitutional cooperation. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be an important contribution to cooperation, convergence and quality of financial supervision in the european union.
in writing. - in 2009, following the financial crisis that erupted in 2007, the european union set up a european system of financial supervision (esfs) with three supervisory authorities to identify potential systemic risk situations and to act together more effectively in emergency situations and to resolve possible disagreements between supervisory authorities. however, after a few years it became clear that the mandate of these supervisory authorities needed to be strengthened, in particular the key role they play as mediators of conflicts between national supervisors. i therefore welcome this initiative and congratulate the work being done by these authorities.
in writing. - in this report, the european parliament calls on the commission to submit a proposal for the revision of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) by 1 july 2014. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of proportionality to the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. it is therefore proposed to clarify the roles of supervisory authorities (esas), to strengthen their role in binding mediation in supervisory assessment cases, to give the esas freedom to trigger binding and non-binding mediation actions, and to strengthen their role in conducting stress tests by giving them similar responsibilities and capabilities to the european banking authority in the case of the ssm. all supervisory authorities should also have access to the same supervisory information, which should comply with a common data entry. as regards the european systemic risk board, mechanisms should be made available to enhance its independence and to increase its interinstitutional cooperation. i am voting in favour of this report, considering its important contribution to cooperation, convergence and quality of european financial supervision.
in writing. - in this report, the european parliament calls on the commission to submit a proposal for the revision of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) by 1 july 2014. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of proportionality to the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. it is therefore proposed to clarify the roles of supervisory authorities (esas), to strengthen their role in binding mediation in supervisory assessment cases, to give the esas freedom to trigger binding and non-binding mediation actions, and to strengthen their role in conducting stress tests by giving them similar responsibilities and capabilities to the european banking authority in the case of the ssm. all supervisory authorities should also have access to the same supervisory information, which should comply with a common data entry. as regards the european systemic risk board, mechanisms should be made available to enhance its independence and to increase its interinstitutional cooperation. i voted in favour of this report, considering its important contribution to cooperation, convergence and quality in european financial supervision.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed measures should be implemented in a manner that is compatible with the common market. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the european central bank and the other institutions should be obliged to supervise the various financial systems effectively, so that there is no new european crisis due to the irresponsibility of the financial markets.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that transparency is fundamental to the european union as a democratic political union, in order to enable its citizens to participate fully in the democratic process, with access to all the information necessary for informed participation. secrecy and discretion belong to an era when the construction of europe was done by diplomats and civil servants. transparent administration is in the interest of citizens, combats corruption and gains political and legislative legitimacy, and strengthens citizens' trust in the european project. the european union needs to take further steps to increase the transparency of the administration and the legislative process if it is to achieve greater involvement and participation of citizens in the democratic and legislative decisions of the union. there are many new and interesting initiatives, made possible only by new technologies, which provide a better understanding of the activities of the eu institutions and bring citizens closer together. situations such as leaks of information, which reveal problems and irregularities in the institutions, seriously undermine citizens' trust in the european institutions and alienate them from the european project, which is reflected in very high abstention rates in the european elections, for example.
in writing. - transparency is fundamental to a democratic european union of citizens, in which they can fully participate in the democratic process and exercise public scrutiny. citizens have the right to know how the decision-making process works and how their representatives act, to hold them accountable and to know how public money is distributed and spent. transparency is thus the general rule and any decision to deny access to documents should be based on clearly and rigorously defined legal exceptions, be accompanied by a reasoned and concrete justification that enables citizens to understand the refusal of access and to use effectively the legal remedies at their disposal, while it is equally important to ensure that there is a fast and simplified appeal procedure in order to reduce time-consuming and costly litigation. it is also important to ensure that official documents are not given a higher classification than they should have been and that any closed meetings are accompanied by appropriate justification. i therefore support the existence of an open, efficient and independent european administration, which serves the interests of citizens and combats corruption.
in the first place, the european union is built on treaties, it is made up of states and it is at the service of the people. that is why their participation in the process of european integration is so essential. this is also why the lisbon treaty aims to simplify procedures, bring the language of the treaties closer to the citizens and strengthen transparency and public access to the institutions' documents. these mechanisms are fundamental and the key to an informed and participatory european democracy. for these intentions to be put into practice and for the european union to become truly close to europeans, transparent and accessible, there must be real access to documents, which safeguards the right of citizens to information without jeopardising the necessary confidentiality and protection of classified information.
in writing. - this report assesses the years 2011 to 2013 with regard to the importance of public access to documents, noting that increased transparency and transparent administration benefits the interests of citizens and the fight against corruption. the commission is proposing new measures to increase the transparency of its administration and legislative process, in particular by improving communication with citizens who want specific information, which in many cases is not being provided. the report also calls for the establishment of a european independent authority for the classification of documents and the examination of requests for closed meetings, recommending that each institution appoint a transparency officer. we voted yes.
in writing. - while agreeing that transparency is fundamental to a democratic political union of citizens, in which they can fully participate in the democratic process, i voted against this report because i believe that there are still material and documentation which should not be publicly accessible, because if they were, they could reduce the decision-making capacity of the european institutions.
in writing. - this report deals with the difficulty of public access to european union documents relating to the years 2011-2013. the eu needs to do more to increase the transparency of its administration and its legislative process, as this is a key element for a democratic political union of citizens. i agree that an independent authority should be given the task of classifying documents and that all eu institutions should appoint a transparency officer to simplify access to documents. i hold the same view with regard to documents arising from international agreements, since these also have an impact on eu law and should therefore be in the public domain. i therefore support the measures proposed to clarify the situation for the citizens of the union.
in writing. - this document on public access to documents takes account of the fact that transparency is fundamental to a democratic political union of citizens in which they can participate fully. i believe that the eu needs to take further steps to increase the transparency of its administration and its legislative process, given that its citizens are calling for more transparency, and i therefore voted in favour of the document in the european parliament.
in writing. - the report stresses the importance of transparency and access to documents, and states that a transparent administration benefits the interests of citizens, the fight against corruption, and the legitimacy of the union's political system and legislation. it is proposed that further measures be taken to increase the transparency of its administration and legislative process, in particular by improving communication with citizens who wish to obtain specific information, which in many cases is not being provided. the current legislation is not properly applied by the union institutions. as the case law shows, the institutions often apply the exceptions to transparency in a generalised way, rather than in a specifically justified way. often, partial access to documents is not considered. similarly, official documents are often given higher classification than they should be and institutions request closed meetings without adequate justification. the report also calls for the creation of a european independent authority for the classification of documents and the examination of requests for closed meetings, and recommends that all eu institutions appoint a transparency officer. we voted yes.
in writing. - i know . i welcome this report, recalling that the seventh parliamentary term was marked by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009, which virtually doubled the legislative powers and strengthened the relative power of the european parliament vis-à-vis the other institutions of the european union. the introduction of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty and the final adoption of the new mechanism for citizens' participation - the european citizens' initiative - have had a major impact on the work of the committee on petitions. as this report shows, the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights has proved unclear in practice and to some extent disappointing for many citizens. i am convinced that in the future more and more europeans will be petitioning the european parliament. i therefore call on the european parliament to take urgent measures to ensure that petitions are dealt with effectively and transparently, in order to meet their expectations. the petitions portal, which is currently in a pilot phase, can be a very useful online platform to bring union citizens closer together by informing them about their right to petition.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to ensure that the european parliament's role in the decisionmaking process is more closely coordinated with that of the european parliament. because the idea of europe is essentially about the well-being of its citizens. i also support this initiative, not only to make it more transparent, but also to enable citizens to participate in the decision-making process in a simple and bureaucratically free way.
in the case of the commission, the commission has been able to take account of the views of the european parliament and the council in the preparation of the commission's proposals. however, in percentage terms, and considering the total population of europe, there is still a long way to go to bring the european institutions closer to their population. that is what we are aiming for and that is what we will continue to work towards. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the seventh legislature was marked by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009, which virtually doubled the legislative powers and strengthened the european parliament's relative power vis-à-vis other eu institutions. the introduction of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty and the final adoption of the new mechanism for participation for europe's citizens - the european citizens' initiative - had the greatest impact on the work of the committee on petitions. this has contributed to the increased visibility of the european parliament itself and of the committee on petitions. both the european parliament and the committee on petitions have coherently and deliberately strengthened their communication practices and the visibility of the committee on petitions in the media has been accompanied by a steadily increasing presence on interactive media. i agree with the overall assessment and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - with the treaty of lisbon, the introduction of the charter of fundamental rights in the treaty and the adoption of the european citizens' initiative had a major impact on the work of the committee on petitions. the commission has received and registered some 10 000 petitions since 2009. as regards 2013, the committee on petitions received a total of 2 885 petitions and was able to examine approximately 989 petitions, of which 654 were declared admissible, 335 were declared inadmissible and 538 were closed. in total, 199 petitions were declared admissible, examined and closed. i voted in favour of the document because i consider the work of this committee to be essential and the conclusions of the rapporteur, particularly as regards the high number of inadmissible petitions, to be relevant.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that horticulture represents 18% of the total value of agricultural production in the european union and uses only 3% of the cultivated area of the european union, and is a sector with great potential in the eu. fruit and vegetables play an important role in the diet of today's society and are fundamental to a healthy diet. the sector is quite diverse and is perhaps the most complex and least well understood of the european union's agriculture. there is great optimism about the future of horticulture in the member states, with many and varied opportunities, and the union has an important role to play in developing the potential of the sector. producers grow a wide variety of products with a low environmental impact, most of which must be harvested, processed and distributed in time to meet the standards required of processors, retailers and consumers. it should be taken into account that the european horticultural sector faces numerous challenges, such as adapting to the effects of climate change and providing food for a growing world population.
- horticulture accounts for 18% of the total value of agricultural production in the european union and uses only 3% of the eu's cultivated area. fruit and vegetables (fph) are one of the main elements of a healthy diet. the specificities of this sector should be addressed by the commission with particular attention to better exploiting europe's horticultural capacities, which are essential for food security but also for numerous objectives in terms of reducing emissions, preserving the environment and combating the desertification of rural areas.
in writing. - this report presents the situation in the horticulture sector in a mystifying way, advocating for a sector facing some problems (minor for the rapporteur), greater industrialization and intensification of production, focusing on research and its direct link to the competitiveness of the sector. it advocates the dilution of european environmental and health legislation, for example on pesticides and their use, using arguments such as lack of competitiveness and the need to lower minimum legal standards for pesticides. it uses concepts such as pesticides with acceptable risk to classify pesticides that are endocrine disruptors, or advocating the use of neonicotinoids as unavoidable for production. there is an attempt to whitewash genetic engineering and gmos by referring to cisgenetics as a conventional technique commonly used by growers, and that it should not be treated as a genetic engineering technique, which it is, by calling for more funds to support research into new and innovative techniques for growing and improving crops. a change in policies and production models is needed. the solution for this sector is to end the increasing deregulation and liberalization of agricultural and trade policies, and of export-oriented, intensive production models.
- horticulture accounts for 18% of the total value of agricultural production in the european union and uses only 3% of the eu's cultivated area. fruit and vegetables (fph) play an important role in today's society and are one of the main elements of a healthy diet. the sector is quite diverse and is perhaps the most complex and least well understood sector of eu agriculture. there is great optimism about the future of horticulture in the member states, the opportunities are many and varied, and the eu has an important role to play in exploiting the sector's enormous potential. it is therefore a very important sector of agriculture with a great future. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the importance of the european horticultural sector for food safety in europe makes this own-initiative report a basis for future consideration of the entire production and distribution chain. the economic crisis itself has increased the costs of raw materials and reduced the profit for producers. i also think it is important to consider environmental sustainability and the impact of the sector on climate change. on the other hand, it is important to maintain quality criteria and at the same time to use innovation and research funding for the sector efficiently. for the reasons stated above, i am in favour of this report.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. using arguments such as lack of competitiveness, it argues for the weakening of european legislation on the environment and health. for example, on pesticides and their use, it considers it necessary to lower the legal minimum standards for pesticides, uses concepts such as pesticides with acceptable risk to classify pesticides that are endocrine disruptors, and defends the use of neonicotinoids as unavoidable for production. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in the production of food. the solution for this sector is to end the increasing deregulation and liberalization of agricultural and trade policies, and of export-oriented, intensive production models. a change in policies and production models is imperative.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by stressing that the prohibition of torture is absolute under international and humanitarian law and the un convention against torture. torture is one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, causing physical and psychological suffering to millions of people and their families. this act cannot be tolerated under any justification. i would remind you that it is necessary to define an integrated and comprehensive strategy to combat torture by tackling the underlying causes. i believe that this must include overall institutional transparency and greater political will at member state level to combat ill-treatment and acts of violence. i also stress the urgent need to tackle the underlying causes of such acts, such as poverty, inequalities, discrimination and violence, through national prevention mechanisms and the strengthening of the action of local authorities and ngos. i stress the need to continue to develop european union cooperation in the development of human rights enforcement mechanisms in order to address the underlying causes of violence by tackling it at its source.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the ec treaty in respect of the application of the principle of proportionality. although prohibited, torture is still practised in many countries and constitutes one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is why the eu, in all its policies, must take into account the objective of eradicating torture worldwide as a way of enforcing one of the most basic fundamental rights.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of a proposal to the council for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. unfortunately, in the 21st century, we still encounter situations of torture. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the eradication of torture in the world, which stresses that the prohibition of torture is absolute under international and humanitarian law and the cat and emphasises that torture in all its forms constitutes one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, causes terrible suffering to millions of people and their families and cannot be justified under any circumstances.
in writing. - despite being enshrined in two united nations conventions (the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and the additional protocol) and also in the european convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment itself, torture still exists and persists in various forms. this own-initiative report thus aims to demonstrate that the union, through its internal and external policies, continues to promote the abolition of torture in all its forms. this principle, which i fully subscribe to, and the actions which underlie it, lead me to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by encouraging saudi arabia to fulfil its commitments to women, such as the right to vote and stand in the 2015 municipal elections; the appointment of 30 women to the shura council, i.e. 20% of the total membership of this council. another key point at this level is the passing of a law protecting women, children and domestic workers from abuse, as well as the granting of licences allowing women to practise law. i therefore encourage the saudi authorities to ensure that the measures adopted in favour of women's rights are applied in both urban and rural areas. i also urge the european union to continue its dialogue with saudi arabia to support further reforms that contribute to the strengthening of human rights, including the promotion of gender equality, the empowerment and improvement of women's well-being and the encouragement of women's presence at the negotiating table of bilateral agreements.
in writing. - the kingdom of saudi arabia is an influential political, economic and religious player in the middle east and the islamic world, the world's largest oil producer and a founder and leading member of the gulf cooperation council (gcc) and the g-20. the kingdom of saudi arabia is an important partner for the eu. there is an interdependence between the eu and the kingdom of saudi arabia in terms of regional stability, relations with the islamic world, the outcome of transitions in the arab spring countries, the israeli-palestinian peace process, the war in syria, improved relations with iran, the fight against terrorism, stability of world oil and financial markets, trade, investment and global governance issues, in particular through the world bank, the international monetary fund and the g20. the eu must continue to press saudi arabia to improve human rights aspects, as there is still a long way to go towards equal rights in the kingdom. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on saudi arabia, its relations with the eu and its role in the middle east and north africa, which stresses the european interest in a peaceful and orderly development and political reform process in the kingdom of saudi arabia as a key factor for long-term peace, stability and development in the region.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the european union is prepared to take action to ensure that the peace process in the region is not disrupted by the threat of a nuclear war. the arab revolution, the war in syria, the role of an interlocutor with iran and the israeli-palestinian peace process make saudi arabia an important partner of the union. at the same time, both face common challenges, such as the impacts of migration, energy security and international terrorism. however, we must not forget that the fundamental principle of human rights must be fully respected. with the second largest oil reserves and the sixth largest natural gas reserves in the world, saudi arabia takes a leading role in the gulf cooperation council and the g-20. i am voting in favour of this own-initiative report.
madam president, madam vice-president, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a time when the value of data protection as a fundamental right is becoming increasingly evident. it's mind-boggling how much personal data is collected and stored every day: the people we know, the music we like, the books and news we read, the money we spend, and so on. the successive scandals we have seen involving security forces from member states of the union and friendly states have reinforced public awareness of the dangers we face and we know that new technologies make this dangerous task easier. european citizens therefore have reason to demand adequate protection of their privacy and hope that their rights and freedoms can be safeguarded and guaranteed. i congratulate viviane reding on her proposal and on the fact that it largely incorporates the recommendations contained in the european parliament's 2011 resolution. although we would have preferred a single instrument, we have accepted the division between a directive and a regulation. the result achieved with the regulation and the directive is far from perfect and i believe that it can be improved. but we cannot accept that the council should proceed with the regulation alone, which would undermine the great aim of this reform, which is to create a legislative body covering all issues and all areas, providing greater clarity and legal certainty and regaining the confidence of the citizens. i therefore call for both reports to be made viable and i congratulate both rapporteurs. there are no perfect solutions, but they are good negotiating platforms for dialogue with the council.
i think the most important thing that's been said in this debate, since it started eight months ago, was said by edward snowden himself, who said, governments cannot do what they're doing on this scale with access to this level of information and with the means they have, without democracy making its decision, without the representatives of the citizens speaking. the citizens' representatives are here and they are speaking, and we are proud that the european parliament was the only parliament to carry out such an inquiry to the end, but on the other hand we have the feeling that we are not being heard. and why don't they listen to us? because they are listening all the time to what we say on our phone calls, our emails, our skype calls, our facebook messages, less to what we say in the plenaries of our parliaments. i therefore appeal to the european commission: we know when the united states starts listening to us, it's when we turn off the information tap. there is at least one agreement, the swift agreement, which the european commission can terminate at any time, which we know is being used beyond its mandate. madam vice president, i call on you to shut down the swift agreement so that instead of listening to what we say through our bank transfers, the united states finally listens to what we say from inside this room.
the european union's relationship with the united states has been shaken by edward snowden's revelations about the nsa's spying activities. the united states has spied and spies, rightly and wrongly, on the communications of european citizens, heads of state and economic agents, using the imperative of internal security embodied in the patriot act and the anti-terrorism legislation adopted after 11 september, which is largely incompatible with the united states' obligations under international law and human rights in particular. and in fact, they are disqualifying the fight against terrorism. the americans argue, and regrettably rightly, that this data was and is provided by the european intelligence services, which in most countries are still under real democratic control. we hope that this scandal will at least serve to force us to review the procedures and to establish democratic scrutiny of the information services in all the member states. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of cases of fraud in the union, the number of cases of fraud in the member states and the number of cases of fraud in the union. the snowden revelations and the reactions to them, including the important moraes report (here i pay tribute to our colleague who brought it forward), should lead us to a different kind of cooperation with the united states. the internet certainly opens up new doors but also new risks and therefore there has to be a rethinking of the rules on data importation in order to balance the dilemmas between security and privacy of communications. in the framework of the negotiation of the transatlantic trade and investment agreement, this issue has to be taken into account - the protection of our citizens' data - and it is good that this is done before the model agreement itself. we must ensure that european citizens can have administrative and judicial recourse in the united states of america when their privacy is violated and therefore also claim rights of redress. we must also ensure reciprocity in the passenger name record, ensure that the transfer of data of passengers flying to europe also takes place and it is time to review the safe harbour, which is outdated, and review the swift agreement, ensuring reciprocity and redress for european citizens. it is another aspect, which is vital in this report, which is to ensure the protection of whistleblowers, as is the case with edward snowden. without them, we would be more helpless and more ignorant of what is happening in terms of privacy violations today.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr claude moraes on his competent and dedicated work in such a short time. i agree with all those who have stressed today that the european parliament has made its voice heard when the council is complicit and embarrassedly silent. we've been through this before with the echelon report. when we're confronted with abuses like the ones we've investigated, we would lose credibility if we pretended that nothing happened. at the end of this research, we can say three things clearly: first, there are strong and compelling reasons to stress that our citizens must be protected and their privacy respected. the second is that when agreements are made between states on the transfer of data, they must be respected, otherwise they are null and void and can be denounced. and the third is that there is a growing idea that in western democracies, the activities of the secret services are getting out of control and a police state may start to emerge. more judicial control and better parliamentary control are indispensable.
commissioner, let us be clear, the intention of this package is to liberalise and commercialise airspace management in europe, to move into a new business area, to make airspace management in line with the interests of the major airlines. everything is subordinated to this goal. the fragmentation of national air navigation service providers means dismantling these companies, which today operate by ensuring high quality standards in their performance, means calling into question not only this quality but the entire safety chain, calling into question thousands of jobs, particularly in peripheral countries, calling into question the sovereignty of each state over its airspace in an area where the treaties do not give the union competence: employment, safety, environmental sustainability, route efficiency. it is in the context of public ownership and management of this sector that all these issues can and should be better balanced and not in the context of its liberalisation.
mr president, banking union is perhaps the most important legacy that this parliament and this commission can leave to rebuild the european union after the crisis. an agreement with the council is still technically possible before the end of the mandate, provided there is the political will to do so. the commission's contribution has been fundamental in the construction of the legislative text, but this parliament would have liked to see the commission much more active, much more determined in defending the community legislative process. as for the council, the presence at today's trialogue of the president-in-office of ecofin, ioannis tornaras, accompanied by the president of the eurogroup, jeoren dijsselbloem, is a gesture of great symbolism, provided that they are accompanied by a negotiating process and serious proposals that allow for consensus. the time-table for negotiations is running out, but urgency cannot be sacrificed for the quality of the texts we produce. this parliament is united. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the reporting team, the main political groups, its president and a clear negotiating mandate. we want a banking resolution that is free from political power games, that is effective and credible. bank losses must be passed on to shareholders and creditors and taxpayers must be spared. the financial means to operationalize the resolution will be financed by the banks in accordance with their risk profile, but a credit line to be reimbursed by the banks' own contributions is necessary to be credible from the outset. within these principles parliament is open to negotiation. without them, agreement becomes impossible because a bad agreement would forever tarnish the credibility of the banking union. we are sincerely committed to closing the legislative text, but it takes two to do it. we are aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty for a long time.
the first point i wanted to stress, and which is decisive for us now, in connection with the trilogue taking place today and in particular the impetus which the european council and the members of the european council, the prime ministers and the heads of state can give to this dossier, is the question of banking union. it is absolutely essential that the council should be open and flexible in its approach to the positions which both parliament and the european commission have defended and which, by the way, the portuguese government, headed by prime minister passos coelho, has systematically drawn attention to within the european council to the importance of a real banking union and not an intergovernmental fragmentation of the banking union. not only the prime minister but also the minister for finance and the minister for foreign affairs recently came to defend the importance of the banking union, one at the epp congress and the other at a summit with the german foreign minister steinmeier. it is essential that companies throughout europe, particularly in countries such as greece, portugal, ireland, cyprus, spain, italy and others, which have exactly the same performance as companies in the north, have the same financing conditions, are not penalized by the situation in their countries. it is essential that if a company is good and has good numbers it has exactly the same financing conditions, whether it is located in lisbon, or whether it is located in berlin, whether it is located in stockholm or whether it is located in athens. it's absolutely fundamental and that was the message i wanted to leave.
mr president, how can there be any credible and efficient commercial policy, industrial policy or competition policy if the council and the commission continue to overlook the race to the bottom in terms of taxation amongst member states – if they continue to overlook the scandal of tax evasion? recently the us senate issued a report and conducted hearings showing that swiss banks are heavily involved in tax fraud exercises for american taxpayers. the same is happening to european taxpayers while, at the same time as they are demanding terrible taxes from the middle classes and the poor in countries like mine, portugal, the rich and the super-rich are taking advantage of this system. that is absolutely untenable. so what are the council and the commission doing to put an end to this?
mr president, provocative actions in crimea are a violation of a bilateral agreement with ukraine and a violation of the budapest agreement with all of the other p5 countries. the crimea referendum amounts to russian aggression and a challenge to the territorial integrity of ukraine. mr putin is playing with fire, fuelling lies and bigotry about the ukrainian revolution and resorting to the same bogus arguments that were used in the sudetenland decades ago, with devastating consequences for europe and the world. the eu must stand by the people of ukraine as well as the people of russia, who are both victims of the irresponsible, vengeful hubris and, indeed, weakness of vladimir putin. we do not want war. to press for a diplomatic solution, we must demand that the council immediately enacts the targeted sanctions against ukrainian oligarchs and politicians involved in human rights violations and corruption, so that assets stolen are recovered by ukraine. it must also enact similar asset-stripping measures and visa bans against the russian leadership and the oligarchs responsible for this dangerous escalation. support … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the title of this debate - adopting a wording which has not been used in the european council - is extremely revealing about the approach of the majority of this parliament to the situation in ukraine. not a word about the coup d'état carried out by the most reactionary sectors of the ukrainian oligarchy (with external support), after months of destabilization and violence, after the announcement of the suspension of the signing of the association agreement with the eu and instrumentalising the deep and just discontent of broad layers of the population, resulting from the social and economic disaster of the restoration of capitalism in ukraine over the last two decades. not a word about the brutal interference and destabilisation of the us, eu and nato in the internal situation in ukraine which, by promoting and supporting far-right, neo-nazi and xenophobic forces and by fomenting the exacerbation of tensions, divisions and schisms, aims to secure the political, economic and military dominance of this huge country. this is a dangerous path, which represents an increased threat to security and peace in europe and the world. we strongly condemn the promotion of far-right, fascist and neo-nazi forces and anti-communism in ukraine, which constitutes a serious threat to democracy, rights and freedoms and to the very integrity and sovereignty of the country.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that pakistan is vulnerable to a wide range of risks, including floods and earthquakes, and that the volatility of the security situation and social challenges in pakistan are contributing to its increased vulnerability. furthermore, taking into account that the disasters of recent years have exhausted the response strategies of already impoverished communities and have drastically reduced their resilience to future disasters, i consider that the objective of the five-year engagement plan concluded in 2012 between the european union and pakistan is to develop a strategic relationship and establish a partnership for peace and development based on common values and principles. i would remind you that the issue of inequality and the feudal nature of land ownership in rural pakistan remains unresolved and that 2.5% of the population owns 40% of the land, while about half of the rural population is landless. finally, i would stress that the lack of land and access to irrigation water and other production facilities perpetuates rural poverty and social instability.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the countries of the former soviet union. the fact that it is not a signatory to the npt and at the same time has nuclear weapons makes it a regional power. the presence of terrorist groups in the country and its proximity to conflict zones make it of paramount importance that eu-pakistan relations be intensified in order to be a driver of stability in the region by making every effort to become a signatory to the npt. political relations between the eu and pakistan should be intensified as a way of extending to trade relations.
in writing. - the strategic role of pakistan, its neighbourhood relations and eu-pakistan relations are becoming increasingly relevant to the eu, given the country's crucial location in the heart of a volatile region, its centrality to the security and development of central and south asia, and its key role in combating terrorism, non-proliferation, drug and human trafficking and other transnational threats, which affect the security and well-being of european citizens as a whole. the march 2013 elections consolidated democracy in pakistan, and i think it is important that it becomes stronger and stronger, given the great importance of this country in the geostrategic balance of the region in which it is inserted.
in the first place, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the union should strengthen its support for a democratic, secure and well-governed pakistan with an independent judiciary and good governance that respects the rule of law and human rights. in matters of security it is extremely necessary that the pakistani government fulfils its obligations and responsibilities. it is also important to make it clear to the pakistani authorities that the export of nuclear weapons to third countries is unacceptable. i agree with the rapporteur that pakistan's signing and ratification of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is a necessary step. i am in favour of this report, because i agree with what is said in it and because i believe that relations between the union and pakistan should be deepened and broadened through political dialogue in the interests of democratizing the country.
in writing. - the strategic role of pakistan, its neighbourhood relations and eu-pakistan relations are becoming increasingly relevant to the eu, given its location in a volatile region, its centrality to the security and development of asia, and its key role in combating terrorism, non-proliferation, drug and human trafficking and other transnational threats. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the building of a sustainable democracy and a pluralistic society still requires important and necessary reforms.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that as ballistic missile defence technologies are developed and implemented, new dynamics are emerging in the field of european security, generating a need for member states to take account of the implications of ballistic missile defence for their security. i would also remind you that nato's ballistic missile defence measures are designed and implemented to defend its member states against potential ballistic missile attacks. i therefore call on the vice-president/high representative to pursue a strategic partnership with nato, taking into account the issue of ballistic missile defence, which should lead to the establishment of full coverage and protection for all member states, thus avoiding a situation where the security available to them is in any way differentiated. i also welcome the achievements of the nato interim ballistic missile defence capability, which will provide maximum coverage, depending on the means available, to defend the populations, territories and forces of nato member states in southern europe against ballistic missile attacks. i also welcome the objective of providing full cover and protection for the european nato member states by the end of the decade.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the european union is proposing to extend the mandate of the european union to include the middle east, the middle east and the horn of africa. the eu as an area of freedom and democracy must also be a place of security, with its own defence capability, thus preventing any accidents from happening.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the middle east. as new ballistic missile defence technologies are developed and deployed, new dynamics are emerging in the field of european security, generating a need for member states to take into account the implications of ballistic missile defence for their security. the development of these technologies is aimed at defending member states against potential future attacks. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on a missile shield for europe and its political and strategic implications, which recalls that nato's ballistic missile defence measures are developed and implemented to defend its member states against potential ballistic missile attacks. in this context, the eu vice-president/high representative is called upon to pursue a strategic partnership with nato, taking into account the issue of ballistic missile defence, which should lead to the establishment of full coverage and protection for all member states, thus avoiding a situation where the security available to them is in any way differentiated.
in writing. - defence against ballistic missile or other types of missile attacks can be a positive development for european security in the context of rapid international security dynamics, with a number of state and non-state actors developing missile technology and a number of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) defence capabilities that could potentially reach european territory. i am in favour of the creation of a missile shield, and ballistic missile defence technologies should be developed. new dynamics are emerging in the field of european security, generating a need for member states to take into account the implications of ballistic missile defence for their security. i would also like to stress that nato's ballistic missile defence plan is not at all targeted at russia and that nato is prepared to cooperate with russia on the basis of cooperation between the two independent missile defence systems.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that the european fisheries sector faces a number of challenges: the catch sub-sector has to deal with rising fuel costs, labour shortages and quota limitations. the processing sub-sector is subject to constraints in the supply of raw materials and competition from imports from third countries. the aquaculture sub-sector also faces competition from imports, low prices for certain species, strict environmental regulations and conflicts over land use. the current situation of the european fisheries sector is seriously undermining its competitive position, especially at a time when the global market is being liberalized and at the same time as some developing countries, where marine resources are abundant, are beginning to become the new fishing powers.
in the light of the recent developments in the fisheries sector, the commission has decided to extend the current fishing quotas to the following areas: the agreement with thailand is very positive in fisheries trade and could be beneficial for the eu to preserve its fish levels in the oceans and help thailand economically. the aquaculture sector should be integrated into this agreement.
in writing. - we have already had occasion on several occasions to denounce the consequences that free trade agreements will have, particularly in countries with weaker economies, such as portugal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the free trade agreement currently being negotiated between the eu and thailand could have serious consequences for the portuguese and spanish fish canning industries. even with the current 24% import duty rate on thai canned goods, thailand is already the largest exporter to the eu. if this tax were to be abolished, the practical effect would be to flood the european market with thai canned goods and to eliminate the factories in portugal and spain. the report, although it contains some concerns about the consequences of the signing of this agreement for the fisheries sector, does not advocate the total exclusion of preserves from this agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive.
in writing. - the european fisheries sector faces a number of challenges: the catch sub-sector has to cope with rising fuel costs, labour shortages and quota constraints. the processing sub-sector is subject to constraints in the supply of raw materials and competition from imports from third countries. the aquaculture sub-sector also faces competition from imports, low prices for certain species, strict environmental regulations and conflicts over land use. the european fisheries and processing industry is essential to supply food to european citizens and to support the livelihoods of coastal regions. securing its future is, and should be, an important political objective for the eu.
in writing. - this report deals with the situation and future prospects of the european fisheries sector in the context of the free trade agreement (fta) between the european union and thailand. this country is the world's largest producer of canned tuna, exporting over 91 000 tonnes of these products to the eu annually. in this context, the consequences of this lca for the eu canning industry are of great concern, as the liberalisation of the entry of canned tuna from thailand into the eu market would pose a serious threat to this sector with very negative repercussions at social, economic and employment levels. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to grant a derogation to certain products from the eu tariff quota. in view of the economic and social crisis in europe, it is urgent to avoid negative consequences of these negotiations between the eu and thailand and to safeguard the interests of the european canning industry, and it is essential to do this by classifying canned tuna as a sensitive product in terms of customs liberalization under this lca. it is precisely in this spirit that i have tabled several amendments which have been duly incorporated in this document, which is why i voted in favour of this important report.
in writing. - the conclusion of an eu-asean free trade agreement has been an important objective for the eu since 2007, when it began negotiations with the south east asian nations with the intention of concluding a joint agreement with 7 of its members, including thailand. however, in the absence of progress in trade negotiations at regional level, the european commission announced the opening of bilateral negotiations in 2009 and is now negotiating with thailand. the first round of negotiations with thailand began in may and both sides have expressed their political commitment to conclude an agreement within two years, and i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - the free trade agreement currently being negotiated between the eu and thailand could have serious consequences for the portuguese and spanish fish canning industries. despite the current 24% import duty rate on thai canned goods, thailand is already the largest exporter to the eu. if this tax were abolished, the practical effect would be to flood the european market with thai canned goods and the consequent disappearance of factories in portugal and spain. the report, although it contains some concerns about the consequences of the signing of this agreement in the fisheries sector, does not advocate the total exclusion of preserves from this agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. we want to denounce once again the consequences that free trade agreements will have, particularly in countries with weaker economies, such as portugal: we are talking about the accentuation of existing inequalities, the serious effects of deregulation of trade and the free movement of capital.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that inadequate nutrition is the main cause of obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, gastric problems, etc. of course, the problem is not just poor nutrition. also having a great influence on all these pathologies is lack of physical exercise, the ingestion of harmful products such as drugs, excessive alcohol or tobacco, and lack of emotional control. but without a doubt, food is the key element. if we are to avoid extraordinary and hardly bearable expenditure, even in the most developed societies, to cure diseases and pathologies resulting from a poor diet, it is absolutely essential to incorporate knowledge of food-nutrition and taste-related workshops, as well as food-gastronomy knowledge and culture, into the educational systems of the different countries.
in writing. - gastronomy is one of the most intrinsic factors that characterizes the culture of a people. gastronomy, sometimes, is what makes us different as europeans. events to promote europe's vast gastronomic heritage should be on our agenda, showing what each region in our member states has to offer in terms of the best of its gastronomy.
- the developments in recent years have shown that food, in its broadest sense, is of extraordinary importance in contemporary society. poor diet is responsible for a large number of diseases that cost millions of dollars in health care costs. we need to teach the new generations the importance of healthy eating.
- the developments in recent years have shown that food, in its broadest sense, is of extraordinary importance in contemporary society. on the one hand, within the framework of the millennium development goals, greater efforts must be made to put an end to hunger and the problems of drinking water in all those countries which still suffer from this humanitarian scourge, which is absolutely unacceptable in the 21st century. on the other hand, it is surprising that food has become a fundamental cause of diseases and pathologies that generate extraordinary costs in public or private health care in developed countries with acceptable economic levels, due to lack of culture and/or education. in fact, improper diet is the leading cause of obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, gastric problems, and so forth. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the vital need for the european union to develop food and gastronomy education policies.
in the case of the european union, the importance of gastronomy as a distinctive and distinctive element makes europe a unique gastronomic location. tourism itself already has a specific product for gastronomy that leads thousands of people to visit new regions and new countries in search of new flavors. however, we should not forget the importance of a healthy and balanced diet and eating habits in order to prevent diseases such as obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes. for these reasons, this own-initiative report calls on the member states to include this same concern in their educational programmes. it also called on the commission to carry out a study assessing the impact of union policies on the quality and diversity of production in the union. for the reasons stated above, i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that since the adoption of directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, much has changed in the field of data protection, in particular in terms of technological developments, the increased collection and processing of personal data, including for law enforcement purposes, a wide diversity of data protection rules and a globalisation of markets and cooperation. in addition, this directive has not achieved adequate harmonisation due to divergent application of its provisions in the member states. in this context, individuals (data subjects) are finding it increasingly difficult to exercise their right to data protection. finally, it has hampered the development of the single market, as companies (which control or process personal data), (data controllers) and individuals face different data protection requirements.
in writing. - almost 20 years after the adoption of directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, it is necessary to recognise that rapid technological development and globalisation have significantly changed the world and have created new challenges in terms of data protection. at the same time, there is a proliferation of data collection means and methods that constantly challenge the capacity to control and monitor both the data subjects of the data collected and the authorities responsible for their legality and for the protection of personal identity and privacy. the fact that a large part of the communication of many citizens in the member states is already carried out via the internet is a clear example of the importance and sensitivity of this matter. i believe that the union cannot afford to neglect its responsibilities in this respect, which is why i support the objective of strengthening the right to the protection of personal data, while ensuring a unified legal framework and reducing the administrative burden on data controllers.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 93 (2) of the treaty. sharing and collecting data has increased dramatically. new technologies allow private companies and public bodies to use personal data on an unprecedented scale in the course of their activities. people are increasingly making their personal information available in a public and global way. new technologies have transformed the economy and social life. it is therefore time to adopt a stronger and more coherent data protection legal framework in the eu, backed by strict enforcement of the rules, which allows the digital economy to develop throughout the internal market, gives individuals control over their own data and strengthens legal and practical certainty for economic operators and public entities. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - since the entry into force of directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, much has changed in the field of data protection, in particular in terms of technological developments, the increased collection and processing of personal data, including for law enforcement purposes, a wide diversity of data protection rules and a globalisation of markets and cooperation. however, this directive has not achieved adequate harmonisation due to divergent application of its provisions in the member states. in this context, individuals (data subjects) are finding it increasingly difficult to exercise their right to data protection and, in some cases, various situations have hampered the development of the single market, as companies (who control or process personal data, data controllers) and individuals are faced with different data protection requirements. it is these obstacles that are to be removed and that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation aims to update the principles contained in a directive dating from 1995 to take account of the major developments and changes in the processing of data collected on the internet. the document covers two types of data: data processed on the internet and data processed off the internet. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the proposal for a regulation aims to extend the application of the regulation, known as the pericles 2020 programme, to the member states not participating in the adoption of the euro as the single currency. the pericles 2020 initiative builds on the programme established by council decision 2001/923/ec, as subsequently amended, with the aim of creating measures to protect the euro against counterfeiting. the legal basis for this proposal is articles 133 and 139 (2) (f) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provide that the european parliament and the council are to establish the measures necessary for the use of the euro as the single currency, including the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. finally, the implementation of the extension of the péricles programme is carried out by means of a parallel proposal for a regulation, in accordance with article 352 tfeu. evaluations in 2004 and 2011 indicated that the programme had achieved its objectives and should be continued. i therefore believe that its extension to the other member states will make it possible to improve it, contributing to making the prevention and suppression of euro counterfeiting more effective.
in writing. - the importance of protecting the euro against counterfeiting is as important for the euro area countries as it is for those bordering on it. it is not just the reliability of the currency that is at stake, but also the harm to those who are harmed by using counterfeit currency. i am in full support of this proposal and as i have always said, our job is to protect the citizens.
in writing. the commission is proposing to extend the application of the pericles 2020 programme to member states not participating in the adoption of the euro as the single currency. the pericles 2020 initiative builds on the programme established by the council decision which aims to create measures to protect the euro against counterfeiting. the legal basis for this proposal is the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which provides that the european parliament and the council are to establish the measures necessary for the use of the euro as the single currency, including the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. parliament considered that the extension of the programme to the other member states would improve it and help to make the prevention and suppression of euro counterfeiting more effective. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes that this legislative proposal be adopted without amendments.
in writing. the commission is proposing to extend the application of the pericles 2020 programme to non-euro area member states. i am in favour of the continuation of this programme as it has demonstrated in the recent past that its objectives have been achieved and has been largely successful in the evaluations carried out in 2004 and 2011. i would also like to stress that this programme will actively contribute to increasing the efficiency of the prevention and suppression of euro counterfeiting.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the process of deepening relations between the european union and azerbaijan will certainly contribute to widening the borders of the area of freedom, security and justice. in this context, i consider, in line with the opinion of the european commission and the council and taking into account the opinion drawn up by the committee on foreign affairs of the european parliament after several rounds of negotiations, that azerbaijan is now in a position to conclude the visa liberalisation agreement as well as the agreement on the readmission of irregular residents. in my view, the conclusion of these two agreements represents a step forward in cooperation in the field of mobility. the new rules introduced in the agreements will make the procedures simpler and faster. the conclusion of the agreements is also the result of the desire for continued and deepened rapprochement expressed by the european union and azerbaijan over several years. the agreements, in my view, thus have political and procedural importance.
in writing. - relations between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan began in 1996 with the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). further steps were subsequently taken towards deepening cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan. this is where this visa facilitation agreement comes in. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - relations between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan began in 1996 with the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). in 2009, the european union proposed a new initiative to strengthen relations with its neighbours, with a view to deepening relations with certain eastern european countries: the eastern partnership, in which the republic of azerbaijan also participates. the aim of this partnership is to create the conditions necessary to accelerate political association and economic integration between the european union and the participating states. i voted in favour of this proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, which represents a positive development in eu-azerbaijan relations. visa liberalisation remains a common objective both of the individual partner countries and of the eu for the benefit of the general population.
in writing. - on 16 september 2011, the commission presented a recommendation to the council with a view to obtaining authorisation to open negotiations with the republic of azerbaijan on an agreement on visa facilitation and an agreement on the readmission of irregular residents. the council has authorised two agreements, and some rounds of negotiations have been held for a visa agreement and a readmission agreement. the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the facilitation of the issuance of visas represents a step forward in cooperation in the field of mobility and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i approve the present report, and i should like to say that, as regards the readmission agreement, it should be noted first of all that the obligations relating to readmission are established on a basis of complete reciprocity. it was stressed from the outset that the agreement must be applied in such a way as to ensure respect for human rights. the terms of the agreement include an obligation to readmit former nationals who have renounced their nationality without having acquired the nationality of another state. the rules on readmission also apply to family members. the readmission conditions laid down in the agreement cover persons who, at the time of the application, have a valid visa or residence permit, as well as persons who have entered the territory of the requesting state illegally after having stayed in or transited through the requested state.
in writing. - relations between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan began in 1996 with the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). further steps were subsequently taken towards deepening cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan. this agreement on the readmission of illegal residents is part of that framework. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the eastern partnership, in which the republic of azerbaijan participates, aims to create the conditions necessary to accelerate political association and economic integration between the european union and the participating states. the european parliament considers that there is a sufficiently robust framework in azerbaijan to ensure that the rights of persons covered by the agreement will be respected. the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation should be concluded in a timely manner and enter into force at the same time as the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, as the two are interlinked. in this context, i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the readmission of persons residing without authorization.
in writing. - on 16 september 2011, the commission presented a recommendation to the council with a view to obtaining authorisation to open negotiations with the republic of azerbaijan on an agreement on visa facilitation and an agreement on the readmission of irregular residents. the council has authorised two agreements, and some rounds of negotiations have been held for a visa agreement and a readmission agreement. the proposed decision to conclude the agreement contains a set of elements normally present in readmission agreements concluded between the eu and third countries, and i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that the estimated number of children currently involved in armed conflict ranges widely between 250 000 and 800 000. it is estimated that since 1996 six million children have been injured and approximately two million have died as a result of armed conflict. some 20 million children have been displaced by armed conflict or have been victims of repeated human rights violations. in addition, between 8 000 and 10 000 children are killed or maimed by landmines every year. children are often the most affected by armed conflict and are most at risk of multiple and repeated violations of their most basic rights. i therefore agree with the objective of achieving better compliance with international humanitarian law and international human rights law, which will remain an unattainable objective if a systematic and permanent dialogue with non-state armed groups is not established and if such dialogue is not accepted as necessary.
in writing. - the eu must work together with other humanitarian organisations to develop joint actions to protect children, preventing them from being exploited and facing, from an early age, the worst adversities that human life can bring. we must stand by children so that the eu is seen as one of the most relevant international actors in child protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child labour in the member states. children are often the most affected by armed conflict and are most at risk of multiple and repeated violations of their most basic rights. the estimated number of children currently involved in armed conflict ranges widely between 250 000 and 800 000. it is necessary to promote the signing of action plans aimed at protecting children in armed conflict. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the aim of this recommendation is to support the international campaign and to promote the signing of action plans aimed at protecting children in armed conflict. i believe that the signing of action plans for the protection of children in armed conflict should be encouraged and that states and armed non-state actors should respect international humanitarian law and support their efforts to take measures to protect civilians, particularly children, so i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report as it decides, inter alia, that the parliamentary committees set up on the basis of the economic partnership agreement will be composed exclusively of members of the committee on international trade and the committee on development ensuring the maintenance of the preponderant role of the committee on international trade as the committee responsible for the subject matter and should actively coordinate their work with the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i also agree with the provision that the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean, the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly and the euronest parliamentary assembly will be composed exclusively of members of the bilateral and subregional delegations represented in each assembly. finally, the delegation for relations with the nato parliamentary assembly will be made up exclusively of members of the subcommittee on security and defence.
in writing. - i am particularly pleased that the delegation for relations with the federative republic of brazil has been set up. for many years now, brazil, in view of its growing importance in the world economy, has been deserving of being accompanied by an autonomous delegation and not within the framework of the mercosur delegation. i hope that this new step in eu-brazil relations will bear fruit in the near future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision of the european parliament concerning the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies, by which the number of seats and their composition are redefined. this decision shall enter into force at the first part-session of the eighth parliamentary term. i would have appreciated the inclusion of standards for members as regards the levels of participation in their programme.
in writing. - the conference of presidents, taking into account the association and cooperation agreements and other agreements concluded by the european union with third countries, decided to propose amendments to the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies, and i voted in favour of this decision, which will enter into force at the first part-session of the eighth parliamentary term.
in writing. - i approve of this report considering that the commission's stated intention to address the need for specific nano labelling requirements for food additives in the european union lists in the context of the re-evaluation programme is inappropriate, as it confuses safety issues with general labelling requirements intended to inform consumers and that in my view this also suggests that the commission is calling into question the very need for nano specific labelling, which is in breach of the provisions of article 18 (3) of the fic regulation; that whether or not a food additive is a nanomaterial, that these labelling requirements should be applied to all authorised food additives that are nanomaterials, regardless of the conditions of use or other specifications. i also consider it unacceptable to refer to an independent reassessment programme which already existed at the time when the legislator decided to introduce explicit labelling requirements into the fic regulation in an attempt to repeal those labelling requirements three years later.
in writing. - i would like to stress once again that it is essential to ensure that consumers are given the information they need so that they know exactly what food they are consuming and can make an informed and conscious choice. in this particular case, i support the proposal of the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. - regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers empowers the commission to adjust and adapt the definition of artificial nanomaterial. the amendments to the regulation adopted by the ep last december exempt all additives already included in the previous list of additives from the obligation to identify them as nano (artificial nanomaterials), while maintaining the obligation to identify only new additives introduced on the market and additives from the old list foreseen for re-evaluation. it is precisely food additives that can be present as nanomaterials in food today. the consequences of the large-scale introduction of nanomaterials, the environmental consequences of bioaccumulation, transport and processing and the destination of these materials still need to be studied, and there are even several opinions reporting potential concerns regarding the safety of nanomaterials in food. to make good food choices, consumers need to be informed about the characteristics, production methods and new products that are emerging so that they can make informed decisions about their diet and health. we therefore agree with the objections to the regulation.
in writing. - this european parliament resolution on the commission delegated regulation on the provision of food information to consumers, as regards the definition of artificial nanomaterial, aims to inform the commission that the commission's stated intention to address the need for specific nano-labelling requirements for food additives in the european union lists, while generally desirable, in the context of the re-evaluation programme, is inappropriate. in fact, parliament considers that such a decision exceeds the powers delegated to the commission. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - article 18 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on consumer information on food (cif) provides that all ingredients contained in the form of artificial nanomaterials are to be clearly indicated in the list of ingredients in order to ensure consumer information. in view of the fact that all this information should be made widely available to consumers, but that the commission's stated intention to address the need for specific nano-labelling requirements for food additives in the european union lists in the context of the re-evaluation programme is inappropriate, as it confuses safety issues with general labelling requirements intended to inform consumers, i voted in favour of this proposal requesting the commission to submit a new delegated act.
in writing. - regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers empowers the commission to adjust and adapt the definition of artificial nanomaterial. the amendments to the regulation adopted by the ep last december exempt all additives already included in the previous list of additives from the obligation to identify them as nano (artificial nanomaterials), while maintaining the obligation to identify only new additives introduced on the market and additives already used and intended for re-evaluation. it is precisely food additives that may be present as nanomaterials in food. the consequences of the large-scale introduction of nanomaterials, the environmental consequences of bioaccumulation, transport and processing and the destination of these materials, require further knowledge and study. several opinions reporting potential concerns for the safety of nanomaterials in food. consumers have the right to informed choice, and when it comes to food and health, this information has even more relevant weight. it is therefore necessary that information on the characteristics, production methods and new products which are appearing be correct and complete. we therefore agree with the objections to the regulation.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that an effective data protection framework in europe can make an important contribution to achieving a good level of data protection for every european citizen. the content of the commission proposal has been amended to raise the standards of protection to a similar level to that of the proposed regulation and to provide, at the same time, clear justifications for the proposed solutions. i am convinced that rapid technological developments have created new challenges in the field of personal data protection. the level of data sharing and collection has increased considerably. new technologies enable both public authorities, especially law enforcement authorities, and private entities to use personal data on an unprecedented scale. people are increasingly making their personal information available publicly and globally. new technologies have transformed the economy and social life.
in writing. - rapid technological developments have created new challenges in the protection of personal data. the level of data sharing and collection has increased considerably. new technologies enable both public authorities and private entities to use personal data on an unprecedented scale. people are increasingly making their personal information publicly and globally available on the internet. in a globalised and interconnected world, in which the internet plays a central role, personal data is made available, stored, used and evaluated on a daily basis on an unprecedented scale. in the coming years europe will have to decide how to use all this information, especially in the field of law enforcement, crime prevention and combating, without compromising the rights and freedoms of citizens. it is a unique opportunity to develop two high-level and fairly balanced legal instruments. i therefore welcome the commission's efforts to create a unified framework for data protection and to harmonise the different systems across the eu member states.
in writing. - in a globalised and interconnected world built around online communications, personal data is made available, stored, used and evaluated on a daily basis and on an unprecedented scale. in the years and decades to come, europe will have to decide how to use all this information, especially in the field of law enforcement, the fight against crime and its prevention, without compromising the fundamental rights and standards which we have worked so hard to develop. it is a unique opportunity to develop two high-level and fairly balanced legal instruments. i think it is very important to create a unified framework for data protection and to harmonize the different systems between the eu member states.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the content of the commission proposal was amended by parliament in order to raise the standards of protection to a similar level to that of the proposed regulation and at the same time to provide clear justifications for the proposed solutions. in fact, rapid technological developments have created new challenges in the protection of personal data, which we wish to see reflected here. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive aims to replace and extend the scope of a 2008 decision on cross-border data processing in the field of police and judicial cooperation. as this is designed to protect national and cross-border data transfers, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve of this recasting considering, firstly, that some changes have been made to add some important definitions, namely those of local performance objective or sectoral partnership which, according to the proposal, are now a driving force in the newly structured functional airspace blocks. secondly, i believe that the single european sky should by definition be more inclusive and allow for more flexible use of airspace and its members should be encouraged to be part of enhanced cooperation, irrespective of the borders within which they operate. they should also be able to extend the geographical and operational scope to which this regulation applies through appropriate agreements with neighbouring third countries, including at the level of functional airspace blocks. some amendments are made to the text to make this explicitly possible.
in writing. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000 and air traffic management and navigation services were included in the common transport policy. since its inception, the enlargement policy, coupled with an active neighbourhood policy, has extended the european aviation market to 38 countries, making eu aviation a global player. the recast of the regulation on the implementation of the single european sky aims to accelerate the implementation of the reform of air navigation services while remaining faithful to the original objectives and principles. to achieve this objective, it intends, inter alia, to strengthen the independence of national supervisory authorities, strengthen the role of the network operator, redefine the concept of functional airspace blocks, allowing industry to play a more prominent role, and finally to make support for air navigation services subject to open competition.
in writing. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000 and air traffic management and navigation services were included in the common transport policy. the recast of the regulation on the implementation of the single european sky aims to accelerate the implementation of the reform of air navigation services while remaining faithful to the original objectives and principles. to achieve this objective, it intends, inter alia, to strengthen the independence of national supervisory authorities, strengthen the role of the network operator, redefine the concept of functional airspace blocks, allowing industry to play a more prominent role, and finally to make support for air navigation services subject to open competition. only then will we achieve a better internal aviation market and benefit consumers. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000 and has now included air traffic management and navigation services in the common transport policy. since the creation of the european economic area, the enlargement policy, combined with an active neighbourhood policy, has extended the european aviation market to 38 countries, thus making eu aviation a global player. however, the ses did not produce the expected results. little progress is being made in the bottom-up approach to fabs (interstate airspace management initiatives) and in the overall efficiency of the design and use of the european route network; therefore, the navigation charges, ticket prices, average flight duration or fuel consumption have not decreased sufficiently due to the ongoing ses reform. consequently, airspace users and passengers pay an unnecessary cost in terms of time, fuel consumed and money for the inefficiencies in the aviation chain. the amended proposal properly addresses the expectations of citizens as it is a balanced approach between the views of industry and social needs. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the second single european sky+ package contains a set of measures to accelerate the completion of a single airspace. it therefore calls on the member states to take a series of measures to make the european space an efficient and functional bloc. i would like to make it clear that the inclusion of the north atlantic region in the single sky legislation would be a clear violation of the international law of the sea, since this region was ceded to us by icao. so while i agree with the general aims of this proposal, i could not accept this inclusion. on the other hand, i also believe that the separation of air services from support services should not be done without an impact assessment, where each member state can assess the effects of this opening. despite these points, i voted in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. - i approve this report because i think it is a very important regulation for two reasons: firstly, to adapt to the new rules of the single european sky and, secondly, to reform governance, which aims at implementing the interinstitutional agreement on the framework for european agencies, signed in july 2012. under this agreement, the european commission, the european parliament and the european council agreed on a common approach to european agencies. the agreement, although not legally binding, is based on a case-by-case approach and contains improvements in many aspects (establishment of agencies, choice of seat, governance, use of resources and control mechanisms). furthermore, it should be noted that the main objective of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish the structure (governance) of the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. - this amendment to regulation (ec) no 216/2008 as regards aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services is part of a package with the single european sky and addresses the issue of aviation safety and the responsibilities of the european aviation safety agency (easa). this regulation is very important for two reasons: firstly, to adapt it to the new rules of the single european sky and, secondly, to reform its governance, which aims at implementing the interinstitutional agreement on the framework for european agencies, signed in july 2012.
in writing. - the main objective of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish the structure (governance) of the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. - the regulation (amending regulation (ec) no 216/2008 as regards airports, air traffic management and air navigation services) is part of a package with the single european sky and addresses the issue of aviation safety and the responsibilities of the european aviation safety agency (easa). this regulation is very important for two reasons: firstly, to adapt it to the new rules of the single european sky and, secondly, to reform its governance, which aims at implementing the interinstitutional agreement on the framework for european agencies, signed in july 2012. i voted in favour of this document because i agree with the assumptions and objectives of the amendments.
in writing. - this legislation, part of the single european sky package, aims to give the european aviation safety agency a more prominent role in the accreditation process, with a view to creating a one-stop shop that will simplify and streamline the whole process. i would, however, like to make it clear that i am against any duplication of functions contained in this report and that the functions of the european agency as such should not extend beyond the scope of the ess2+. if this is necessary, a proposal to this effect should be made by the european commission and sent to parliament. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, welcoming the revision of directive 90/314/eec on package holidays, package tours and package tours, in particular in view of the need to ensure that its provisions apply to the online travel business. it should be borne in mind, however, that the holiday travel market is constantly developing, in particular online, and that new business concepts are being developed all the time. one thing that must be avoided at all costs is the development of business models with the sole purpose of circumventing the directive. on the other hand, it is important that existing business models that are working well and that are beneficial to consumers continue to operate. it is therefore desirable that this should not be done too regularly because this would have a disproportionate impact on businesses and could result in models that would no longer be available to everyone.
in writing. - the travel market is constantly changing but it is essential to maintain existing business models that work well and are useful to consumers. it is important to draw up a clear differentiation between package travel and related travel services and to clarify the distribution of responsibility, in particular as regards pre-contractual information. in the event of a change in the travel contract due to price increases imposed by third parties, the traveller should be able to choose between three options: accepting the increased price, accepting the alternative travel arrangement or terminating the travel contract with the right to immediate reimbursement of the travel price, including related expenses. if the traveller does not respond to the written notification of the changes, the trip shall be deemed to have been accepted at the increased price. the report thus seeks to strike a balance between consumers and commercial interests by creating a comprehensible and well-structured regime that is in line with the developments of our time, ensuring a wide variety of business models and offering sufficient and lasting protection to all stakeholders. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - it is essential for the economic prosperity of the eu as a whole that not only consumers but also businesses are protected, so that the legislation applied favours both. this is where technology can play a key role, in this case by adapting legal mechanisms that enable companies to modernise their it services in order to streamline and make their processes more transparent, thus avoiding mockery and misunderstandings between seller and buyer.
- tourism plays an important role in the union's economies and package travel, package holidays and package tours represent a significant part of this market. in addition to traditional distribution chains, the internet has become an increasingly important way of marketing travel services. it is necessary to regulate these new distribution channels so that the consumer is not misled and so that his rights can be guaranteed.
in writing. - directive 90/314/eec aims to ensure that consumers receive the essential information before and after they sign a package travel contract. it also provides that operators and/or travel agencies are responsible for the proper execution of the package, even when the services are provided by subcontractors, and regulates what should happen in the event of a change in the package contract. it also ensures that travellers are reimbursed for payments made and repatriated in the event of the insolvency of the organiser and/or the agency. in 1990, however, the structure of the transport market was much simpler than it is today, and the internet did not even exist. despite the contribution of that judgment of the court of justice of the european union, it is still unclear to what extent the new ways of combining travel services are covered by the directive. the modernisation of directive 90/314/eec thus responds to the requests made by the co-legislators, the european economic and social committee and the european consumers' consultative group. a large number of industry professionals and consumer organisations also supported this revision. in view of the favourable opinion of the committee responsible, i voted in favour of this proposal for an amendment to the directive which reflects the views of the commission and parliament.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive on package travel and package tours aims to adapt to new communication technologies, in particular the internet. we must not forget that a large part of the population uses the internet to buy their travels and for that very reason, their consumer rights must be safeguarded. at the same time, this amendment takes account of a safeguard mechanism in the event of insolvency, to avoid cases such as halcon or the bankruptcy of airlines. in addition, the criteria for price increases after the contract is signed are high. legislation adapted to the new realities and protecting european consumers.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that the european union has called for a reduction of 80%-95% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. according to the european commission's roadmap to a low carbon economy, achieving this target requires 72%-73% reductions in non-co2 emissions (which includes fluorinated greenhouse gases) by 2030. but while all other greenhouse gases have been reduced, emissions of f-gases in the eu have increased by 60% since 1990. hfc-based products and equipment can have a lifespan of up to 50 years. additional legislation is therefore now needed to prevent emissions from rising for several decades to come. fortunately, there are now sustainable alternatives on the market and in use that have proven to be safe and cost-effective and energy efficient. these sustainable alternatives can replace almost all hfc-based equipment now and in the near future. the phasing out of hfcs will enhance sustainable growth, encourage innovation and compensate european industries for investing in green technologies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected and that it is sustainable. it is our duty to leave an environment equal to or better than the one we live in. so all these measures are indispensable, not only for the preservation of the environment but also for our health. the european union is known as the regional organisation that protects the environment the most, and this is another step towards ensuring that this recognition continues to be a feature of the european union.
in writing. - commonly used in a number of industrial sectors as refrigerants, solvents, insulation gases, foaming agents and aerosol propellants, fluorinated gases are hundreds of times more dangerous than co2 for global warming. with demand for refrigeration and air conditioning increasing, especially in developing countries, these gases will account for about 8% of greenhouse gases by 2050. it is therefore important to limit their use, particularly of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs). the majority of industrialised countries agreed to the premise when they signed the montreal protocol, but there was no agreement at the last meeting of the parties in october 2013 to put these efforts into practice. the existing eu regulation on these gases aims to prevent the use of fluorinated gases where alternatives exist and to prevent their escape where they are still needed. but it is ineffective and therefore needs to be revised. although it should and could be more ambitious, this text is already an improvement on the previous regulation, in particular when it provides for the prohibition of the use of fluorinated gases, with a higher climate impact, in fixed refrigeration systems from 2022 and fixed air conditioning systems from 2025.
- the reduction of this type of gas is very important if the objectives set for 2050 are to be achieved, as it has a warming potential 23 000 times greater than that of carbon dioxide. if the existing regulations are applied, we will be able to achieve the objectives set.
in writing. - the montreal protocol, considered the most successful of the international environmental agreements, has achieved the global elimination and phasing-out of the substances that deplete the ozone layer the most, including chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs) and hydrochlorinated fluorocarbons (hcfcs). hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) have recently been functioning as substitutes for cfcs and hcfcs, but they are very climatically active. in addition, fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases), including perfluorocarbons (pfcs) and sulphur hexafluoride (sf6), have global warming potentials (gwp) up to 23 000 times greater than carbon dioxide and can remain in the atmosphere for thousands of years. in view of the need for action in this area, i voted in favour of this proposal which sets the targets to be achieved by 2030, namely 72%-73% reductions in non-co2 emissions (which includes fluorinated greenhouse gases).
in writing. - the commission has adopted a roadmap for the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 and has set out the necessary sectoral contributions in six strategic areas. i am in favour of this regulation which aims to protect the environment by reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. to that end, this regulation lays down rules on the containment, use, recovery and destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases and related ancillary measures, and imposes conditions on specific uses of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
in writing. - fluorinated gases are hundreds of times more dangerous than co2 in terms of global warming. they are commonly used in a number of industrial sectors as refrigerants, solvents, insulating gases, foaming agents and aerosol propellants. with the increasing demand in developing countries for refrigerators and air conditioners, these gases will account for about 8% of greenhouse gases by 2050. limiting their use is therefore important, particularly of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs). the montreal protocol was signed by most industrialized countries, but no agreement was reached at the last meeting of the parties in october 2013 to implement these efforts. the existing eu regulation on these gases aims, where alternatives exist, to avoid the use of fluorinated gases and prevent their escape where they are still needed. but it is ineffective and needs to be revised. the text is already an improvement on the previous regulation, in particular when it provides for the prohibition of the use of fluorinated gases, with a higher climate impact, in fixed refrigeration systems from 2022 and fixed air conditioning systems from 2025.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by pointing out that in the employment package of 18 april 2012 (commission communication entitled 'a job-creating recovery'), the commission announced its intention to present a legislative proposal to support mobile workers (information and advice) in exercising their rights under the treaty and regulation no 492/2011 on the free movement of workers within the union and called on the member states to raise awareness of the rights conferred by eu legislation on anti-discrimination, gender equality and free movement of workers, and to grant and facilitate access for eu citizens to public sector posts in accordance with eu law as interpreted by the court of justice. the commission also called on member states to ensure the full implementation of directive 2006/54/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation.
in writing. - the free movement of workers is a fundamental freedom of european citizens and one of the pillars of the union's internal market. but that mobility is still limited. in 2012, only 3% of european citizens of working age lived in another member state, demonstrating that obstacles to professional mobility are still numerous. the objective of this directive is not to grant more rights but to ensure better implementation of regulation 492/2011 which included the right to equal treatment as regards access to employment, working conditions, social and tax advantages, access to training, trade union membership, housing and access to education for children. improving the free movement of workers must be a priority. the mobility of workers is an important contribution to economic growth and job creation in europe. member states should provide clear and easily accessible information to citizens wishing to exercise this right and should ensure that existing bodies cooperate with information and assistance services, including the your europe portal, solvit, eures, entrepreneurs europe and the single window. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the free movement of workers is one of the four fundamental freedoms inherent in the concept of european citizenship on which the single market is based. every eu citizen has the right to work in a member state other than his own and to be free from discrimination in terms of pay or working conditions. this is a right under the treaties and should be directly applicable by the member states. unfortunately, there are still too many legal and administrative obstacles to the free movement and equal treatment of migrant workers in the union, and it is therefore essential to bridge the gap between the rights of eu migrant workers and their exercise in practice by facilitating the correct application of the legislation in force and providing them with the means to enforce their rights. i therefore support this directive which allows for the creation of a common general framework of appropriate provisions and measures to facilitate a more effective and uniform application of the rights conferred on such workers, in particular by strengthening their protection, creating national support structures, raising awareness and promoting a dialogue with the relevant social partners and organisations.
in the present economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all the rules allowing greater mobility of professionals is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery. moreover, the free movement of workers within the eu is one of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in our founding treaties. without it, the european union will no longer be what we want it to be - a single market in which there is effective free movement.
in writing. - although the free movement of workers is enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the eu as a fundamental freedom of eu citizens, there are still many problems of discrimination on grounds of nationality and these workers face administrative problems, in terms of access to and working conditions, the right to education, training, social security and access to health. this directive aims to provide a more effective tool to protect mobile workers and their families from such discrimination by advocating respect for the different labour models existing in the member states. we believe that there are positive aspects to this directive. however, we cannot dissociate it from a broader context in which the idea of mobility is embedded: an eu of great asymmetries in which the most competitive economies suck the youngest and most skilled labour from the countries facing the most economic difficulties. the high levels of emigration - now called mobility - thus contribute to the increase in asymmetries between exporting and importing countries.
the free movement of workers is one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the single market is based. it is one of the core values of the european union and a fundamental element of eu citizenship. however, eu citizens who intend to move or who actually move from one member state to another for work reasons continue to face problems in exercising their rights. we must take steps to ensure that these problems are no longer present and that there is genuine freedom of movement for workers. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bauer report on the proposal for a directive adopting measures to facilitate the free movement of workers within the eu because this is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the single market, which will only be fully realised with an effective freedom of movement for workers. the eu is facing high unemployment rates and the removal of remaining legal and practical barriers and the boosting of a genuine eu-wide labour market must now be a priority for the european institutions. without wishing to relieve national governments of their responsibility for implementing active policies for job creation, it is pointless to continue to consider as migrants workers who move to work in another member state. the eu must take decisive steps to create, alongside the internal market for goods, services and capital, a genuine internal labour market which ensures uniform conditions for decent work, avoiding social dumping, and which will boost the union's labour market.
in writing. - with a view to removing some obstacles to free movement, the following specific objectives have been identified: reducing discrimination against eu migrant workers on grounds of nationality; bridging the gap between the rights of eu migrant workers and the practical exercise of those rights by facilitating the correct application of existing legislation; reducing the incidence of unfair practices against eu migrant workers; and providing eu migrant workers with the means to enforce their rights. in this context, i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the context of freedom of movement for workers.
in writing. - as enshrined in article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the free movement of workers implies the abolition of any discrimination based on nationality between workers of the member states as regards employment, remuneration and other conditions of work. the proposal to amend the directive thus aims to remove obstacles to the mobility of workers or residents of the union. i would just like to stress one element which i consider extremely positive, namely the inclusion of an article on victimization, to protect workers from discriminatory treatment through effective legal protection. the proposal also reinforces the need for more information to be made available to citizens when they move to another member state; the extension of the scope to cross-border, permanent and seasonal workers; and the inclusion of the directive on family reunification. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the free movement of workers is enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the eu as a fundamental freedom of eu citizens. however, despite being a right of citizens, there are still many problems of discrimination on grounds of nationality and these workers face various administrative problems, in terms of access and working conditions, right to education and training, social security, access to health. this directive aims to provide a more efficient tool to protect mobile workers and their families from such discrimination by advocating respect for the different labour models existing in the member states. there are some very positive aspects to this directive. however, we cannot dissociate ourselves from a broader context in which the idea of mobility is embedded, a context of an eu of great asymmetries in which the most competitive economies suck in the increasingly young and skilled labour from the countries facing the most economic difficulties. the high levels of emigration - now called mobility - thus contribute to the increase in asymmetries between exporting and importing countries. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve of this report, noting that, over its 28 years of application, this directive has had some success in harmonising the principles of environmental assessment at european level, but has been subject to only three minor amendments, while the political, legal and technical context has evolved considerably. in addition, some shortcomings have been identified which have given rise to a significant number of legal disputes, both at national level and before the court of justice. in recent years, the court of justice has clarified the interpretation of some provisions, in particular specifying that demolitions should be included in the project definition (commission case 50/2009) in order to avoid the problems identified and to harmonise the text of the directive with the new political priorities of the union, such as the soil protection strategy, the roadmap for a resource efficient europe and the europe 2020 strategy. in line with the union's priorities, the proposal introduces biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the risks of natural and man-made disasters among the factors on the basis of which the impact of a project should be assessed.
in writing. - green growth without compromising competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent environmental policy, which requires a uniform assessment of both public and private projects in the environment. i therefore vote in favour of the commission's proposal to amend and adapt the eia directive to new realities.
in writing. - the european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment covers some 200 types of projects, from the construction of bridges, ports, motorways and landfills to intensive poultry or pig farming. it establishes the principle of informed decision: before approving the implementation of a public project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are legally obliged to obtain the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment. i believe it is important to strengthen the role of the interested public at all stages of the process and to create moments of dialogue between the parties concerned. at the same time, it is essential to ensure that the environmental report is verified by fully independent experts with appropriate technical expertise in environmental matters. achieving a true green economy also means ensuring the sustainability of projects to be carried out in our territory, taking into account resource efficiency, climate change and biodiversity loss, in particular in the case of major infrastructure projects.
in writing. - this report refers to the proposed environmental impact assessment (eia) directive, which is essential to safeguard the public interest and the conservation of nature in the decision-making on public and private projects, taking into account their effect on the environment. the previous vote in plenary had already weakened the proposal, which was weakened by the outcome of the negotiations with the council. aspects of crucial importance for ensuring the independence, quality and transparency of these procedures, such as the inclusion of mandatory impact assessment in shale gas exploration or the need for more attention to the post-evaluation phase of projects, or even the right of the public to request an eia process in projects of interest, through mechanisms of active participation involving the populations, local authorities and associations, including ngos, which addressed the shortcomings in public consultation and the lack of involvement of the populations, which has been the reason for many complaints in recent years, were left out of the proposal for a directive. although other aspects which we are fighting for, such as the inclusion/consideration of cumulative effects with other future or existing projects, were included in the directive as a weighting criterion, we believe that the negotiations have resulted in a proposal which falls far short of the intended improvements. we voted against it.
in writing. - directive 2011/92/eu1 contains a legal provision requiring an environmental impact assessment (eia) for public or private projects likely to have significant effects on the environment, before their authorisation. the main objective of the directive has been achieved by consensus: the principles of environmental assessment have been harmonised across the eu by introducing minimum requirements regarding the type of projects to be assessed, the main obligations of the developer, the content of the assessment and the involvement of the competent authorities and the public. we must continue to improve this process, which is essential for sustainable growth. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - despite its modest appearance, directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia directive) is, on the contrary, the jewel in the crown of the union's environment policy. its scope covers some 200 types of projects, from the construction of bridges, ports, motorways and landfills to intensive poultry or pig farming. however, it is possible to improve that directive. the commission proposal considers that a model of truly sustainable development should be adopted throughout the union. the amendments proposed by parliament are intended to reinforce the ec proposal by completing it, with the aim of making it even more incisive and effective, simplifying transposition into national legislation and facilitating the achievement of environmental protection objectives. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the commission communication of 30 april 2007 entitled 'the mid-term evaluation of the sixth community environment action programme' highlighted the need to improve the principles for assessing the environmental impact of projects and to adapt the european directive to the considerably evolved political, legal and technical context. i am voting in favour of this report which calls for an environmental impact assessment to be carried out whenever it is necessary to safeguard the environment. i also stress the urgent need to coordinate and facilitate the assessment processes for crossborder projects and, in particular, with a view to consultations under the convention on environmental impact assessment in a crossborder context, including the possibility for the member states concerned to set up a joint body on the basis of equal representation.
in writing. - this report refers to the proposal for a directive on environmental impact assessment (eia), which is essential to safeguard the public interest and the conservation of nature in the decision-making on public and private projects, taking into account their effect on the environment. aspects which are of decisive importance in ensuring the independence, quality and transparency of these procedures were not taken into account, and the proposal, already weakened by the previous vote in plenary, was weaker after the negotiations with the council. the inclusion of mandatory impact assessment in shale gas exploration or the need for more attention to the post-evaluation phase of projects, or even the right of the public to request an eia process in projects of interest, through active participation mechanisms involving the populations, local authorities and associations, including ngos, which addressed the shortcomings in public consultation and the lack of involvement of the populations, which many complaints have motivated in recent years, were removed from the proposal for a directive. although other aspects were covered in the directive for which we were fighting, such as the inclusion/consideration of cumulative effects with other future or existing projects, as a criterion for weighting environmental impact, we felt that there was much to be improved and that it was left behind. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that the criterion for choosing between the two categories of acts does not concern the distinction between substantive and non-substantive issues, but the distinction between acts which lay down rules (i.e. acts which relate to abstract situations) and acts which apply only to a concrete situation or to a series of concretely identified situations. therefore, irrespective of their substantive nature, rules and standards should always be adopted by means of delegated acts in order to respect parliament's regulatory competence. if parliament accepts general/abstract implementing acts, it will allow the rules to be established by the commission under the control of the member states, without any role for parliament.
- data on extra-community trade are an important indicator of eu trade flows on a global scale. however, the original proposal from the european commission is more realistic and, in my view, more appropriate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries as regards the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures under the treaty of lisbon. my position fully follows that expressed by the rapporteur, that parliament should be more demanding in establishing the distinction between delegated and implementing acts, as stated in the text itself. i also voted in favour of limiting the delegation of powers to the commission to five years, so as to allow for greater parliamentary control.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the statistics of external trade with third countries. to date, most of the legislation in the field of the common commercial policy has been brought into line with the new constitutional regime through the trade omnibus i and ii regulations and several subsequent individual alignments. the commission has committed itself to presenting the second phase of comitology alignments for legislative acts containing the regulatory procedure with scrutiny before the end of the seventh legislature. in this context, the commission proposes to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that refers to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in view of the favourable opinion of the committee on international trade, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the main issue in this report concerns the comitology procedure for community statistics on external trade with third countries. i voted in favour of this document, which seeks to lay down the delegation of powers and implementing powers to the commission in this area for the adoption of certain measures.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that at a time when the control and appropriate use of information have important geostrategic implications, europe needs to be able to assess its strategic responses independently, in a reliable and timely manner. the copernicus programme (the new name for gmes) is that infrastructure: the european comprehensive earth observation system. the commission proposal marks the entry into the operational phase of the satellite system. the main objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of areas, including environmental and climate change purposes, while maintaining its application in the civil dimension. however, some of the most controversial elements, such as data policy and governance, will need to be improved to ensure smooth progress. after all, the space sector represents a significant number of jobs, a relevant research activity and copernicus alone announces a return of eur 3.2 for every euro spent. is this not the time to seek the expansion of the european economy? is this not the time for major economic projects capable of leading europe out of the quagmire?
in writing. in a world facing an increasing risk of natural and other disasters, the copernicus programme is very important because it aims to monitor the environmental condition on earth, in the seas and in the atmosphere, as well as to improve the safety of citizens. at the same time, copernicus is an engine of economic growth and job creation, with the potential to create a significant number of new jobs. the main objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of areas, including environmental and climate change purposes, while maintaining its application in the civil dimension. copernicus-related research activities will be better funded by the space funds of the horizon 2020 programme. however, it is important that the european commission promotes a broad-based engagement between the european public sector and private stakeholders, allows for the growth of intermediate and downstream sectors and facilitates the creation of new markets. in this context, the creation of a dedicated copernicus data distribution network, composed of national and regional bodies, to support the use of earth observation technologies by local authorities and smes is advocated. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - it is essential that the whole european union has mechanisms that not only enable and improve the safety of citizens, but are at the forefront of remote monitoring and control technology. in addition, this type of mechanism benefits the climate studies of our continent and enables a more comprehensive investigation of our environment. from an economic point of view, it is also of some importance, since the whole business community connected with remote observation issues will have another means of growth at its disposal. all this makes it possible to increase employment combined with the substantial investment needed in research and development.
in writing. - at a time when the control and appropriate use of information has important geostrategic implications, europe needs to be able to assess its strategic responses independently, reliably and in a timely manner. the copernicus programme (the new name for gmes) is that infrastructure: the european comprehensive earth observation system. the main objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of areas, including environmental and climate change purposes, while maintaining its application in the civil dimension. this programme is of enormous importance, and i am reluctant to see the budget cut by 35%. let's hope that doesn't affect your action.
in writing. - at a time when the control and appropriate use of information has important geostrategic implications, europe needs to be able to assess its strategic responses independently, reliably and in a timely manner. the copernicus programme is that infrastructure - a comprehensive european earth observation system. the commission proposal marks the entry into the operational phase of the satellite system. the main objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of areas, including environmental and climate change purposes, while maintaining its application in the civil dimension. the proposed amendments aim to align the structure of the document with the previous regulations and to build on the experience gained in the galileo approval process. i agree with the methodology and, in view of the favourable opinions, i have voted in favour of this report.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology. copernicus will provide services for land monitoring, marine monitoring, atmospheric monitoring, emergency and security services. the programme will be managed centrally by the european commission, with the support of the european space agency and the european environment agency. the importance of this programme could make a difference in the technological evolution of europe today compared to its partners in the future. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by expressing my concern about the commission's general approach in the communication and asking the commission to explain how the agencies should carry out their tasks in the future. another aspect of concern is that from 2014 the commission will no longer directly support european type ii schools and it will be the responsibility of the agencies concerned (in particular gsa) to provide the necessary funding. the commission claims that the appropriations allocated so far will be transferred to the budgets of the agencies concerned. however, given the overall reduction in appropriations resulting from a more limited multiannual financial framework, the agencies will have enormous difficulties in financing the type ii european schools. consequently, it will be even more difficult for agencies such as gsa to attract qualified temporary staff from all member states. finally, i would like to draw attention to the problem posed to the gsa by the correction coefficient applied to the salaries of the agency's staff.
in the light of the above, the commission has proposed a regulation amending the regulation establishing the european gnss agency (gsa). while focusing mainly on governance issues related to security accreditation, the proposal also aligns the gsa regulation with the common approach on decentralised agencies. in addition, the proposed amendments to the legislative financial statement should reflect the new gsa functions resulting from the future gnss regulation.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the agency's role in the development of the european gnss system is to provide the necessary technical support to the agency in the field of safety and security. the agency and the proper use of its resources are essential for a number of sectors of activity. it is therefore important to preserve its independence and to provide it with the means to continue to achieve its objectives.
in writing. - the commission has proposed a regulation amending the regulation establishing the european global navigation satellite system (gsa) agency. while focusing mainly on governance issues related to security accreditation, the proposal also aligns the gsa regulation with the common approach on decentralised agencies agreed in july 2012 by the parliament, the council and the commission. in addition, the proposed amendments to the legislative financial statement should reflect the new functions of the gsa, resulting from the future gnss regulation, which is an aspect of the utmost importance from a budgetary perspective (regulation on the deployment and operation of european satellite radio navigation systems). the commission proposal for the future gnss regulation provides for a global amount of eur 7 897 million in current prices for the period of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in the light of the favourable opinion of the committee responsible and in agreement with its content, i have voted in favour of this proposal.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. it is through this that the commission supports european businesses wishing to use the services offered by both programmes. the amendment will strengthen the agency's financial and human resources. in addition, a gender balance has been applied across the agency, with greater involvement of the european parliament.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the document containing proposals for the future comes at a specific moment: during the economic crisis in europe, after the eastern partnership summit held in vilnius at the end of the 2009-2014 period, when the european union's role is of greatest importance. the european parliament must therefore present an ambitious proposal that demonstrates our openness and commitment to the development of the european project. in this sense, the crisis should not be a conditioning factor but rather an incentive to achieve more than mere political commitment and to focus on the citizens of the eastern partnership countries, with emphasis on policies with tangible results, such as the visa-free regime. the european union should also focus on youth and young leaders, ensuring that their future is fixed in the european union. the union should also focus on energy security and cooperate with the eastern partners in this area. this document should provide an incentive for a bold political approach to the development of the eastern partnership and open the way for our ideas.
in writing. - i consider this partnership agreement very important. this document should therefore provide an incentive for a bold political approach to the development of the eastern partnership. the main priorities should be the visa-free regime and the focus on youth as an investment in the future.
in writing. - this report includes proposals for the future and comes at a specific time: during the economic crisis in europe, after the eastern partnership summit held in vilnius and at the end of the eu's 2009-2014 period. in this context, parliament must present an ambitious proposal which demonstrates our openness and commitment to the development of the european project. in this sense, the crisis should not be a constraint but rather an incentive for new challenges, especially for policies with tangible results, such as the visa-free regime. the eu should also focus on youth and young leaders, ensuring that their future is fixed in the european union. the eu should also focus on energy security and collaborate with its eastern partners in this area. all these ideas, which i agree with, are contained in this document, which is presented as an incentive for a courageous political approach to the development of the eastern partnership.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the commission has decided to launch a new programme of cooperation with the countries of the region. it comes at a time when the eu is becoming more important in its relations with the eastern partnership countries. this is an ambitious document which takes into account important issues underlying relations with these countries, such as the visa-free regime and energy policy. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering the growing attention to security, combined with technological developments, which has allowed states to know more about citizens than ever before. the ability to collect data on the content of communications as well as metadata and to track citizens' electronic activities - in particular their use of smartphones and tablet computers - enables intelligence services to effectively know almost everything about a person. all of this has contributed to a fundamental shift in the work and practices of intelligence agencies away from the traditional concept of targeted surveillance as a necessary and proportionate counter-terrorism measure towards large-scale surveillance systems. this process of increasing large-scale surveillance had not yet been subject to any public debate or democratic decision-making process. the purpose and scope of surveillance and its place in a democratic society need to be discussed. are we facing a breach of privacy and intimacy of such a nature that it is possible, not only for criminals but also for computer companies and for information agencies, to know everything about the life of a citizen?
in writing. - every sovereign state has its own intelligence service. regardless of the nsa's surveillance programme, we will always have to bear in mind that the us is the eu's greatest ally, not only because of the existing security and defence partnerships, but also because almost all eu member states are also members of nato. the berlin plus arrangements, on the other hand, put at the disposal of the eu all the means that nato has to act. in my view, what is absolutely important is to know what the aims of the programme are.
in writing. - i know . the positive aspect of this report is that it allows us to expose the scale and scope of the spying programmes of the intelligence agencies of the major capitalist powers, particularly the nsa of the united states. the references to programmes allowing large-scale surveillance of eu citizens through direct access to the central servers of the major us internet companies, content and metadata analysis, circumvention of online encryption and access to computer and telephone networks and location data, as well as to the systems of the uk intelligence agency (gchq), such as its upstream surveillance activity, decryption programme, intrusion attacks targeting information systems and the collection and storage of 200 million text messages per day, are to be highlighted. the paradox of this report is that, in the face of the violation of fundamental human rights and democratic rights and freedoms, the majority of meps consider that there are doubts whether these actions are motivated solely by the fight against terrorism. moreover, it considers that this stance indicates the possible existence of other motivations, including political and economic espionage. these doubts suggest that everything will remain the same.
in writing. - i agree that access to citizens' data on any communication platform should not be free and indiscriminate. however, we cannot ignore the fight against terrorism either, and the current system of information sharing has already been responsible for saving countless lives. we must be sensitive to these two views of the same problem and find a balance so that we protect the fundamental rights of citizens and, on the other hand, do not relax the fight against terrorism, otherwise it will again claim human lives.
in writing. - i know . from july 2013, the libe committee of inquiry was given the extremely difficult task of fulfilling the mandate of the plenary to investigate the large-scale electronic surveillance of eu citizens in a very short timeframe of less than 6 months. during this period, it held more than 15 hearings covering each of the core issues set out in the 4 july resolution, drawing on the proposals of eu and us experts representing a wide range of expertise and backgrounds: eu institutions, national parliaments, the us congress, academics, journalists, civil society, security and technology experts and private companies. the debate on large-scale surveillance is not uniform across the eu. the resolution, which i vote for, recognises the magnitude of the revelations involved and their ongoing nature, planning for future action and ensuring that specific proposals for follow-up action are on the table in the next legislature, ensuring that the findings will continue to be high on the eu's political agenda. parliament also put forward a concrete proposal for a european digital habeas corpus to protect fundamental rights in the digital age.
in writing. - this report is the sum of a set of working papers on the alleged surveillance activities of the us nsa against the european institutions and member states. since these are a clear violation of fundamental rights and create an environment of suspicion between the parties, i am in favour of eliminating large-scale surveillance altogether. at the same time, the national competent authorities must analyse the risks associated with this surveillance and, therefore, national legislation must create measures for parliamentary control of the intelligence and security agencies. i think it is essential that the line be clearly drawn between the fundamental rights of european citizens and their security. we must not allow fear to make us illegally control everything and everyone.
in writing. - the report has the positive side of allowing us to expose the scale and scope of the spying programmes of the intelligence agencies of the major capitalist powers, particularly the nsa of the united states. the references to programmes allowing large-scale surveillance of eu citizens through direct access to the central servers of the major us internet companies, content and metadata analysis, circumvention of online encryption and access to computer and telephone networks and location data, as well as to the systems of the uk intelligence agency (gchq), such as its upstream surveillance activity, decryption programme, intrusion attacks targeting information systems and the collection and storage of 200 million text messages per day, are to be highlighted. the contradiction in this report is that in the face of the violation of fundamental human rights and democratic rights and freedoms, the majority of meps consider that there are doubts whether these actions are motivated solely by the fight against terrorism. moreover, it considers that this stance indicates the possible existence of other motivations, including political and economic espionage. these doubts suggest that everything will remain the same.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that the justice panel is currently part of the european semester and that justice is a value in itself and should be accessible to all. i also believe that any assessment of criminal justice must take account of the prerogatives of the member states and national law in this area, and must remain within the limits of the union's coordination responsibility, avoiding any value judgments concerning criminal justice systems. i also believe that the independence of the judiciary and the judiciary must be respected and that the government, in the exercise of its legislative and executive functions, must therefore exercise the greatest care in assessing its performance in the civil, commercial, administrative and criminal justice sectors. finally, i would point out that article 84 tfeu precludes any harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the member states in the field of crime prevention and that the same article calls on the union to promote and support action by the member states in this field.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission is responsible for the implementation of the treaty. in the operation of justice, the broad definition of justice must always prevail: give to each what is rightfully his. the eu should thus be one of the world's most progressive organisations in the field of justice, with a level playing field for those who have recourse to it.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. its impact can be seen in the restructuring of national economies to lay the foundations for growth and competitiveness. in this reform process, national justice systems play a key role in restoring confidence and returning to growth. an efficient and independent judiciary contributes to confidence and stability. predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are key structural factors in an attractive business environment. they maintain the trust for the establishment of businesses, the execution of a contract, the settlement of private debts, the protection of property rights as well as other rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which welcomes the eu justice panel set up by the commission. the establishment of a criminal justice panel will make a key contribution to establishing a common understanding of eu criminal law among judges and prosecutors-general, thus enhancing mutual trust. parliament called on the commission to gradually broaden the scope of the panel to become a separate and comprehensive justice panel which assesses, through the use of objective indicators, all judicial areas, including criminal justice, and all horizontal issues related to justice, such as the independence, efficiency and integrity of the judicial system, the careers of judges and respect for procedural rights.
in writing. - the european system for the protection of fundamental rights deserves special attention. although there are views that this report could be counterproductive for our citizens, given that the union already has a significant system of protection of fundamental rights, i voted in favour of it because i considered it important to create a european system for verifying the compliance of judicial systems with the fundamental principles.
in writing. - i approve this report, since convergence means the integration of audiovisual communication services which have hitherto been largely regarded as separate from each other, either linearly or non-linearly. the traditional media have been joined by new servers from the telecommunications industry and over-the-top (ott) service providers. the regulatory system provided for in the audiovisual media services directive has so far ensured a certain minimum standard for classic (linear) television content and for non-linear and online telemedia services at european level. with the digitalisation of broadcasting and media technologies, the convergence of technical transmission pathways and the progressive development of mobile and hybrid terminal equipment, classic regulated broadcasting services and on-demand services from the open internet with previously unregulated content suddenly competed on the same screen. in my view, this situation raises issues relating to consumer, child and data protection, but also to ensuring the diversity and dual nature of the media as a cultural and economic asset.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to compete with the united states in the world market for the production of electricity. the internet has made it possible for a child in vladivostok to browse and search for information on a belgian citizen. data protection thus becomes essential and fundamental to the security of each of us. however, we can never call into question the space of freedom that is cyberspace and freedom within the european union itself.
in writing. - convergence is the integration of audiovisual communication services which have hitherto been largely regarded as separate from each other, either linearly or non-linearly. it is necessary to examine the specific legal frameworks applicable to existing audiovisual media and, where necessary, to adapt them to the current reality in converging markets. we must therefore work towards a legislative framework which will regulate the new, fully convergent audiovisual world.
in writing. - on 24 april 2013, the european commission presented a reflection paper aimed at generating a broad public debate on the impact of the current changes in the audiovisual landscape. the green paper preparing for a fully convergent audiovisual world: growth, creation and values gives particular attention to the issues of the future adequacy of the audiovisual media services directive, but also to the aspects of infrastructure, frequencies and financing models for audiovisual content, as well as to those related to the vertical and horizontal integration of the media and ict sector in market terms. this report on preparing for a fully convergent audiovisual world sets out the positions of parliament, which i voted in favour of, and from which i stress the need for a new understanding of the interaction between audiovisual media and electronic applications and services. this should reflect the interconnection between the creation, processing, distribution and presentation of content in the form of a horizontal regulatory framework at european level.
in writing. - competence in the audiovisual media lies with the member states. however, as there is a merger of traditional media with more modern ones such as the internet, it is necessary to look at structures increasingly at european level. the new media must therefore be covered by a new regulatory framework, which incorporates these new provisions and protects consumers. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, welcoming the commission's initiatives to raise citizens' awareness of their rights through the europe direct service and the your europe website. at the same time, i would point out that more needs to be done to inform citizens about their rights, in particular through social media platforms, and underline the important contribution that member states and national politicians can make in raising awareness. in my view, although the crossborder regions are the places where the advantages and disadvantages of european integration are most evident, the more isolated regions, in particular the outermost regions, are the regions where there is a greater need to reinforce the feeling of european citizenship, due to their isolation and geographical distance from the european continent.
in 2013, twenty years have passed since the adoption of the maastricht treaty, which established the concept of citizenship of the european union. twenty years on, it is time to take stock of what european citizenship means to the citizens of the 28 member states and how it affects their lives. it is also essential to bring european citizens closer to the eu and to give them the appropriate tools to be able to assert their rights and freedoms throughout the eu. in this connection, i welcome the commission's initiatives in this european year of citizens to bring citizens closer to the institutions and to strengthen their access to information essential for the exercise of their rights, freedoms and guarantees.
in writing. - eu citizenship means the right of every citizen of the union to move and reside freely within its territory, non-discrimination and the common values of the european union, in particular respect for fundamental rights, with particular attention to the rights of persons belonging to minorities. we must pay particular attention to citizenship and the rights of minorities deriving from it, by eradicating violations of fundamental rights in the field of citizenship by member states, in order to avoid double standards and/or discrimination. we must therefore work towards a better concept of citizenship and to put an end to the discrimination which still exists.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a european parliament resolution on the 2013 report on citizenship of the union: eu citizens: their rights, their future, in which parliament stresses that citizens should be able to make informed decisions on the exercise of the rights conferred on them by the treaties and therefore should have access to all the necessary information, not only at the level of abstract rights but also at the level of practical and easily accessible information on economic, social, administrative, legal and cultural issues, and in this regard calls on national, regional and local authorities to promote a better understanding of eu citizenship and to explain its practical benefits to citizens.
in writing. - in its 2013 citizenship of the union report, the european commission presents 12 new measures in six different areas with the aim of strengthening the implementation of the rights of eu citizens in practice. i voted in favour of the document, which puts the spotlight on eu citizens, their rights and their future.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in the process of cooperation between member states in the field of criminal justice. the european parliament is called upon to express its opinion on a legislative proposal which, at a time of budgetary consolidation, represents the concrete demand of the citizens that the financial interests of the european union be protected. in addition, the eur 500 million withdrawn from the social security system and public utilities deserve a response from the european union. this document is intended, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, to make a number of suggestions and to provide precise political guidance on the text proposed by the commission, which may be the subject of a careful assessment by the council. i hope that the european parliament will be closely involved in the discussion and definition of the proposal under consideration, and that the co-legislator will make a timely assessment of the observations and solutions identified.
- the criminal prosecution of actions against the eu budget has been the exclusive competence of the member states. however, many of these offences end up not being investigated and prosecuted because national efforts in this area are highly fragmented and the cross-border dimension of these offences usually escapes the attention of the authorities. crime is becoming increasingly cross-border in nature, with the financial interests of the union suffering significant damage, and more coherent and effective responses are needed. i support the creation of an independent european public prosecutor's office to fill the gaps that are being created every day in the judicial action against fraud. it will be an important step in establishing a genuine european area of criminal justice, which requires at the same time that the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings be completed as soon as possible. the fight against cross-border fraud requires close coordination and effectiveness of investigations and prosecutions at european level, allowing for increased trust of businesses and citizens in the union institutions and ensuring greater efficiency and effectiveness in the investigation and prosecution of crimes affecting the financial interests of the eu, while maintaining full respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. - it is essential to punish those who in any way flout the eu and its other institutions. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office should always take into account the autonomy of this institution, which should be independent of political power so that its transparency and autonomy can act in a neutral manner.
in writing. - the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in the process of cooperation between member states in the field of criminal justice. the european parliament is called upon to express its opinion on a legislative proposal which, at a time of budgetary consolidation, represents the concrete demand of the citizens that the financial interests of the european union be protected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the iacolino report on the proposal for a directive establishing the european public prosecutor's office, as it is a decisive step towards the creation of a european area of criminal justice with instruments to combat crime affecting the financial interests of the union. the effective fight against financial crime against eu interests is only possible if it is conducted at european level and by an institution that provides guarantees of independence, efficiency and professionalism. at a time when budgetary control is an imperative for the european institutions, national governments and european citizens, the eu has a duty to develop and implement the necessary mechanisms to ensure that financial crimes and offences are properly investigated and punished, thereby contributing to the confidence of european citizens. it is therefore imperative to ensure that the european public prosecutor's office is provided with the human and financial resources and guarantees of independence necessary for its functioning, thereby enhancing the eu area of freedom, security and justice and contributing to the establishment of a european criminal law that may in future cover the fight against other forms of cross-border crime such as organised crime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office. the criminal prosecution of infringements against the eu budget is currently the exclusive competence of the member states, and there is no competent authority at the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the proposal complements an earlier legislative proposal, which defines criminal offences and the applicable sanctions. i voted in favour of this resolution, which has its legal basis in the treaties, and in which parliament considers that this proposal represents a further step towards the creation of a european area of criminal justice and the strengthening of the instruments to combat fraud.
in writing. - the main objectives of the eppo are to contribute to the strengthening of the protection of the financial interests of the union, to increase the trust of businesses and citizens in the union institutions and to ensure greater efficiency and effectiveness in the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the eu, while maintaining full respect for the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i am in favour of this report, which creates a european area of criminal justice and strengthens the instruments to combat fraud affecting the financial interests of the union, thus increasing taxpayers' confidence in the eu. i also believe that a european public prosecutor's office can be an asset to the area of freedom, security and justice if all the member states participate, since it is necessary to protect the financial interests of the union and therefore the interests of european taxpayers.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in its conclusions of 11 december 2012, the council endorsed the commission's new approach to the negotiating frameworks with the new candidate countries, which puts the rule of law at the heart of enlargement policy and confirmed the importance in the negotiating process of chapter 23 (judiciary and fundamental rights) and chapter 24 (justice, freedom and security), which should be addressed at an early stage of the negotiations in order to set clear benchmarks and allow sufficient time to make the necessary legislative changes and institutional reforms and thus to achieve concrete results at the level of implementation. furthermore, in its communication entitled 'enlargement strategy and key challenges for 2013-2014', the commission concluded that turkey, due to its economy, strategic location and important regional role, is a strategic partner for the european union and a valuable part of the european union's economic competitiveness, and that significant reform progress has been made in the last 12 months.
in writing. - the possible accession of turkey to the european union continues to raise the greatest reservations. the persistent occupation of part of cyprus, the refusal to open ports and airports in that area, the violation of the rights of political, religious and ethnic minorities, the negative discrimination against women, the decision to exclude parties, and the annulment of legislation limiting the jurisdiction of the military courts are some illustrative examples of this. added background questions: - most of turkey is not geographically europe; - turkey has an islamic identity which is very different from the judeo-christian identity of most eu countries; - i know . strategically, an eu with borders with iraqi kurdistan would not be desirable; - the secularity of the state is only guaranteed by military imposition; - the flow of people from what would become the most populous country in the eu would ensure strong imbalances in the labour market. the recent incidents there are not helping their future accession either. the relevant question will be whether it is not preferable to grant turkey a privileged and preferential partnership status with the eu, rather than to create false expectations and hopes for an accession that the facts and circumstances will hardly allow. that is why i abstained from this vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the 2013 follow-up report on turkey in which parliament agrees with the commission's conclusion that turkey is a strategic partner for the eu and underlines that important progress has been made, pointing out new cooperation objectives.
in writing. - in this document, the european parliament welcomes the 2013 follow-up report on turkey and agrees with the commission's conclusion that turkey is a strategic partner for the eu. i voted in favour of the document, considering that there has been significant progress in reforms over the last 12 months and that the copenhagen criteria must be verified.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by highlighting the economic opportunities and the variety of industrial sectors in the arctic and sub-arctic regions, such as tourism, maritime industry and transport, renewable energy, environmental technology and clean technologies, gas and oil, offshore industry, forestry and timber industry, mining, transport and communications services, information technology and online solutions, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as agriculture and traditional livelihoods such as reindeer herding. i also recognise its impact and importance, both at regional and european level, highlighting the commitment of european actors in the business, research and development sectors. finally, i take note of the arctic council's kiruna declaration of may 2013 and its decision on the status of permanent observer of the european union as well as other state bodies and therefore urge the commission to follow up the pending seal products ban with canada and to keep the european parliament duly informed about this process.
in writing. - the relationship between the eu and the arctic is unquestionable, not least because denmark, finland and sweden are arctic countries and both finland and sweden are partly located in the arctic circle. given the contribution of the eu and its member states to research and funding, its impact through eu legislation on the environment, climate, fisheries and similar issues, as well as the possibilities for future cooperation on issues such as the development of mapping and maritime security, economic development and similar issues, it can be concluded that the eu has much to contribute to the sustainable development of the arctic. this region will be crucial to a world that is adapting to face climate change, population growth and resource scarcity. this is why we need a good eu strategic plan for the arctic, so that everyone's interests are safeguarded.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the eu arctic strategy, in which i stress the call for a joint eu policy on the arctic, as well as a coherent strategy and a concrete action plan for the eu's engagement in the arctic, with a focus on socioeconomic and environmental aspects. parliament was convinced that this joint strategic option was essential to ensure the legitimacy and local support of the eu's overall commitment to the arctic. the economic opportunities and the variety of industrial sectors in the arctic and sub-arctic regions, such as tourism, maritime industry and transport, renewable energy, environmental technology and clean technologies, gas and oil, offshore industry, forestry and timber, mining, transport and communications services, information technology and online solutions, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as agriculture and traditional livelihoods, among others, should be highlighted as sectors that may be of greater relevance at european level.
in the light of the recent developments in the arctic, the european parliament has called for a common eu policy on the arctic, as well as a coherent strategy and a concrete action plan for the eu's engagement in the arctic. the focus should be on socioeconomic and environmental aspects to ensure the legitimacy and local support of the eu's arctic engagement. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a political fallacy to talk about the troika's action without giving a picture of the situation in greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus, without recalling that the economic and financial crisis has shown the fragility of public finances and banking systems in these member states, without mentioning the imminence of the bankruptcy which forced the european commission, the central bank and the imf to request financial assistance. economic adjustment programmes were urgent responses to urgent situations and inaction would have had far more serious consequences. however, the lack of a longer time horizon for implementing the adjustment programmes and miscalculations of the economies of the member states concerned have contributed to the worsening of social situations in these countries. our fellow citizens have responded in an exemplary and courageous way to the sacrifices that have been demanded of them, but it is important to note that positive signs are beginning to appear, particularly in ireland and my country, portugal, where the unemployment rate is falling, exports are growing and confidence is gradually being regained. after the turbulence caused by economic adjustment and structural reforms, we are on the way to stability, but above all we must learn lessons for the future that will ensure that such situations do not recur, lessons that call for more transparency, greater democratic participation, the creation of a permanent and effective european crisis management mechanism that will not only allow the deterioration of economic situations in the member states to be detected in time, but also preventative intervention. our citizens demand responsible management of public resources and timely reforms that respect fiscal consolidation, do not stunt economic growth and have social justice concerns based on the values of the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8))
he asks under the blue card procedure. the honourable member has just said that there are positive signs in portugal, our country, and she mentioned in particular the fall in unemployment. unemployment is falling, madam president, because more than 200 000 portuguese people, including skilled portuguese people, have emigrated in the last two years, and because many people have already given up being on the unemployment registers and more than half of the unemployed today have no social benefits. how can the honourable member have the nerve to say that the situation is better with this data?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. dear member and fellow citizen ana gomes, i would recommend a little parsimony, a little sobriety in the intervention. what you just said isn't true. what you have just said does not correspond to what the portuguese feel, nor to what the statistics say. unemployment is falling. emigration has happened, or rather, mobility has happened and is happening, but it is happening naturally and i mean, madam, that portugal, our country, has reached the situation of needing to ask for external help because its government, the socialist government, has left the state in pre-bankruptcy, without money to ensure our social model, the payment of salaries to public servants, the payment of health care in hospitals and this is the reality that we cannot forget.
madam president, the troika has passed the examination and failed, but the troika's policy, which is what brought the troika to the examination, seems to have passed. this doesn't make any sense, strictly speaking. if you fail the troika, you have to fail the troika policy, and this commission of inquiry has ultimately chosen to kill the messenger but wants to make sure the package still gets to its destination. the report laments poverty, the destruction of health services, the destruction of the social support system, but in reality there is a hell of a lot of complaining and this is a parliament, not a wall of complaining, not even the bed of a psychoanalyst's office, and therefore it is up to us here to make decisions and solve problems. the problem is identified: it is called austerity, and the solutions are simple, they have been found, the only thing lacking is political will. if they want to kill the troika, they must bury the budget treaty because it is the guarantee of the troika after the troika. they want to kill the troika, they have to revise the statute of the ecb so that it can lend directly to the states instead of continuing to fatten the banks at the expense of the people. they want to kill the troika, renegotiate the debt but with people in mind and not the markets. this report was a missed opportunity.
madam president, i thank the rapporteurs for this balanced text and i shall begin with a part where it gives us a powerful indication of the formation of the troika and its measures. basically, a troika set up without a legal basis and which, despite not having such a legal basis, has taken decisions and some decisions which range from strong suspicions of illegality to at least strong doubts about their possible legality, such as having infringed collective action rights in some of these countries, and i would like to ask commissioner rehn directly how he feels about being a member of a commission which is the guardian of the treaties and having gone so clearly against article 3 of the treaties? and now let's look to the future. what must be done for the future? and i also say to commissioner andor here that we need a european bretton woods, a major economic and financial conference to deal with the crisis. we need to get rid of the imf and have a fully community-based european monetary fund subject to our obligations of cohesion, full employment, solidarity and we need a marshall plan for the countries of the south. none of this is radical. all of this has worked in history, and we know it has worked. the best thing that the two commissioners can do in the remainder of their mandate is to combine these three steps or else to have the courage to go to the court of justice of the european union and ask what was legal and what was not illegal in the troika.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr van dalen, i always find it curious when whole countries are blamed, but then also forgetting the role other countries play in the eurozone crisis. you talk about the rise in deficits and public debt, for example, in countries like mine, but i would like to know what you think about the fact that 20 of our biggest companies escape taxes through your country, the netherlands, that is, that tax evasion in my country would mean 60% of the deficit of the year before the crisis, or even in 2009 and 2010, the entire portuguese health system would have been paid with taxes that escaped through your country. will you or will you not call here for an end to this practice of evading taxes through the netherlands?
the two largest political groups in parliament, which have always supported budgetary consolidation policies at european and national level - the most important example being the treaty on the european union - decided to assess the consequences of the troika two months before the elections. they should be more attentive because the catastrophe of the troika policies has been known for a long time and is being felt. it does not take much knowledge to know that this model, which has been used by the imf for years all over the world, serves only two objectives: firstly, to reduce labour costs by also increasing unemployment and stealing income from the population; secondly, to promote privatisation and the distribution of public services, i.e. to transfer the wealth of workers to the pockets of bankers and large companies and capitalist monopolies. the result: poverty and the destruction of many lives and families. these are the main objectives. these pacts of aggression against these peoples and therefore the consequences were all predictable. what went right and wrong with the troika was, indeed, the very existence of the troika and of this political leadership. the peoples of these countries, like mine, do not need more evaluations, nor more democratic legitimacy for the troika, nor the same exact measures, but with a longer timeframe, nor the involvement of the european parliament in this process, nor troika without the imf, nor more planning. what the people of these countries want is to have their income, wages, pensions, rights and jobs that they have stolen back, and this can only be done by abolishing the troika and this policy of plunder and bribery which these reports obviously do not advocate.
the troika's recipe has failed. european and national leaders may well proclaim that it has been a success that no one believes. reality daily belies the fiction in which some seek refuge. check the statistics, watch what's going on, and most of all, listen to the people. is the economic recession and the increase in unemployment a success? is the worsening of inequalities and social injustices a success? is it a success to see that most people are living worse today than before the troika's intervention? what's more surprising is that they don't recognize mistakes and change course. the international monetary fund has already acknowledged that there have been serious failures, but it has not taken the necessary consequences, and in the face of the evidence of poor results, some people are ridiculously saying that people are worse off, but countries are better off. as if countries were abstractions and people were decorative elements. in my country, portugal, the adjustment programme has been nothing more than a programme of impoverishment. there are national responsibilities and there are european responsibilities. europe must change course. let's not get confused. none of the countries under rescue is in a position to solve the public debt problem in the short term if europe does not agree to the mutualisation of part of the debt. without a significant reduction in public debt interest rates and an extension of maturities, the countries under rescue will continue to diverge from the european union, lose their best-qualified young people and jeopardise social cohesion. is this what you want?
mr president, it is not easy to sum up the richness of the report we are about to vote on, but i would like to try to do so around four conclusions. firstly, we are faced today with the risk of populism, but we must recognize that this trend began at the highest level of european political responsibility. the explanation of the eurozone crisis on the basis of the virtuous on the one hand and the sinners on the other was in fact populist, wrong and incompetent. today we know that there is no invisible hand that can self-regulate markets, let alone financial markets, nor that can promote a natural convergence between unequal economies, subject to very strong competition, sharing a single currency and violent globalisation. secondly, the troika may have been the possible answer in the absence of an appropriate initiative at community level. however, its recommendations proved to be technically weak, forecasting errors were gross and accountability and democratic control over its decisions were virtually non-existent. today we are suffering the consequences of this with rampant unemployment, increased debt and an on-going recession. third conclusion: in the face of this unemployment, the destruction of the economies and societies of europe's periphery, there is an urgent need to correct the revenue levies, restore respect for fundamental human and social rights, relaunch investment and frame the adjustment processes still under way within democratic european structures. fourthly, we must fill the gaps in the architecture of the euro zone without taboos. the creation of a european monetary fund, the redefinition of the european central bank's functions, the mutualisation of part of the sovereign debt or the creation of a european social protection must be discussed, building on the debate opened in 2012 by the herman van rompuy and commission blueprint reports. this process we've just been through will leave very serious scars. we have the lucidity to learn from them and the moral obligation to correct them for the future.
madam president, commissioner, in a discussion of a report on the troika, the first word should be pride in the people who have made many sacrifices so that their states are in a better position today than they were then. and that is why i want to leave this word to the irish and to the portuguese in a very special way, certainly also to the greeks and the cypriots. and i must make the opposite judgment here with regard to governments which have irresponsibly left the states without money in their coffers to meet the minimum requirements, such as the payment of wages and the payment of pensions. these governments, which have left countries in a position of having to borrow, deserve an extraordinarily negative judgment and i could not help doing so here. the troika was an emergency solution. it is not a perfect solution and there are many aspects which can be criticized, starting with the social situation, but we must also consider the following: what if states could not, because of lack of money, pay wages and pensions? what would happen to the social situation then? it would be far worse than the one we have been experiencing in recent years and this aspect cannot be forgotten by anyone and i regret that the left often forgets it. i would also like to make it very clear that there are good signs in the economies that are, have been or are coming out of adjustment programmes, with unemployment falling, more companies being created, exports rising, the economy growing above what was initially forecast and i know what i am talking about because i know the situation in portugal from the start. i would like to end with a very special word to the rapporteurs for the extraordinary work they have done and, in particular, to my colleague othmar karas for the way he has conducted the work on this report. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr diogo feio, member of the european parliament, referred to the conditions that led to the bailout request in several countries. do you agree with the portuguese finance minister in the present government who told the european parliament delegation, who was there as part of the investigation into the troika's activities, about the decisive role played by the deauville summit between mrs merkel and mr sarkozy when they asked for a psi and the impact this had on speculation against the euro, which particularly affected weaker, weaker countries, such as portugal? if you agree, why didn't you mention that other aspect?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. madam president, madam ana gomes, it is precisely because i did not want there to be a psi for portugal that it was important to implement the adjustment programme. it is precisely because of this that it is important to comply with it so that economic conditions can improve later, but this part is forgotten in your whole question. it is not worth seeing the glass half empty or half full, we have to see the whole thing, and, mrs ana gomes, i cannot be proud of the situation of a government which did not have the minimum to be able to pay salaries and pensions, which are the minimum obligations of a state governed by the rule of law.
as the european parliament acknowledges in these important reports, the troika's policies have been incompetent, anti-democratic, anti-social, unjust and in fact anti-european, destroying the trust of millions of citizens in the european union. in portugal, the blindness of the troika was joined by the austericidal obstinacy of a government more troika-oriented than the troika, which was bent on impoverishing the portuguese, destroying the welfare state and weakening the state in general. in these three years, while banks, some large companies and rich criminals have become richer thanks to state aid, privatisations, tax havens and tax amnesties granted with the blessing of the troika, the middle classes and the poor have been brought under the yoke of brutal taxes, unprecedented unemployment, indecent cuts in wages and pensions and social benefits, and smes still today without credit to produce and create jobs. the situation is so stifling that just yesterday a wide range of economists, from left to right, including ministers in the government of durão barroso, published a manifesto calling for the renegotiation of the public debt, which will rise this year to 130% of gdp from 94% in 2010.
in writing. austerity measures and the way they have been implemented have had very severe impacts on citizens in areas such as employment, poverty, social issues, health or education, radically weakening our families and our businesses. the truth is that the results expected from the austerity plans in portugal are far from the results the government has been able to achieve. in 2014, gdp is expected to grow by 2.5% and the best and most recent forecast is 0.8%, three times less than the growth initially forecast. the deficit would be 2,3% in 2014; however, this target has been adjusted to almost double - 4%. the imf estimated an unemployment rate of 14% for 2013, which has been revised upwards. in 2013, we reached 127,8% of gdp in public debt, whereas the commission's 2011 estimate was 112,1%. today's reality is far short of where we should have been. despite all the austerity imposed on the portuguese, the government has consistently proved incapable of matching what was planned with what was achieved. given the dramatic social consequences and the lack of economic results, there is an urgent need to change the recipe.
as regards the list of members of the un human rights council, i cannot but regret that the elected members are chosen by regional blocs without insisting on the need to make the candidates respect a basic standard of human rights protection. i hope that the member states of the european union will insist on this need and coordinate in good time. i also hope that the member states will condemn the reprisals against human rights and civil society activists who have participated in the periodic reviews and who play an essential role in the credibility of the reviews. we must accompany and support them. finally, i would like to stress the support of this european parliament resolution for the recommendation of high commissioner navanethem pillay for the establishment of an international inquiry and investigation mechanism for sri lanka, given that five years after the end of the civil war the government has still not established and is in fact preventing an impartial and independent inquiry into the heinous crimes committed in the final months of the conflict. this investigation is an essential requirement for reconciliation and peace in the country.
we leave here a suggestion for this session of the human rights council at the united nations. the suggestion is that the european union should address in this forum, truthfully and frankly, the way in which it is daily calling into question in its member states many of the human rights enshrined in its universal declaration. the right to social security, the right to protection in the event of unemployment, the right to fair wages, the right to food, the right to medical care, the right to free education - these and other rights enshrined in the universal declaration, for example in portugal but not only, are under attack by the european union, its treaties, its policies and guidelines. this is the same european union that claims the right to lecture the world on human rights. we reject this narrow and instrumental view of human rights. we reject the idea that human rights are forgotten at home, where they are violated by friendly countries, and that they are used as a pretext for external interference and interventionism, in defiance of the letter and spirit of the united nations charter.
blue-card question. – how would you manage national asylum and immigration policies in an area of free movement across borders? also, how do you intend to abolish free movement within the eu and rebuild national borders, and do you think this will contribute to economic growth? do you not think dismantling european border services and creating 28 individual systems would involve costs?
and since this is probably one of the last debates we will have on this subject, i would like, in this very short minute, to give some retrospective of what this mandate was, even because part of what i worked on while i was here in parliament, the european refugee programme, is now in the report that sylvie guillaume so well took from the asylum and immigration fund. the summary is very simple and is contained in these two reports. while the member states have a certain amount of leeway to accept increases in funds or to accept less, to cut less, in a report like that of my colleague mr iacolino, from the internal security fund, and by the way, mr salvatore, i am going to vote against your report because i do not want a police europe, i prefer a humanitarian europe. in the case of the sylvie guillaume report, the member states did an extraordinary thing, they said: we will cut the cake, the cake will be smaller, but we want a bigger part of the smaller cake for the union. and with that we don't have refugee resettlement as we thought we would have in this fund, we don't have funds to invest in the integration of immigrants, we don't have funds to invest in all the things we wanted in asylum, like, for example, having a refugee resettlement unit in easo and then of course the states will say: we need more money in a fund like the salvatore iacolino fund, for internal security. well, it is this dysfunction, this almost schizophrenic side of european policies that i hope in the next mandate, once and for all, can be healed and that we can have a sensible policy where the border management side exists but, above all, where the tragedies that we have seen in recent years stop and that will be when the work that we have done here, people like me, sylvie guillaume and other colleagues, can be brought to good harbour and europe can have a good border relationship with its neighbours and above all a humanitarian action with those people who need, really need, are the most vulnerable in the world, to be saved and to have a new life and a new opportunity in a future continent that wants to have. thank you very much, and thank you to the commissioner too, for these years of working together.
blue-card question. – do you really think that member states would be better facing the problems of integrating asylum seekers and migrants without eu assistance? you spoke about unemployment – what would be an acceptable level of unemployment for you to make the eu accept asylum seekers? the eu has a small proportion of the world’s asylum seekers, and much poorer countries are paying the price and bearing the brunt of integrating asylum seekers.
blue-card question. – mr claeys, i was not going to put a question, but you talked about autism and this caught my attention. autism, of course, is a mental condition; it also implies a certain closed-mindedness. we have been colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and foreign affairs for five years and i have heard you say the same things again and again. i can tell you – from my experience – that i have changed my position on some things – for instance, the return fund. i think this is useful in crisis-stricken countries where immigrants are stuck without jobs and want to go back to their own countries, but i would like to hear something bold from you. tell us something that you have learnt in these five years about your country not being alone; about you having a single european space and about having tragedies on the borders of the mediterranean. do not always give us the same talking points from your party. what have you learned about open-mindedness and humane behaviour that would help us to deal with these immigrants from the outside? tell us something like that.
blue-card question. – mr president, i am really ashamed of the racist and xenophobic terms that were used by mr[nbsp ]griffin. my only question to him is this: is he here to make any concrete suggestions or amendments to the legislation? is your policy serious, mr[nbsp ]griffin, or are you just shouting? i hope you will not be re-elected if you are indeed seeking re-election, because the kinds of statements you have just made are shameful for this parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. - i know . the subcommittee on security and defence of parliament's committee on foreign affairs has issued an opinion on this report, which highlights the shortcomings of the proposals for a directive on the new community rules on information security networks and what they may mean for the external security of the union. in this, as in other dossiers, the interaction between internal and external security is often ignored. it is therefore vital that the directive contains mechanisms for communication, articulation and coordination at all levels of the security structures of the european union because this is not a matter that can be reduced to the functioning of the internal market and the interests of citizens as mere consumers. given that information networks are no longer manageable at internal level alone, given the global interconnections that characterize information transmissions, it is important that this directive ensures that information security harmonisation at community level takes place between member states and is articulated within the framework of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy, that is to say with the high representative and vice-president of the commission and the external action services involved.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the dollar. the text of the question is known, so i shall not read it, but allow me to make some additional remarks. the european business centres in asia created by the union are the subject of this report. the promotion of trade and investment is a competence of the member states, but union support for access to external markets is welcome and can even be crucial, especially for those countries which have no or limited resources of their own. the objective of union action, in particular through the establishment of these business centres in third countries, is to bring added value which necessarily involves strengthening the support services of the member states by representing the collective interests of the union and by providing specialised services in the internationalisation of european small and medium-sized enterprises. several business centers have been established in asia in recent years. in 2008 the first was set up in india, in 2010 in china and thailand, and the european commission announced its intention to set up support services in vietnam, indonesia, the philippines and malaysia, which will greatly expand the coverage of these centres. the european parliament has been unhesitatingly supportive of these union initiatives, but always favouring a coherent approach, and in this regard parliament has called for more structured coordination between the european commission and the member states in the countries where these centres exist, in particular - i quote a resolution of this parliament from february 2008 - six years ago - i quote closer cooperation with chambers of commerce, trade associations and trade promotion agencies of member states located in third countries, as well as an appropriate exchange of information between delegations, embassies of member states, other governmental bodies linked to external trade and the european business associations concerned, to name a few. we have also called for the rapid establishment of a coordination platform for the internationalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises in order to speed up the coordination and use of existing initiatives. the funding has been available since 2012, but its implementation is delayed until 2014. in view of this context and the high interest and added value that the union can bring to the promotion of external trade and investment of the member states, at a time when several years have passed since the first business centres were set up and new centres are being considered, it was important to bring the european commission to the european parliament to answer us on whether the effectiveness of these support structures has been as expected, whether their performance has been satisfactory, what can be done to improve their performance and what suggestions the commission suggests to improve the management of the centres, current and future, their services and their visibility, especially with small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have their own resources to act even with the government, that the union's action can be truly valuable.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the allocation of quotas must be in line with changes in the relative abundance of the species, which is assessed on the basis of up-to-date scientific information on the status of the resource and the stock concerned. this is true both for relations between the european union and third countries and within the european union itself. and as far as the fisheries in the north-east atlantic are concerned, it is the allocation of quotas among member states itself that merits serious discussion on the basis of the available empirical evidence. the evolution of the stock has led, for example, in portugal to a higher relative abundance of sardine in national waters in recent years, so that the quota currently fixed is inadequate in relation to the actual situation of the resource, as is shown, moreover, by the fact that the quota closure is, as a rule, much earlier than in other countries and in a situation of proven abundance of the resource. we therefore insist that the allocation of resources between member states should follow the evolution of the stock and the relative abundance of resources in each zone. we insist that this is the only way to avoid the imposition of absolute, unjust and unrealistic stability in the name of relative stability.
i believe that in all languages it is said that you cannot make an omelet without eggs. now, the real problem is that not only are there fewer and fewer eggs in the basket, but some of them are rotten and therefore cannot help but be a poisoned gift. there is no economic recovery. i would like to see it demonstrated here that there are real signs of economic recovery and that therefore our choices or our priorities could somehow be based on some optimism. the multiannual financial framework which was approved by a majority of the three largest parties in this parliament last year determines in an absolutely decisive way the choices we can make and there can be no whitewashing of responsibilities here, no saying that we want a bigger budget or that we wanted to do better, or we wanted to do otherwise, when the multiannual financial framework was approved. in fact, although this year it is said that there is a priority for research and innovation, projects which could have had to do with real growth and with putting money in a way which could actually combat youth unemployment have been frozen at the same time. in the field of humanitarian aid, we already have a third of the aid money - can you confirm that, commissioner? - a third of the humanitarian aid has been spent by the end of february 2014 and we do not know what lies ahead, but at the same time there are no reserves, there seems to be no problem in continuing to increase or enhance frontex and the fund for the return of refugees. i would like to ask you, commissioner, where are you going to get the money for these expectations and the needs that have been created in the meantime?
madam president, commissioner, i would like to tell you that i have been appointed by imco as rapporteur for an opinion and that i am responsible for giving an opinion on the heading 1a competitiveness for growth and employment. i welcome the forecast of a 2% increase in expenditure for 2015 in support of the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes, the cosme programme. it is essential that the commission develops training programmes on market surveillance, consumer education, financial literacy and the european consumer protection network in order to promote the confidence of europeans in the single market by monitoring consumer markets through an evaluation panel. i would remind you that, contrary to what has just been said here, the budget for 2015 will be lower in real terms than that for 2013. new flexibility mechanisms are necessary in view of the unusually high level of outstanding invoices at the end of 2013, which is unlikely to prevent the high budget deficit forecast for 2014. the union must fulfil its legal obligations without committing or delaying payments.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i just want to say that this report is very important, especially for the trilogue which will take place after the elections on 25 may, because it defines our doctrine, the strategy of parliament, with regard to the nomination of the candidate for the presidency of the european commission.
rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to add the word ‘european’ before ‘legislative procedures’. that is my proposal: ‘european legislative procedures’.
in writing. - i approve the following report as it aims to support member states in establishing strategies to organise legal migration and to increase their capacity to develop, implement, monitor and, in general, evaluate all immigration and integration strategies, policies and measures for third country nationals, including the legal instruments of the union. i agree that the fund should support the exchange of information, best practice and cooperation between the different administrative departments as well as with other member states. i think it is important to provide for the possibility for member states to draw up national programmes in which the actions they take part in may include the immediate family members of third-country nationals, to the extent that this is necessary for the effective implementation of these actions. i also stress the importance for member states to ensure that their national programmes include actions focused on the specific objectives of this regulation, allowing for the allocation of resources in order to effectively achieve the objective of this report.
in writing. - the stockholm programme stresses that well-managed migration can be beneficial for all stakeholders and recognises both the opportunities and challenges inherent in the increasing mobility of people. in the framework of the development of a common asylum policy, in accordance with the principle of solidarity and responsibility-sharing, it is necessary to establish mechanisms aimed at balancing the efforts of member states with regard to the reception and the responsibility for the reception of persons in need of international protection and of displaced persons. a well-organised legal immigration policy, as well as more effective economic and social integration strategies for legally resident third-country nationals, will help to maximise the benefits of immigration. and a credible policy in this area has to include a component of the fight against irregular immigration, as well as the existence of an effective and sustainable return policy. i therefore support the creation of this asylum and migration fund which will allow financial resources at union level to become more flexible and coherent in terms of scope and applicability in order to support the development of the common policy on asylum and migration.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's asylum system is not disrupted. however, the mediterranean region is the one with the greatest instability on its borders, whether maritime or land, so the application of these funds should be closer.
in writing. - policies relating to the area of freedom, security and justice have evolved steadily in recent years. its importance has been confirmed by the stockholm programme and its action plan, the implementation of which is a strategic priority for the next five years covering areas such as migration (legal migration and integration, asylum, irregular migration and return), security (prevention and fight against terrorism and organised crime, police cooperation) and external border management including visa policy), as well as the external dimension of these policies. better economic and social integration of legally resident third-country nationals remains the key to maximising the benefits of immigration.
in writing. - the area of freedom, security and justice is becoming increasingly important for the union, as demonstrated by the increase in the budget available in this new financial framework 2014-2020. in order to make the management and use of funding more efficient, the three funds for refugees, the integration fund for third-country nationals and the return fund have been merged into one. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the merger has brought improvements to the new asylum and migration fund.
in writing. - i approve the following recommendation, given that the adoption of the council decision is intended to allow safer and more environmentally friendly recycling of non-eu vessels. on 15 may 2009, the international maritime organisation adopted the hong kong international convention on the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships. to enter into force and take effect, it will need to be ratified by the main flag states and recyclers. i believe that the adoption of the new ship recycling regulation applies the explicit right, provided for in article 1 (2) of the hong kong convention, to take more stringent measures to ensure truly safe and environmentally sound ship recycling.
in writing. - the international maritime organization adopted in 2009 the hong kong international convention on the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships. it will enter into force after ratification by the main flag states and recyclers. the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries has been prohibited since 1998 and, due to the various hazardous materials on board, any ship destined for scrapping is considered hazardous waste. unfortunately, it's hard to tell when ships become waste. the export ban has proved difficult to enforce and has been almost systematically ignored by the shipping community since its adoption. the hong kong convention will be a major improvement globally on the current situation and i think we should endorse the council recommendation allowing member states to ratify or accede to the hong kong convention. it will be a step towards safer and greener recycling of non-eu ships worldwide. i believe, however, that only truly safe and environmentally friendly recycling can be achieved by going beyond the provisions of the hong kong convention, as adopted in the new ship recycling regulation.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not dismantled. at the end of their useful life, most large seagoing merchant ships continue to be dismantled in low-quality yards located in asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh), usually by the ship-sanding method, resulting in a considerable environmental and health impact. it is therefore essential that the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships is applied. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i support this report, given that there is introspective work that needs to be done in the eu on this whole process, on the objectives, core values and consequences of operations in relation to the countries of the troika programme in the euro area. the imf's stated objective in its assistance operations under the troika is internal devaluation, notably through cuts in wages and pensions. these actions have particularly affected the most vulnerable social groups, such as women, young people and the elderly. i would also stress the worrying increase in poverty levels. i believe that there is a weak democratic legitimacy of the troika's negotiations and of the eurogroup's decisions, and that this legitimacy needs to be strengthened, given that the troika is a purely technical body. the european parliament must be more involved, giving the process of economic recovery democratic legitimacy and political and social sensitivity. i believe that macroeconomic adjustment programmes should also be evaluated with a view to improving the legal and institutional arrangements for a more effective system of budgetary control.
in writing. - this parliament's own-initiative report aims to assess the action of the troika (the european commission, the european central bank and the imf) in the member states which have requested financial rescues in the course of the economic and financial crisis. in this context, several members of the european parliament visited the member states concerned (portugal, greece, ireland and cyprus) and carried out questionnaires to the entities involved in the adjustment programmes in order to ascertain the effectiveness, democratic legitimacy and appropriateness of the measures taken. the conclusions indicate that the role of the troika was crucial at the time in preventing an economic collapse and much more complicated social situations. although positive, the work of the troika should be reviewed on a number of points, notably the need for enhanced democratic legitimacy and transparency, greater dialogue with the social partners and greater adequacy and flexibility of programmes to the realities of the member states. the main proposals in this initiative, which aims to put an end to the harmful consequences of nascent crisis management systems, include making the financial assistance process fully european, excluding the imf and creating a european monetary fund with a permanent and robust capacity to act. i voted in favour of this report.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the commission has decided to extend the period of suspension of the operation of the european monetary system to the end of the year. in view of the above, several members of the european parliament made on-the-spot visits to the countries concerned and carried out questionnaires to the entities involved in the adjustment programmes in order to ascertain issues such as the effectiveness, democratic legitimacy and appropriateness of the measures taken. the conclusions of this investigation lead to the conclusion that the role of the troika was fundamental at the time in preventing an economic collapse and much more complicated social situations. although positive, the work of the troika needs to be revised on a number of points, namely democratic legitimacy and enhanced transparency, more dialogue with the social partners and greater adequacy and flexibility of programmes to the realities of the member states. the main proposals in this initiative, which aims to put an end to the harmful consequences of nascent crisis management systems, are to make this process fully european, to exclude the imf and to create a european monetary fund with a permanent and robust capacity to act. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in the report, which has been approved by the european parliament, the main aim is to whitewash the responsibilities of the european union, national governments and the political forces of the right and social democracy in the deep economic, social and political crisis in which they have plunged several countries by imposing memoranda of understanding which, as reality shows, are genuine pacts of aggression against workers and peoples, instruments of impoverishment, economic destruction and social backsliding. this objective is inseparable from the ideological maneuvers aimed at falsifying the real social and economic situation in the member states as the elections to the european parliament approach. this is evidenced by the fact that they contain a set of alibis, presenting the intervention of the troika as a 'necessary solution', when reality proves that it has established itself as another problem and a factor in the deepening of the crisis, insists on the manipulation that the crisis is a fatality and that therefore the imposition of the memoranda of understanding of the troika was the only possible way. this position is an attempt to conceal the real reasons for the crisis, which lie in the policies and the pillars of the european union.
in the case of the euro, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the euro is not used as a means of financing the single currency. in the face of an exceptional situation, the eu had to tackle a very serious problem, which could have had very painful consequences, without knowing what weapons to use. it is therefore natural that along the path, which is very thorny and unknown, less correct decisions have been made. i think, however, that in general the bailout programmes have been successful, despite the excessive recession and unemployment levels, especially among young people, in some countries.
in writing. - having voted in favour of the karas/hoang ngoc report (and also the cercas report) on the activities of the troika in the countries under financial assistance, because i agree with many of the criticisms and recommendations, but i do not share some aspects of these reports. firstly, the troika solution was an emergency solution to deal with exceptional situations for which the union was not prepared; the criticism of the legitimacy of the troika therefore seems to me to be frankly exaggerated. secondly, the social situations described are largely the result of the budgetary, economic and social crisis and not of the action of the troika (not to mention the harmful effects of drug overdose, as happened in portugal). secondly, to blame the painful effects of the social crisis mainly on the adjustment programmes ends up by absolving the governments of the countries concerned of their heavy responsibility and provides them with a convenient excuse at the domestic level. the heavy social costs of budgetary and economic adjustment are undeniable, and are aggravated by the inability or overzealousness of national governments. but the balance of adjustment can only be properly assessed against the alternative of non-adjustment, namely budgetary collapse, exit from the euro and perhaps leaving the eu.
in writing. - i know . it was set up to assess the work of the troika (the european commission, the european central bank and the imf) in countries that requested financial bailouts during the european economic crisis, namely portugal, greece, cyprus and ireland. this report also took account of the european parliament's on-the-spot visits to the countries concerned, in order to assess the effectiveness, democratic legitimacy and adequacy of the measures taken. the conclusions i would like to draw are: the action of the troika has avoided an economic collapse and further complicated social situations. despite these positive aspects, it is necessary to review the question of democratic legitimacy and transparency, dialogue with the social partners and greater adequacy and flexibility of programmes to the realities of each member state. finally, i would like to stress that i am in favour of the creation of a european monetary fund with a permanent and robust capacity to act which will prevent future crises. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in the report, which has been approved by the european parliament, the main aim is to whitewash the responsibilities of the european union, national governments and the political forces of the right and social democracy in the deep economic, social and political crisis in which they have plunged several countries by imposing memoranda of understanding which, as reality shows, are genuine pacts of aggression against workers and peoples, instruments of impoverishment, economic destruction and social backsliding. this objective is inseparable from the ideological maneuvers aimed at falsifying the real social and economic situation in the member states of the european union as the elections to the european parliament approach. the fact that they contain a set of alibis, presenting the intervention of the troika as a necessary solution when reality proves that it has become yet another problem and a factor in deepening the crisis, insists on the manipulation that the crisis is inevitable and that therefore the imposition of the troika's memoranda of understanding was the only possible way forward. this position is an attempt to hide the real reasons for the crisis, which lie in the policies and the pillars of the european union.
in writing. - i approve the following report because i consider it of the utmost importance in view of the fact that the economic and financial crisis experienced in the euro area forced the implementation of measures of the economic adjustment programme in response to the crisis in greece (may 2010 and march 2012), ireland (december 2010), portugal (may 2011) and cyprus (june 2013) which directly and indirectly affected the employment levels and living conditions of eu citizens. according to the commission's october 2013 quarterly analysis entitled 'the employment and social situation in the eu', the sharp fall in gdp in greece, portugal and ireland was mainly reflected in the decline in employment. i would point out that, under article 151 tfeu, the measures taken by the eu and the member states must respect the fundamental social rights enshrined in the european social charter of 1961 and the community charter of the fundamental social rights of workers of 1989, in particular with a view to improving social dialogue. however, i would point out that throughout the troika process the european parliament and the national social representation bodies have been completely marginalised at all stages of the adjustment programmes and that this position needs to be reviewed for the future.
in writing. - regretting only some of the social consequences of the troika's policies, this report does not change its political direction and proposes pseudo-changes in the way the troika operates. it is not more evaluations, nor more democratic legitimacy, nor the same measures more spaced out in time, nor the involvement of the ep in this process, nor troika without the imf, nor more planning that the people of these countries, such as portugal, need. what the people of these countries want is to have their income, their wages, their pensions, their rights and their jobs, which they have stolen from them, returned to them. the only way to defend the peoples is to abolish the troika and abandon the policy of plunder and loansharking, which this report obviously does not advocate. it was necessary and imperative that the ep should say a clear no to the continuation of the troika, if the amendments we proposed had been approved. so this report is harmless and of no use to the people.
in the case of the euro, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the euro is not used as a means of financing the single currency. in the face of an exceptional situation, the eu had to tackle a very serious problem, which could have had very painful consequences, without knowing what weapons to use. it is therefore natural that along the path, which is very thorny and unknown, less correct decisions have been made. i think, however, that in general the bailout programmes have been successful, despite the excessive recession and unemployment levels, especially among young people, in some countries. we must also take steps to minimise the social consequences of the troika's policies. now that the signs of a relapse are starting to appear, it is the ideal time to tackle this problem.
in writing. - like the report assessing the role of the troika in the countries concerned, this report focuses on the social aspects, in particular on issues such as employment, social security and education. the sovereign and public debt crisis in the countries involved required a clear and rapid response. economic adjustment programmes have had a direct and indirect impact on employment rates and the living conditions of european citizens. i think that now, with the troika's intervention completed, member states must implement clear measures for growth so that unemployment levels fall to pre-crisis levels. in addition, together with the european commission, member states should implement existing programmes and channel funding towards job creation in the union. we can't let a whole generation go without work. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report does not change the political direction which is sickening the policies of the troika. it laments some social consequences. it also proposes pseudo-changes in the way the troika works. the people of these countries, like those of portugal, do not need more evaluations, nor more democratic legitimacy, nor more time-spaced measures, nor the involvement of the ep in this process, nor troika meetings without the imf, nor more planning. what the people of these countries want is to have their incomes, their wages, their pensions, their rights, their jobs, which they have stolen from them, returned to them. and that can only be done by abolishing the troika and this policy of looting and hoarding, which this report obviously does not advocate. the amendments we have proposed would have been adopted and the ep would have said no to the continuation of the troika. so this report was useless and we voted against it, of course.
in writing. - i approve the following report as i believe that the financial interests of the union should be protected by proportionate measures applied throughout the expenditure cycle, in particular by preventing, detecting and investigating irregularities, recovering funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used. and, where appropriate, the application of administrative and financial penalties in accordance with regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012. i would stress, however, that in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, the member states should be primarily responsible, through their management and control systems, for the implementation and control of the national programmes. support provided under the specific regulations should be implemented in close cooperation between the commission and the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - internal security is of paramount importance to the whole european construction project. it is not only directly linked to the daily life of the citizen, but also to the whole image of the eu. a safe european space is also part of the image the eu can give to the world. asylum and migration are also linked to internal security, as the lack of economic conditions for those seeking europe to live in could create a climate of insecurity in certain places.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted. these policies are at the heart of the european project to create an area without internal borders in which european citizens and third-country nationals can enter, move around, live and work, bringing with them new ideas, capital, knowledge and innovation, or filling gaps in national labour markets, confident that their rights are fully respected and their safety guaranteed. the increasing importance of policies in the field of home affairs was confirmed by the stockholm programme and has also been subject to major changes under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - this report, which is part of a general package on the asylum, migration and integration fund, sets out the general guidelines on management and coordination, while protecting the interests of the union. the management of funding for migration, asylum, integration and internal security will be centralised in the european commission, where the commission, through the national programmes, approves expenditure and actions to be taken, which will then be evaluated and reported. there will also be stricter criteria for granting union aid and flexibility and speed in emergency situations. i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve the report because i consider that crime, and in particular organised crime, is a serious threat to the security of european citizens and the development of the internal market. police cooperation between member states and with third countries is an essential tool in the effective fight against forms of crime which are now predominantly transnational in nature. i believe that in order to win the fight against crime and to manage crises effectively, it is essential that there is a common management of resources by the eu and the member states, as defined by the commission. the eligible actions therefore enable, for example, the exchange of information, training, the acquisition of technical equipment and new technologies, which in my view are essential to achieve the objective of the report.
in writing. as i have always maintained, the issue of internal security deserves as much attention as external security. existing funds should be made available to the police forces of the member states.
in writing. - crime, and organised crime in particular, is a serious threat to the security of european citizens and to the development of the internal market. police cooperation between member states and with third countries is therefore an essential tool for effectively combating forms of crime which are now predominantly transnational. the fight against criminal activities typical of organised crime, including money laundering, meets the requirements of protecting the lawful economy and protecting the market in the event of changes. the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime and crisis management constitutes, together with the instrument on asylum, one of the two pillars of the internal security fund in the multiannual financial framework of the european union for 2014-2020.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. in the world we live in today, full of threats and challenges, i consider it essential that internal security has the necessary resources. the prevention of international organised crime, terrorism and human trafficking, for example, should have a european response, in cooperation with global partners. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that the mechanism chosen for the distribution and implementation of resources under the future funds in the field of home affairs must reconcile the need for continuity and stability on the one hand with the need for greater flexibility and adaptability on the other. this was the line followed by the report with which i identify.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the visa system is not used in the member states. here, databases and cross-referencing provide excellent support for the issuing of visas to non-eu individuals, thus simplifying this process.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's borders are protected in a manner that is compatible with the european union's human rights policy. the events that continue to happen with illegal migrants entering europe have to be prevented. but this will only be possible with support at the source of the problem, in the countries from which migrants are fleeing. this new external borders and visa fund will have an operational function of effectively protecting the external borders through the visa process and making the whole process more flexible. although i believe that our migration policy needs to be reformed, i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - i support this report because it is important to ensure a high level of network and information security in the eu. in this regard, it is important to improve legal certainty, strengthen safeguards and the protection of individuals and their privacy in order to ensure control of their personal data and trust in the digital environment, create a culture of risk management and improve information sharing between private and public entities.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to propose a new directive on the protection of personal data. the resilience and stability of networks and information systems, as well as the continuity of essential services, are crucial for the smooth functioning of the internal market and, in particular, for the future development of the digital single market. the aim is to improve the security of the internet and of the private networks and information systems that support the functioning of our societies and economies. the development of relationships and exchanges of confidence between public and private actors should therefore be supported. the commission has proposed that the member states should designate more than one competent authority per member state to monitor the application of the directive. in addition, each member state should appoint a single desk, which is responsible, among other things, for participation in the cooperation network. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive aims to ensure a high common level of network and information security. in order to enhance the effectiveness of the proposed measures, the commission requires member states to increase their levels of preparedness and improve cooperation between them. to that end, operators of critical infrastructure, such as energy, transport and the main information society service providers, as well as public administrations, should take appropriate measures to manage security risks and report serious incidents to the competent national authorities.
in writing. - networks and information systems and services play a vital role in society. their reliability and security are essential for the freedom of citizens of the union as well as for economic activities and social well-being. i am voting in favour of this report which establishes a cooperation mechanism at european union level to enable the exchange of information and the coordinated prevention, detection and response to threats to network and information security ('nis'). it should also be noted that for this mechanism to be effective and inclusive, it is essential that all member states have a minimum of capabilities and a strategy to ensure a high level of isr in their territory, with minimum security requirements applying to at least certain information infrastructure market operators, in order to promote a risk management culture and ensure reporting of the most serious incidents.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the proposal because more support is needed for specific activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing. in this context, the role of the committees of supervisors and the establishment of international accounting and auditing standards, in particular for the iascf, including efrag and piob, should be highlighted. i therefore understand that community co-financing ensures that the beneficiaries are able to carry out independently and effectively the public interest tasks assigned to them.
in writing. - this programme provides for community financing for bodies which contribute to the objectives of establishing international accounting and auditing standards in the european union. the previous programme expired at the end of 2013 and the objective of this proposal is to renew its operation for the 2014-2020 funding period. community co-financing ensures that beneficiaries are able to carry out their public interest tasks independently and effectively, receiving clear, stable, diversified, secure and sufficient funding to enable them to perform their tasks with high quality. it aims to ensure the possibility of transparency and comparability of company data in the eu and a standardisation and convergence of the data made available through compliance with international rules. the practice covered by this legislation is of the utmost importance for the improvement of the functioning of the internal market by supporting the functioning, activities or actions of those bodies in the areas of financial reporting and auditing. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the 2014-2020 period is perhaps the most important of the entire process of european integration. so the issues directly related to finance and monetary matters are so important that there has to be a demonstration on the part of the institutions that they are consistent and that everything flows as transparently as possible. the period of time mentioned is the one that will be marked as the exit from the crisis and the return to economic growth.
in writing. - this programme provides for community financing for bodies which contribute to the objectives of establishing international accounting and auditing standards in the european union. the previous programme expired at the end of 2013 and the objective of this proposal is to renew its operation for the 2014-2020 funding period. community co-financing ensures that beneficiaries are able to carry out their public interest tasks independently and effectively, and receive clear, stable, diversified, secure and sufficient funding to enable them to perform their tasks with high quality. it aims to ensure the possibility of transparency and comparability of company data in the eu and a standardisation and convergence of the data made available through compliance with international rules. the practice covered by this legislation is of the utmost importance for the improvement of the functioning of the internal market by supporting the functioning, activities or actions of those bodies in the areas of financial reporting and auditing. in view of the virtualities of this legislation, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - the crisis that has hit financial markets since 2008 has put the issue of financial reporting and auditing at the heart of the union's political priorities. a common and effective framework for financial reporting is essential for the internal market, the smooth functioning of capital markets and the achievement of an integrated market for financial services in the european union. i approve this report as it sets out a financial framework for the entire duration of the union programme 2014-2020 and there should be effective budgetary discipline and good cooperation on budgetary matters and financial management.
in writing. - i am in favour of this because it is indeed necessary to introduce essential requirements for the protection of health and safety, for electromagnetic compatibility and to avoid harmful interference. these requirements are translated into technical requirements in the non-binding harmonised standards, as in other new approach legislation, within a framework for the placing on the market, free movement and putting into service in the eu of radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment. the directive entered into force in 1999 and has played a key role in the completion of an internal market in this area.
in the last few years, the number of mobile devices and wireless applications has increased significantly, creating risks of interference between various products. therefore, it is essential to use the radio spectrum efficiently. the report advocates some amendments to the european commission's proposal, aimed at avoiding unnecessary administrative burdens, ensuring a high level of consumer protection, improving market surveillance, achieving a higher level of consistency with the new legislative framework and strengthening legal certainty. the report also advocates the need to step up efforts to introduce a common charger, so as to simplify the use of equipment such as mobile phones and reduce waste and costs, which will benefit consumers. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - excessive and uncontrolled magnetic waves are harmful to human health. the high number of radio transmissions and the disturbances they cause not only to humans but to all communications - with a high number of frequencies and transmissions - can in some cases lead to insecurity and even be used by terrorist groups. it is therefore essential that member states do their utmost to comply with the european directives on this sensitive subject and that the new marketing of these products is carried out in accordance with the new european directives for the common good.
in writing. - i agree that mobile phones placed on the market should be compatible with a common charger, in order to simplify the use of these devices and reduce waste and costs for consumers. the number of mobile devices and wireless applications has grown exponentially in recent years, leading to more and more waste. a common charger will substantially reduce this waste with the corresponding financial gains for everyone.
in writing. - this directive establishes a regulatory framework for the making available on the market and putting into service of radio equipment in the european union, excluding radio equipment used exclusively in activities relating to public security, defence and state security. i am in favour of this directive, but would like to stress the importance of the protection of personal data and privacy of users and subscribers of radio equipment and that protection against fraud can be enhanced by specific features of radio equipment. therefore, in certain cases, radio equipment should be designed to include such functionalities.
in writing. - i vote for it. while recognising that there are no signs of recovery in social indicators in some member states and no sustainable signs yet in economic indicators, the report also recognises that, in terms of its objectives, strategic investment in measures with european added value should be strengthened to help put the european economy back on track, generating sustainable growth and jobs, while seeking to boost competitiveness and increase economic and social cohesion across the eu.
in writing. - the invasion of the crimea region by russia is a violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, contrary to international law and violates russia's obligations as a signatory of the budapest memorandum on security assurances for ukraine, in which it committed itself to ensuring respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine. it is important to resolve the crisis immediately by peaceful means.
in writing. - ukraine is in chaos, with a total absence of public order and the collapse of the security system, with the armed groups of the extreme right, nationalists and fascists in power, the result of a coup d'état carried out by the most reactionary sectors of the ukrainian oligarchy. responsible for the repressive activities of the so-called 'government of the donetsk people's republic'. these are the allies that the majority of the ep welcomes and wants to sign a free trade agreement and a capital injection package that will further destroy the economy and the lives of ukrainians. this support is given to the power installed in kiev by the eu, the us and nato, powers that from the first moment promoted interference and fueled the destabilization of the country (including financially) to ensure its dominance, advancing with a strategy of provocation and encirclement to russia. these, who yesterday in ukraine, but also in yugoslavia, iraq, afghanistan, syria and libya, grossly violated what today they hypocritically call the violation of international law and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the resolution adopted today on russia's invasion of ukraine for three fundamental reasons: (a) of course, because i find the title of this resolution unacceptable. the concept of invasion means that we are facing an act of war, in the light of international law, with all the inherent consequences. the ep should not use language which only serves to increase tension and encourage the most radical positions. (b) secondly, the ec has not yet explained how it intends to finance, in the current budgetary constraint, the €11 billion aid package it has announced for ukraine. the ep cannot support this aid without first knowing whether the eu is actually in a position to guarantee it, otherwise misunderstandings and then resentment will arise. (c) finally, despite the urgency of aid to ukraine, the eu should only conclude final agreements with an elected ukrainian government. in addition to encouraging the holding of free and democratic elections, it would also ensure the proper use of aid and the fulfilment of commitments by the ukrainian side on the essential reforms there.
in the light of the recent events in the crimea, the european union must take action to prevent the annexation of crimea by russia. the deployment of russian troops in the black sea and the holding of a referendum, which is considered illegal by the international community and the multilateral institutions, give us the impression that russia will not yield to the first sanctions imposed by the european union. on the other hand, the climate of oppression in crimea explains the issues that will be put to the referendum: to be part of russia now or in the future. the autonomous government of crimea does not give the ukrainian population a chance to maintain the status quo. beyond a clear violation of ukrainian sovereignty, the russian authorities' justifications give us no guarantee that they will not take the same measures in the western part of ukraine that holds a majority russian population. the european union's soft power is being tested by its russian neighbour. the union must not allow this unilateral russian action, which is against the sovereignty of other sovereign states, to continue. let's not let the 2008 georgia case happen.
in the case of the soviet union, the situation is not so bad, but it is not good enough to have a government that is not in a position to take action. forces that have used blackmail, intimidation, violence, occupation of communist party of ukraine buildings (including its central headquarters in kiev) and theft of property, including media, and have obstructed and even attempted to outlaw its political activity. these are the allies with whom the majority of the ep wants to sign a free trade agreement and a capital injection package that will further destroy the economy and the lives of ukrainians. the power installed in kiev is supported by the eu, the us and nato, powers that from the very beginning promoted interference and incited the destabilization of the country (including financially) to ensure its dominance, while advancing its strategy of provocation and encirclement of russia. those who today hypocritically invoke the violation of international law and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine are the same people who yesterday grossly violated them in ukraine, but also in yugoslavia, iraq, afghanistan, syria and libya. it's a little hypocritical.
in writing. - i vote for it. this is an important report in that it deals with one of the most important texts governing the functioning of the eu. this report approves an important fact for the future of the eu and its legitimacy before the citizens - the next european elections will be the first we have since the treaty of lisbon, which introduces the principle that the outcome of the european elections must be taken into account in the choice of the president of the european commission and the composition of the commission itself. we therefore have a great opportunity to make a strong contribution to the forthcoming elections by bringing the citizens of the union closer together, by involving them and making them feel more involved in the process and destiny of a united europe.
in writing. - based on one of the basic principles of law that laws are made to be enforced, i see this initiative of paulo rangel with good eyes. the treaty of lisbon exists and must be respected by all the bodies it covers. the proper application of the lisbon treaty is synonymous with its proper functioning.
in writing. - the purpose of this document is to assess the application of the treaty of lisbon by analysing the implications of the main changes introduced by it in the interinstitutional relations between the european parliament and the european commission. given that the lisbon treaty seeks to strengthen the democratic dimension of the eu, i voted in favour of the document as i also support the need for a more direct link between the choice of the electorate and the election of the president of the commission.
in writing. - this report has three main aspects: 1) land rights, including property rights and wealth creation. indeed, registered property rights and secure land rights foster economic growth, provided that land can be used as collateral and increase access to capital, thereby stimulating productivity and investment and at the same time also promoting social cohesion and peace. 2) roadmap for the security of land rights, including property rights, and sustainable land governance in developing countries: land reforms require a degree of flexibility that is consistent with local, social and cultural conditions, exemplified by traditional forms of tribal ownership, and should focus on empowering the most vulnerable. put land rights, including property rights, at the heart of eu development policy. in this respect, it should be noted that large-scale land acquisition processes are, among other things, a direct consequence of poor land governance in developing countries. these are principles and concerns with which i identify and as such i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - the notion that property rights dramatically affect economic development and reduce poverty is based on the fact that the recognition of property has allowed the transition from a universe of goods in their natural state to the conceptual universe of capital formation, in which goods can realize their full productive potential. the major challenges of the 21st century - food security, energy scarcity, water scarcity, urban and population growth, environmental degradation, climate change, natural disasters and country fragility - are all related to land governance issues, which reinforces the need to prioritise the implementation of comprehensive land reform.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document which looks at promoting sustainable development in developing countries with a focus on property rights. i voted in favour of the document because i thought it was important to make individuals responsible for managing their own resources.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that policy coherence for development has become a global policy instrument, since the aim of this instrument is to mitigate the inconsistencies arising from the policies implemented by the eu in order to avoid negative effects on developing countries. i also express my support for the key proposals in this report which relate to the following aspects: an arbitration mechanism, under the responsibility of the president of the european commission, who is responsible for deciding on the basis of the commitments made by the union on cfp (no 1), the important role that the european parliament can play in the process of promoting cfp (no 7), the need to create an independent mechanism within the union that collects and formally analyses complaints from citizens or communities affected by eu policies (no 8). finally, i regret that, in the absence of the communication originally envisaged, the commission has presented a simple working document. this is all the more regrettable since this document has not been rejected by the college of commissioners, despite the fact that it is a proposal of extreme political importance.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's policies are consistent with the international standards. the aim of this instrument is to mitigate inconsistencies arising from the policies implemented by the eu in order to avoid negative effects on developing countries. the key proposals in this report concern the following aspects: (i) an arbitration mechanism, under the responsibility of the president of the european commission, who is responsible for deciding on the basis of the commitments made by the union on dpc; (ii) the important role that the european parliament can play in the process of promoting dpc; and (iii) the need to create an independent mechanism within the union that collects and formally analyses complaints submitted by citizens or communities affected by eu policies.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the united states does not become a party to the gatt negotiations. i voted in favour of this document which provides for an arbitration mechanism, highlights the important role that the european parliament can play and argues for the need to create an independent mechanism within the union to formally collect and analyse complaints.
in writing. - i approve this report and reiterate my strong condemnation of the widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian law by the syrian regime, including all acts of violence, systematic torture and execution of prisoners. i condemn all violations of human rights and international humanitarian law by armed groups opposed to the regime and express my deep concern at the serious consequences for the civilian population of a conflict which has lasted for three years, as well as at the continuing deterioration of the humanitarian situation in the country and the region. i therefore call on all armed actors to put an immediate end to the violence in syria and i fully support the recent negotiations launched on the basis of the geneva communiqué, which should be the first step in a process towards a political and democratic solution to the conflict, in order to facilitate a syrian-led democratic transition that meets the legitimate aspirations of its people.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague, mrs glenis willmott, and the other shadow rapporteurs because i believe that the collaboration on this dossier has been extremely fruitful and has been very frank and honest and has led to a conclusion which i think is a very interesting dossier and which obviously deserves our approval. commissioner borg, i would like to ask you a question, a comment, and i do not know, i can only express myself in my own language, in portuguese it is often said that you finally had the nerve to say some of the things you said here, because you said that european patients, patients and subjects have benefited from this process more than the pharmaceutical industry. yes, that is true, but that is due to the work of the european parliament. the commission's initial proposal, the proposal that came from its office, was a proposal that seemed to be written by the pharmaceutical industry and it was this parliament and these rapporteurs who managed to reverse that proposal, guarantee the role of the ethics committees, guarantee transparency and also guarantee the safety and the rights of the individuals who will be taking part in the studies above all and so it is not about competitiveness, it is about competence.
i would like to say that i regret that no provisions have been adopted to allow comparative clinical trials which would go a long way towards assessing the therapeutic value of new medicines, but nevertheless there have been important innovations. the harmonised authorisation process between member states, which saves red tape, the establishment of a single portal centralising all information between clinical trial promoters and national competent authorities, the differentiation between clinical trials with different levels of risk and the role of ethics committees and the transparency of clinical trial results, which require, under certain conditions, the disclosure of the clinical trial report. i believe that parliament has considerably improved this commission proposal by means of this regulation. i would therefore like to congratulate my fellow rapporteur, mrs glenis willmott.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for this report and also the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. in fact, the work of this parliament has improved very significantly on what was the original proposal. the advantages of the commission proposal in terms of speed of procedures, cost savings and, in general, the creation of conditions which promote scientific research, on these issues enough has already been said. what is also important to stress here is that there was a neglect of ethical requirements which the 2001 directive had put on paper in a very strong way and which we had lost with the commission's proposal. i think that the balance has been restored by the work of parliament and i would like to make a point here that in the future, not only now but in the future, it is always important that we make progress in scientific research, but we must not forget what the ethical safeguards are that also protect the participants in research.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the internet was not the creation of any private company and it is today, as it was in its early days, a public good that is increasingly becoming a good and an essential right. free and non-discriminatory access is a new fundamental right as natural as the right to move freely through the streets and roads that were built centuries ago to bring people together. there are roads and vehicles which, by their characteristics, can allow us to travel at a higher or lower speed, but this speed is never defined in terms of a differentiated payment between normal and premium users of the same road. we cannot therefore tolerate the existence of a business class and an economic class when we travel on the highways of communication. we cannot accept that road owners discriminate against the passage according to the type of cargo we carry. the neutrality of the internet is therefore the condition for this to be as open and neutral a street as any other in our city.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the vote in committee was a strong vote, a vote which included the various political groups in this house, which shows a capacity for compromise which is noteworthy in this matter and for that reason i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs. i would also like to thank pablo, because we have worked together on these two important pieces of legislation. i cannot forget the european commission, through commissioner barnier, and all those who have met with me so many times, who have also met with pablo zalba and the other rapporteurs, so that we can get a good result. i want to thank you all. this is a european citizenship directive. european rules apply to our everyday lives, to acts as simple as making a payment. and this directive accepts the principle of better competition, a positive principle also for small and mediumsized enterprises and consumers. this is a directive to think about trade, to think about payments, but also to think about growth and jobs. the switch from psd1 to psd2 is due to some key objectives. firstly, to accept tpps, which are an innovative way of making payments and which, for that very reason, must also be regulated, within european legislation, and here the concern, which we have repeatedly expressed, had to do with various aspects and, of course, with the security of transactions. accept that these companies that run tpps have a role within the market, but they have it in a secure way. that was a goal for all of us. i think we've made a good move. i would like to stress here the common standards of communication which have been established, or which will be established in the future, as a way of generating security in these same transactions. but there was also an aim to make this directive - which is a very technical directive - simpler if possible in a job of being understandable to european citizens and also for that reason i came up with a simple idea: a charter of the rights of consumers of these payment services. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the principle that has been established here is also the following with regard to the surcharge: the surcharge must be applied to the actual costs of the transaction, it must not exceed them. this was an extremely positive piece of work by parliament, which i hope will be continued under the next presidency, so that we can reach a good final text. the road has already been started, the direction is good, and that is why we must continue the work that was started during this parliamentary term.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was indeed a useful work, a work that was in the european interest and in the interests of the internal market, with better and more effective competition not only between cards but between cards and new forms of payment. a debate on innovation, the supervision needed to defend the interests of consumers and citizens in the field of data protection and, crucially, on creating the conditions for healthier growth, for commercial transactions to be carried out more efficiently and for this to also have an impact on employment within the european union. we often talk about employment in our various countries, but we rarely mention initiatives like this one. i would therefore like to stress at this very moment that we are faced with a situation in which the commission, for the proposal it has put forward, and parliament, for the way it has worked, are to be congratulated. we believe that it will be possible to reach a good agreement and a good solution in the negotiations that will have to be held with the council. we hope they will start as soon as possible. i would like to reiterate that parliament is very much willing to work and to move forward with this dossier. i would like to thank everyone, i would like to thank the commissioner, and i would like to thank in a very special way commissioner barnier, my colleague pablo zalba and all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked on this matter.
as long as the european institutions and the governments of the countries of the european union continue to consider debt restructuring a taboo subject, we continue to be on a path which is different from the consensus that is being created in societies. in portugal, 74 personalities, economists and former members of governments, recently signed a manifesto calling for debt restructuring. they were joined by 74 other nationalities and just this week there were citizens who joined in drawing up a petition calling for debt restructuring in the country, because it is the only way to free up resources to invest in growth and job creation. the european institutions are still blind to these demands, to the consensus of society, they are still hostages of the financial markets, and i ask how much longer will this take? because it's gonna have to be done sooner or later! and it better be early because, in the meantime, there are economies that are being economically and socially devastated.
<speakertype>.
the european external action service and the european commission will certainly be alert to the dire situation in libya, as the high representative has already noted here today. they are, but the truth is that the european union has done little to intervene in a coherent, institutional and operational way in a country that is in our closest neighbourhood, in which a very dangerous dynamic of power vacuum is developing combined with the presence of armed militias, terrorist infiltration, weapons, oil and systematic violation of human rights. libya is today a country at risk of becoming a failed state and of provoking a security and even ecological disaster in the mediterranean. i could also talk about syria, egypt, ukraine, russia, anyway... but libya reflects well the state of our common foreign and security policy, despite the efforts which i acknowledge and which i welcome on the part of the high representative. how can the union claim to be a provider of global security, a force for human rights, the rule of law, democracy and peace in the world if it cannot even contribute in a coherent way to stabilising its neighbourhood? in libya, in relations with other neighbours where there are resources such as oil, unfortunately shortsighted national interests continue to prevail over what our member states are willing to give for european coherence and unity. the libyan people suffer first, but secondly, we all lose, europe and the security of european citizens, because a libya that is unruled at the mercy of terrorist groups will spill over into europe some of its most serious problems, and illegal migration is only one of them. the truth is, we've wasted time and opportunity in libya. an effective contribution to governance capacity is the central issue of security sector reform. it is urgent and it requires commitment, cooperation, coordination and focus from the community hierarchies in brussels but also from our capitals. if we do not continue to throw away the advantages and innovations that the treaty of lisbon has brought to the common foreign and security and defence policy.
despite mrs ashton's efforts to resolve the conflict over iran's nuclear programme, on whose success global and regional security depends, today we still need iran to end the devastating war in syria. but i have also always thought that it is not possible, nor advisable, to negotiate with tehran over its nuclear programme and ignore the serious human rights violations committed by the regime against its own people. in this vein, mrs ashton, on her recent visit to tehran, met with human rights activists, but mismanagement in the media has led to iranian political prisoners now suffering retaliation and even the sakharov prize winner nasrin sotoudeh has been called to the ministry of intelligence. the only way to deny the hardliners in the judiciary and the intelligence services the opportunity to sabotage the opening up that president rouhani has been trying to achieve is for the european union to establish regular channels of communication with the iranian authorities on human rights and on concrete cases of iranian citizens who are victims of repression.
the rapporteur. - i was also going to ask for the vote on the legislative resolution to be postponed as a result of mr zalba's statement.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that the lifelong learning measures promoted by the fund are, in general, perfectly adequate to keep people in the labour market. however, i regret that there is no complete and reliable data, including data disaggregated by gender and age, to assess the effectiveness of fund expenditure, for example on older workers. i believe that the use of the fund's appropriations should be transparent and that when the annual financial charts are drawn up, this information should be made available to citizens in an accessible form on a public website. i welcome the commission's proposal to improve the performance evaluation of operational programmes in the 2014-2020 programming period and the inclusion in the fund regulation of a set of common output and result indicators, such as long-term result indicators.
in writing. - the ageing of the population, changes in working conditions, the incentives for early retirement that still exist, the financial crisis and changes in production patterns, as well as the growing demand for competitiveness, require firm responses to enable older workers to remain active in the labour market, even when they intend to do so beyond retirement age. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution of the european parliament on special report no 25/2012 of the european court of auditors entitled are there instruments to monitor the effectiveness of european social fund expenditure on older workers? in which the european parliament calls on the commission to put more emphasis on the fight against age discrimination of older workers and to use its prerogatives under existing legal instruments to combat flagrant forms of age discrimination in certain member states and sectors of the economy.
in writing. - i approve of the present report, i oppose the attitude of mario borghezio, who, although he was a member of the european parliament at the time of this interview, and whereas, according to information provided by the office of the prosecutor, the statements in question are punishable under articles 81 (1) and 595 (1) of the italian penal code, article 3 (1) of law no 205/1993 and article 3 (1) (a) of law no 654/1975, namely, repeated public defamation and dissemination of discriminatory ideas based on racial superiority or hatred. however, taking into account that if statements such as those made by mario borghezio were made in parliament, they would have given rise to sanctions under rule 153 of the rules of procedure. i believe that parliamentary immunity should not therefore cover such statements when they are made outside parliament and that mario borghezio cannot therefore be regarded as having acted in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has the power to adopt decisions which are binding on the member states. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. mario borghezio's request concerns judicial investigations against him by the office of the prosecutor of the milan court regarding statements he allegedly made in a radio interview in april 2013. according to information provided by the office of the public prosecutor, the statements in question are punishable under articles 81 (1) and 595 (1) of the italian penal code, article 3 (1) of law no 205/1993 and article 3 (1) (a) of law no 654/1975, namely repeated public defamation and dissemination of discriminatory ideas based on racial superiority or hatred. such statements are not in the scope of your activity as a member of the european parliament. i therefore vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mario borghezio.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to lift the parliamentary immunity of mario borghezio, mep, in connection with investigations against him by the milan court. the committee on legal affairs considers that mario borghezio's parliamentary record indicates that he has shown an interest in issues relating to roma, but also considering that the facts in question, as referred to in the information from the office of the prosecutor and in the hearing in the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the statements made in the interview have no direct and obvious connection with these parliamentary activities and that they go beyond the tone that is usually found in political debate and are, moreover, deeply anti-parliamentary in nature, and contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, it is considered that they cannot be considered as having been made in the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament. in these terms, i agree with the decision not to defend mario borghezio's immunity and privileges.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the detention and subsequent death in custody of sergei magnitsky represent a flagrant and serious case of disregard for human rights and fundamental freedoms in russia, and have raised doubts about the independence and impartiality of the judicial institutions. this situation reminds us of the many documented failures to respect the rule of law in that country. furthermore, two independent investigations conducted by the commission for public oversight of the observance of human rights in moscow detention centres and the russian presidential council for the development of civil society and human rights revealed that sergei magnitsky was subjected to inhuman conditions, wilful neglect and torture. finally, taking into account that russia, as a member of various international organisations such as the council of europe, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the united nations, must fulfil its commitments and protect, promote and uphold human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. i would remind you that the european union has repeatedly offered russia additional assistance and technical expertise to help it modernise and respect the legal and constitutional order, in accordance with the council of europe's standards.
in the case of the european union, the european parliament has the right to vote on the proposals for directives. visa restrictions should not be seen as an obstacle to the free movement of persons but as a guarantee for the security of our citizens.
in writing. - i'm in favor of restricting visas to russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case. the eu must be more forceful in the sanctions it imposes on russia when it does not respect international standards. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report in recognition of the significant progress made towards the achievement of the millennium development goals. in particular, the reduction by half of the number of people without sustainable access to improved drinking water sources, the significant reduction in the proportion of people living in urban slums, and the achievement of remarkable achievements in the fight against malaria and tuberculosis. as well as visible improvements in health and access to basic education. it is regrettable that most african countries are far from achieving these goals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i would stress that special attention must be paid to the least developed countries and to countries in conflict or post-conflict situations, given that the absence of peace and security remains one of the main obstacles to sustainable development. i conclude that there is still much to be done, with some 1.5 billion people living in vulnerable countries that have not yet achieved a single millennium development goal.
in the light of the recent developments in the middle east, the european union is now preparing to take action to combat the threat of terrorism and to help the countries of the region to develop their own security and defence systems. the importance of the eu's role in the united nations should continue to be the subject of debate here in the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the present recommendation of the european parliament to the council of 2 april 2014 on the 69th session of the united nations general assembly, in which the european parliament addresses a number of recommendations to the council, including the call for intensified efforts at international level to ensure that all human rights agreed under un conventions are considered universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and are respected, and to promote the integration of human rights and fundamental freedoms issues into all aspects of the work of the un.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the new digital and online communication platforms have contributed to increasing diversity and pluralism, with particular relevance in countries where access to information sources is limited. i believe that european media broadcasting internationally can play an important role in spreading european values such as democracy, media freedom and human rights throughout the world.
- in the information age, the broadcasting media play a very important role in the dissemination of news from all over the world. the eu is the region where press freedom is greatest and this must be preserved if its visibility is to continue to gain strength. however, for this to happen, the eu will have to continue to preserve its fundamental values of freedom, democracy and the defence of human rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the broadcasters are able to transmit their programmes in a free and fair manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service of 2 april 2014 on the role of broadcasters in projecting the eu and its values, in which i highlight the proposal to launch a process of reflection at european union level with the aim of establishing a european radio service at world level.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that parliament and the council have agreed on a set of limit values for vehicle categories m1 to m3 (vehicles used for the carriage of passengers) and n1 to n3 (vehicles used for the carriage of goods), over three phases, starting with the first phase on 1 january 2017. this will result, for example, in a reduction over time up to the limit value of 68 db for vehicles used for passenger transport. i also take note of the fact that parliament also attaches great importance to the issues of paving the roads and their contribution to reducing the noise level of vehicles. the parliament and the council decided that the commission should develop guidelines for information on best practices in the technological development of road network quality and road classification, based on information provided by the member states. that is why a wording to that effect has been inserted in the recitals to the proposal.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the european union therefore considered it necessary to harmonize existing national legislation aimed at limiting the impact of noise on the health of its population and the protection of the environment. however, this subject has raised a number of questions and has highlighted the many differences between member states, particularly with regard to the large-scale production of cars and the technology used for this purpose. i therefore hope that parliament and the council will soon be able to reach agreement on such an important subject which can have a great impact on future generations.
in writing. - the present proposal aims to protect public health and the environment by means of measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. we must continue to reduce the noise levels of motor vehicles to maintain a good level of public health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament of 2 april 2014 on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the sound level of motor vehicles and on replacement silent systems, amending previous resolutions on the subject. on a second reading, parliament and the council agreed on a set of limit values for vehicle categories m1 to m3 (vehicles used for the carriage of passengers) and n1 to n3 (vehicles used for the carriage of goods) over three phases, the first phase starting on 1 january 2017. this will result, for example, in a reduction over time up to the limit value of 68 db for vehicles used for passenger transport.
in writing. - i approve this report in the light of the application of the regulation establishing a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals and concerning the labelling of beef and beef products. member states have set up computerised databases containing information on bovine animals on their territory. to date, these databases have not taken into account the emergence of electronic identification technology for bovine animals. since the ongoing revision of the regulation promotes a harmonised and progressive development of this new technology, it is also appropriate to adapt the principles of data collection and make them compatible with the two methods of identification of bovine animals. it is therefore necessary to amend directive 64/432/eec accordingly. i support the amendment to the provisions on databases proposed by the commission. as a direct consequence of the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000, this review is necessary and appropriate. however, in addition to the elements proposed by the commission, i suggest that the information requested from farmers on their holdings should be supplemented by the means of identification used, the aim being to obtain an accurate and up-to-date knowledge of the level of use of the two means of identification of bovine animals available.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the safety of the community's railways is not compromised. it is through them that suspects of terrorism or crimes in the european area can be identified. sharing databases between member states can greatly help in this prevention. i think it's a common benefit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on computerised databases which are part of the surveillance networks in the member states and which establishes a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals, concerning the labelling of beef and beef products. member states have set up computerised databases containing information on bovine animals present on their territory. to date, these databases have not taken into account the emergence of electronic identification technology for bovine animals. since the ongoing review of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 promotes a harmonised and progressive development of this new technology, it is also appropriate to adapt the principles of data collection and make them compatible with the two methods of identification of bovine animals. it is therefore necessary to amend this directive 64/432/eec accordingly.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european union does not currently have a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the world trade organisation and other international trade agreements. in a global context of increasing retaliatory measures, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to enforce the european union's trade rights and to consolidate the credibility of the european union. and ultimately it serves to convince our trading partners to play by the rules laid down in trade agreements. this proposal is also an integral part of the strategy of opening up new markets for the european union and aligns the decision-making procedures with the lisbon treaty. i believe that this new instrument should also be considered within the framework of the rules for the settlement of multilateral (wto), regional and bilateral disputes, which already provide for the right of the complaining country to adopt the last resort, i.e. a temporary defensive retaliatory measure against the infringing country when it fails to apply the rules established by a dispute settlement body.
in writing. - in recent years, with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the need has arisen to review the rules on the application and enforcement of international trade rules, in particular the need to give the european union the power to implement these rules. i therefore welcome the decision to set up a simple mechanism to ensure that european interests are protected quickly and effectively.
in writing. - the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in a global context of increasing retaliation, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to enforce the eu's trade rights, to build the eu's credibility and ultimately to convince our trading partners to play by the rules of the game as laid down in trade agreements. this proposal is also an integral part of the strategy of opening up new markets for the eu and aligns the decision-making procedures with the lisbon treaty. this proposal is very important in alerting our trading partners to the importance of complying with the rules governing world trade relations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 2 april 2014 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of the union's rights to implement and enforce international trade rules. the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in a global context of increasing retaliation, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to enforce the eu's trade rights, to build the eu's credibility and ultimately to convince our trading partners to play by the rules of the game as laid down in trade agreements. this proposal is also an integral part of the strategy of opening up new markets for the eu and aligns the decision-making procedures with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i approve the present report, considering that the purpose of the commission proposal is to bring the regulation on imports of rice originating in bangladesh into line with the post-lisbon regime of implementing and delegated acts introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for the sake of clarity, the commission proposes to repeal regulation (eec) no 3491/90 and replace it with a new regulation, which is supported by the rapporteur in this report. i also take note that the limited transitional quotas or restrictions for rice and sugar have been progressively extended on an annual basis since 2001 and expired on 31 august 2009 and 30 september 2009 respectively. imports of rice and sugar originating in the ldcs are now fully liberalized. since 1 october 2009, the mfn regulation grants completely duty-free and quota-free market access to all products from the ldcs, with the exception of imports of arms and ammunition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament of 2 april 2014 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on imports of rice originating in bangladesh, the purpose of which is to align the previous regulation on imports of rice originating in bangladesh with the post-lisbon regime of implementing and delegated acts introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for the sake of clarity, the commission proposes to repeal regulation (eec) no 3491/90 and replace it with a new regulation, which is supported by the rapporteur of this report and by me.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that medical devices which present greater potential risks to the health of patients should be subject to a more rigorous procedure than conformity assessment. this category should include medical devices listed in class iii, those which are implanted in the body, incorporate a substance considered to be a medicinal product, are intended to administer a medicinal product or use non-viable tissues or cells of human or animal origin, and their derivatives. as regards these devices, i am in favour of introducing a new marketing authorization procedure at a centralised level for innovative devices and at a decentralised level for the other devices mentioned above. i therefore support the creation of a committee on the authorisation of medical devices within the european medicines agency, which will be involved in the centralised procedure.
in writing. - given the need to minimise the different interpretations given by member states to the previous directive on this matter, the european union decided to review these same rules and transform them into a regulation, in order to ensure a european level of public health and safety. i would therefore like to congratulate the epp group and the committee on the environment on all the work they have done on this matter.
in writing. - i know . medical devices such as breast implants, pacemakers and hip replacements should be subject to a stricter safety assessment across the eu, as agreed in this report. the proposed standards also aim to improve traceability to allow, for example, a rapid withdrawal of devices from the european market. medical devices cover a wide range of products, from household items such as quick-fix bandages, contact lenses, to dental fillings, x-ray machines, pacemakers, breast implants, hip replacements, etc. there are thousands of different types of devices on the market classified into different risk categories. recent events, such as the scandal over fraudulent silicone breast implants and the problems caused by certain metal-on-metal hip replacements, have brought these issues to the public's attention. these new rules are intended to strengthen the safety controls on medical devices, ensuring better traceability of medical devices and strengthening the supervision of certification bodies by national authorities with a view to ensuring patient safety. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - medical devices are defined in this regulation as any instrument, apparatus, equipment, machine, implant or software designed for the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring or treatment of disease, ranging from simple ligatures to the most complex life support instruments or implants of various kinds. the proposal for a regulation, which amends the directive and the previous regulations, aims not only to increase the transparency of procedures but also to take account of the safety of practitioners and patients, quality and environmental concerns, and to improve access to information for patients and practitioners, with guarantees of confidentiality. it also aims to improve controls on notified, subcontracted and subsidised bodies, to lay down requirements for internal staff of national authorities and notified bodies and to tighten rules for devices which can be reprocessed. following serious problems with silicone breast implants and metal hip implants, the scope of the proposal has been extended to include medical devices for aesthetic purposes, and traceability has to be ensured to allow, for example, rapid withdrawal of devices from the market. although it could have gone further, positive steps are taken in the face of an unacceptable and dangerous situation. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the link between safe and high quality medical devices and the general objective of ensuring the health and safety of users, patients and third parties, allows for synergies between the proposed regulation and the applicable community legislation on health and safety at work. this regulation should therefore contain explicit references to legislation establishing high levels of safety for users and patients in the context of healthcare and take into account the design and performance characteristics of medical devices referred to in the relevant union directives on health and safety at work. it is therefore entirely logical that such a provision should be recognised in the general safety and performance requirements for devices of the medical device regulation. i believe that health institutions must ensure that staff are trained in the correct use of medical devices, instruments and practices that help reduce needle injury, transmission of associated infections and other adverse effects, in order to ensure the effective and safe use of new medical technologies and surgical techniques.
in writing. - this report aims to approve new rules on in vitro diagnostic devices used in pregnancy, dna or hiv tests. in vitro diagnostic medical devices cover a wide range of products such as pregnancy tests, hiv screening tests, dna tests, etc. there are thousands of different devices with different risk categories. the rules adopted today are designed to ensure patient safety. new rules on patient consent to the use of a device for genetic testing purposes were introduced and the setting up of an ethics committee was advised. the rules adopted today are designed to ensure patient safety. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that in april 2010 the european commission presented, for the first time, a proposal for a regulation on the economic accounts of the environment of the european union. following the entry into force of the regulation, eurostat and the member states started pilot tests. i welcome the commission's proposal and believe that the new accounts will help to develop more coherent indicators for better public debate and more effective policy making. due to the financial and human resource constraints currently faced by the national statistical institutes, more attention should be paid to improving quality and to strengthening the use of existing modules and those presented by the commission in its current proposal. it is important that national administrative burdens are kept to the necessary level.
- the data on the environment are very relevant from the point of view of analysing the environmental situation throughout the eu. as i have always argued on these issues, preserving the environment is important for the abundance of resources for future generations. i welcome the improved handling of environmental statistics.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament of 2 april 2014 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on european environmental economic accounts and in which parliament encourages a wider use of data from environmental accounting by the european commission and national administrations to develop specific policies that contribute to the union's policy priorities on green growth and resource efficiency.
in writing. - i know . the development and availability of accurate indicators and descriptive statistics to monitor the evolution of economic and environmental factors and their possible interactions is undoubtedly a useful tool to support strategic planning, the definition of public policies and sustainable development pathways. according to the european commission, most of the necessary statistical data are already available, but they need to be adjusted to have a scientifically sound approach and to ensure european and international comparability. the new models will allow the extension of the available and integrated databases for applications, analyses and better policies in the field of environment and energy. the data obtained can and should contribute to policy evaluation by allowing the environmental impact of economic activities to be measured. three new accounts were proposed and added. environmental protection expenditure accounts, i.e. the national economic resources devoted per resident unit to environmental protection, the quantity of environmental products and services that are created in industry, are also proposed energy flow accounts, energy inputs, energy products and energy waste during production, consumption and accumulation measured in terajoules per inhabitant
in writing. - i approve this report in the hope that a general mobilisation of all development actors will be part of a broad movement to raise awareness among european public opinion of the european union's external action in developing countries. the committee on development of the european parliament is aware that a debate on the poor in the rest of the world cannot ignore the more than 100 million poor people living in the european union. the aim is not to ignore the poor living in the union or to set them against the disadvantaged people in other regions. on the other hand, the fundamental european values are sufficiently rooted both in the provisions on citizenship and in those governing the union's external action. i am in favour of the idea that living five thousand kilometres from the territory of the european union is no reason to lose the right to respect for human dignity. the year 2015 will be a good opportunity to remind us that this right does not depend on a person's place of residence or his or her heritage, but that human dignity is a right for everyone and a basic principle of any european policy.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the community's economy. the coherence of this question is extremely relevant so that in the end we can look back and see that the mission has been accomplished. however, we must not forget to look at the eu itself. there are poor, underdeveloped regions at risk of population desertification. the aid for territorial cohesion must always be geared to the european area and to the idea of a united europe. there can be no imbalances between regions.
in writing. - this legislative initiative, the subject of this report, is the result of a campaign involving representatives of the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, concord (the european confederation of emergency and development ngos) and the european parliament. the round table organised for this purpose at the 2012 european development days allowed the idea to be disseminated to a wider audience. the european parliament then voted on an amendment calling on the commission to declare 2015 the european year for development. the present legislative proposal is therefore the result of a major awareness-raising exercise. in this context, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council declaring 2015 the european year of development, regretting that a political majority had not been achieved for a european year against food waste.
in writing. - i approve this report as it aims to contribute to the development of an independent european space surveillance and tracking capability to prevent and monitor the increasing risk of collision between infrastructure, vehicles or space debris. the need for such a service is shared at national and international level, both by public authorities and by industry as a whole, which depends on space infrastructures. this service is also particularly relevant to ensure the long-term availability of european space resources, in particular the galileo and copernicus satellites. this is the first attempt of its kind at union level and the commission proposes that it starts by pooling the resources and expertise available at member state level and by providing services to users. i am in favour of taking esa's expertise into account by concluding an agreement between the european space agency and the contributing member states.
in the light of the above, the commission will propose to the council that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european space agency. all member states with their own sensors will contribute to this programme, which will be led by the eu and not by the european space agency because of its size and importance. the sst programme will be funded under the copernicus and galileo programmes as well as the horizon 2020 programme until the multiannual financial framework is finally adopted and sst becomes self-funding.
in writing. - in its communication of 4 april 2011 entitled 'towards a space strategy for the european union serving the citizen', the commission underlined that the shared competence in the field of space conferred on the union by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) is linked to a strengthened partnership with the member states. the commission also stressed that all new actions should be based on existing resources and on the joint identification of needs for new resources. i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme to support surveillance and tracking in space which, among other measures, calls for the reduction of risks associated with the launch of european spacecraft, the promotion of the control of uncontrolled re-entries of spacecraft or space debris into the earth's atmosphere, and the creation of more accurate and effective early warnings, with the aim of reducing potential risks to the safety of union citizens and mitigating potential damage to ground infrastructure, while seeking to prevent the proliferation of space debris.
in writing. - over nearly 50 years of space activity, more than 4900 launches have put more than 6500 satellites into orbit, of which about half are still there, but only about 1000 satellites are operational and the rest are considered debris. the support framework for space object surveillance and tracking (sst) is designed with the overall objective of contributing to ensuring the long-term availability of european and national space infrastructures, assets and services that are essential for the protection and security of europe's economies, societies and citizens. the sst aims to assess and reduce collision-related risks for spacecraft operations in orbit, as well as to reduce risks related to the launch of european spacecraft, to monitor their uncontrolled re-entries or space debris into the earth's atmosphere, to enable more accurate and effective early warnings and to prevent the proliferation of space debris. the actions under the sst are intended to build capacity at european level for the establishment and operation of a network of ground and/or space sensors of the member states for the monitoring and tracking of space objects and to constitute a database of such sensors.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that in the current financial framework the budget lines for food security have followed the same position as that established in the framework of the common agricultural policy. however, the new structure of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 provides for a transfer of appropriations from the food security budget lines. this transfer of appropriations for the 2014-2020 programming period entails a significant risk of a budget deficit in the event of a large-scale animal disease outbreak. if such an epidemic were to occur, the union would need to be able to mobilise additional appropriations in a short space of time to finance emergency veterinary or phytosanitary measures in order to avoid losses and further risks to human health. on the other hand, we must find a way of increasing the budget for food security, for example in the event of large-scale agricultural crises. unfortunately, since the overall allocation for the 2014-2020 european union budget is limited, it is not easy to identify other funds that could be used in such cases.
the food sector is extremely important in european policies. the quality to be preserved, the information on the origin of the product, and the harvesting/slaying processes should remain priorities for a more transparent market. this is what distinguishes european products from those of the rest of the world and here the eu gains a competitive edge in what it produces.
in writing. - i know . this regulation is part of the legislative package entitled 'better regulation for safer food', which consists of four sectoral pieces of legislation on animal health, plant health, plant reproductive material and official controls, and a horizontal regulation, which brings together the financial provisions: the regulation on the management of expenditure. the regulation on expenditure management aims to simplify the legislative framework on food supply chain security. the new regulation will repeal and amend 11 previous acts and, in general terms, take up and consolidate existing provisions in a single text. however, some possible funding in the past is forgotten and it is appropriate to allow new expenditure corresponding to the new food safety policy guidelines to be covered. it therefore appears desirable to include the costs relating, in particular, to the slaughter of animals, losses due to emergency vaccination, the possible reinforcement of the current measures, the processing and disposal of carcasses, the economic loss resulting from the measures ordered in the framework of plant protection and the lost value of the destroyed plants. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, which is aimed precisely at achieving the objectives set out above.
in writing. - the regulation provides for the targets for expenditure relating to the food chain, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant reproductive material, with a total maximum amount of eur 1891.936 million, broken down by sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' and to extend the scope of the term 'competition' to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the result of the trilogue improves the regulation by rejecting the amendments proposed by the ep, some of which were interfering with national legislation, others could provide for the allocation of support to the poorest regions of the richest countries, which would mean taking support from the poorest countries (with limited financial volume). the commission also rejected the idea of performance-based evaluation, which could create greater difficulties in weaker member states, and the idea of support in justified cases, whereby the only ones who could justify themselves would be large producers.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the proposal adopted by the commission does not seek to amend the essential elements of the flegt licensing scheme, but rather to align the provisions on comitology of council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. the amending regulation now proposed gives the commission the power to adopt both implementing and delegated acts. in my view, the new article on the exercise of the delegation proposed by the commission requires two amendments reflecting the conclusions of the trilogue negotiations on the omnibus i and ii files, which aim to align a large volume of legislation in the area of the common commercial policy with articles 290 and 291 tfeu. the first amendment aims to ensure that the delegation of power is not conferred for an unlimited period, but is limited to five years, which may be extended by an equal period. in other words, it aims to extend the european parliament's monitoring period from four months (2+2) to six months (2+4). this extension is justified in that three areas covered by the delegation involve political consideration.
in writing. - council regulation no 2173/2005 establishes a licensing scheme for forest law enforcement, governance and trade, known as flegt. this scheme aims to tackle the problem of illegal logging and related trade. it applies to certain wood products from partner countries, i.e. countries that have concluded voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with the eu. in view of these parameters, it provides that only timber products legally produced in accordance with the national legislation of the said partner countries may be imported into the eu. the import of certain timber products from partner countries without a flegt import certificate is prohibited. six countries are developing the systems agreed under a vpa and six others are currently negotiating agreements of the same nature with the eu. i voted in favour of this proposal which does not seek to change the essential elements of the flegt licensing scheme but rather to align the comitology provisions of council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. the amending regulation now proposed gives the commission the power to adopt both implementing and delegated acts.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that there is broad agreement among all the parties concerned that the current legislation on clinical trials needs urgent revision. there has been a sharp decline in the number of clinical trials conducted in europe in recent years, which is at least partly due to some measures in the clinical trials directive. in addition to the serious economic consequences, this also impedes the progress of medicine to the detriment of patients. europe must be competitive and an attractive place for pharmaceutical companies to develop research, while fostering academic research and encouraging research into medicines for rare diseases. at the same time, europe must be a world leader in patient safety and transparency, in the interests of public trust and scientific rigor. one of the main problems with the current directive is precisely its legal form, i.e. the fact that it is a directive, and a different approach is needed to allow for better results in overall terms.
in writing. - this directive concerns the rules to be applied to all clinical trials for human use conducted in the european union. there are several principles listed which must always be followed without exception for the approval of a clinical trial. the need for approval by an ethics committee is a sine qua non requirement, and participation by risk groups such as pregnant women will be subject to stricter rules. i would therefore like to congratulate all the work that has been done to define strict european rules and parameters in this area.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the director of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning by welcoming the commission's proposal to strengthen the current regulatory framework for nuclear safety in the union. i would particularly stress the importance of preventing incidents and accidents and of responding effectively in both scenarios. accident preparedness and coordination in the event of an accident should be at the heart of nuclear safety. in the context of definitions, i suggest that they be aligned as much as possible with the terminology used by the international atomic energy agency, so that they are consistent with the standards and procedures defined at world level. i also support the provisions for periodic self-evaluations accompanied by peer evaluations, as well as peer evaluations of certain topics every six years. i also suggest that the topic, which is the subject of the first peer review of certain topics, be decided no later than three years after the entry into force of the directive.
in writing. - the safety of nuclear installations is a matter of high importance for the whole eu. we all know the deterrent power that exists around the nuclear issue. all the means at our disposal must be used to ensure the safety of community installations. the eu must also ensure that nuclear installations are safe in the context of its neighbourhood policy, thereby avoiding the imminence of tragedies or the misuse of nuclear material.
in writing. - the directive establishing a community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations has entered into force with the aim of initiating the process of creating a common eu framework for nuclear safety. this directive aims to maintain and promote continuous improvement in nuclear safety and, in this context, member states should establish appropriate provisions at national level. the directive covers aspects ranging from provisions on the establishment of national legislative and regulatory frameworks in the field of nuclear safety of nuclear installations to the organisation, duties and responsibilities of the competent regulatory authorities, licensees, education and training of staff, information to the public, and the requirement for the functional separation of the competent regulatory authorities from any other body or organisation related to the promotion or use of nuclear energy. in this context, i voted in favour of this instrument which also provides for self-evaluations by member states at ten-yearly intervals, accompanied by a peer evaluation of their relevant segments, the results of which are to be communicated to the member states and the european commission.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is not compromised. in 2009, the directive establishing a community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations entered into force with the aim of initiating the establishment of a common eu framework in this field. this directive covers aspects of the establishment of national legislative and regulatory frameworks in the field of nuclear safety of nuclear installations, including the organisation of the duties and responsibilities of the competent regulatory authorities, of licence holders, of the education and training of personnel, of information to the public, and of the requirement for the functional separation of the competent regulatory authorities from any other body or organisation related to the promotion or use of nuclear energy. in accordance with the guidelines of the euratom treaty, this process has reduced the powers of the member states to those of the european commission, a course which, in the light of legitimate concerns for security, serves only the interests of the multinational companies in the sector, putting at risk the access of the population to safe and affordable energy, as well as the safety of workers and the population itself.
in writing. - i approve of this report by stating first of all that, in addition to amending articles 1 and 4 of the dsma, i am in favour of strengthening the definition of parent company so that a further extension of the deadline and the minimum share capital that a parent company must hold in another member state will prevent multinational companies from unlawfully benefiting and distorting competition. it is extremely important that the european union takes the lead in ensuring that multinational companies start contributing proportionately to tax systems. systems must be put in place to combat aggressive, complicated, unfair and unprincipled tax evasion schemes by multinational companies whose sole purpose is to avoid paying their fair share of taxes at a time of european crisis when taxpayers across europe have been pressured to contribute their fair share.
in writing. - as part of the eu's efforts to close the current fiscal gaps resulting from the exploitation of differences between national tax systems, double taxation, and under-taxation, this legislation is intended to contribute to a tax regime with more significant revenues and which fosters fair competition between companies. for reasons of fairness and transparency, as well as economic efficiency, the eu is making every effort to ensure the greatest possible harmonisation of taxation in the community area. the current proposal aims to tackle disparities in the operation and taxation of hybrid financial instruments and introduces a general anti-abuse rule. the rapporteur also proposes to strengthen the definition of a parent company so that multinational companies do not unlawfully benefit from differences in tax legislation and are not able to distort competition. it also seeks to put an end to fiscal dumping and to promote greater fiscal harmonization in the single market. with the erosion of taxable matter taking centre stage in the eu, it is of the utmost importance to ensure that multinational companies contribute fairly to tax systems at a time when taxpayers across europe are pressured to contribute their fair share.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the taxation of capital is not distorted. in 2013, the european parliament invited the european commission to address the issue of differences between the different tax systems of the member states and to submit a proposal for a revision of the current directive in order to review the anti-abuse clauses and eliminate the double non-taxation facilitated by hybrid financial instruments in the eu. the rapporteur's work on this subject should therefore be commended.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the kekuš report, which supports the commission's initiative on the revision of the parent and affiliated companies directive (pad), because it strengthens the mechanisms against the abuse of tax differences between the different member states. the fight against tax evasion is of course essential to the functioning of the single market, which cannot allow for any form of unfair competition between firms. moreover, at a time when european citizens and businesses are required to make a significant fiscal effort, it is up to the union to contribute to the consolidation of the tax base of tax systems by requiring multinational economic operators to actually pay the taxes due. only at union level can the values of tax fairness and competition be defended and phenomena such as tax dumping between member states or the exploitation of situations of non-taxation which result in a significant reduction in the revenues of states at the time when they need it most be effectively combated. it is only regrettable that the union continues to accept national tax competition in corporate income tax, which is flagrantly contrary to the logic of the internal market and the general conditions of competition.
in writing. - as part of the eu's efforts to close the current fiscal gaps resulting from the exploitation of differences between national tax systems, double taxation, and under-taxation, this legislation is intended to contribute to a tax regime with more significant revenues and which fosters fair competition between companies. for reasons of fairness and transparency, as well as economic efficiency, the eu is making every effort to ensure the greatest possible harmonisation of taxation in the community area. the current proposal aims to tackle disparities in the operation and taxation of hybrid financial instruments and introduces a general anti-abuse rule. the rapporteur also proposes to strengthen the definition of a parent company so that multinational companies do not unlawfully benefit from differences in tax legislation and are not able to distort competition. it also seeks to put an end to fiscal dumping and to promote greater fiscal harmonization in the single market. with the erosion of taxable matter taking centre stage in the eu, it is of the utmost importance to ensure that multinational companies contribute fairly to tax systems at a time when taxpayers across europe are pressured to contribute their fair share. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by pointing out that the treaty on european union places human rights, democracy and the rule of law at the heart of the union's internal and external policies. i therefore believe that the respect, protection and promotion of these values must be strengthened in a coherent way to ensure the credibility of the european union at world level. i therefore regret the commission's continued refusal to draw up a human rights action plan to promote the union's values in the external dimension of the policies of freedom, security and justice, as requested by the council in the stockholm programme, welcoming the european union strategic framework for human rights and the action plan. this framework should focus on combating trafficking in human beings, reaffirming human rights, especially for women, and on issues of statelessness and the arbitrary detention of migrants in relation to third countries. however, i note that the strategic framework and the accompanying action plan are not a substitute for a human rights action plan.
in writing. - i regard the stockholm programme as one of the most ambitious and necessary in the whole union. citizens' interests such as justice, the rule of law, security and freedom are of paramount importance in areas such as european culture. so its revision is important from a practical point of view.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the present resolution of the european parliament on the mid-term review of the stockholm programme, which welcomes the adoption of the directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, which takes particular account of the protection of disadvantaged groups such as women and children, and which highlights the frequent victimisation of these groups by all forms of violence, including domestic violence.
in writing. - this report supports the european political parties, supports the internal security strategy, eurosur and the reinforcement of the role of frontex, instruments whose aim is to further attack the freedom, rights and guarantees of citizens and to criminalize and repress immigrants. the revision of the stockholm programme advocated by the majority of the ep does not say a word about the consequences of the measures imposed by the troika on individual and collective freedoms. it advocates strengthening the common immigration policy and imposing exploitation as the rule, insisting on criminalisation and the classification of immigrants according to a scale of need, i.e. only according to the interests of exploiting their labour force. this report underlines the eu's deep responsibilities for the conflict, hunger, unemployment and lack of basic human rights that migrants face in their countries of origin, notably through its policies of domination of natural resources and control over markets. the report contains some points with which we agree, particularly on women's rights and equality, and the strengthening of the fight against racism and xenophobia. we voted against it, though.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that updates to the annexes to the dual use regulation (ec) no 428/2009, which contain lists of controlled products and destinations, are currently carried out through an ordinary legislative procedure. i believe that this proposal for post-lisbon alignment simplifies the procedures of the european union export control regime by introducing delegated acts for regular updates of annex i and amendments to annex ii. i therefore recommend that the council's position at first reading be adopted without amendment. i share the view of the joint statement of the three institutions, in the light of the commission's statements on delegated acts and the reform of the strategic export control regime. the three declarations shall be published together with the final legislative act.
in writing. - exports are the starting point for eu economies, especially those under external intervention, to recover their economies and create jobs. further regulation of this system makes much of this recovery difficult, but so does the trade that member states have been developing with new markets.
in writing. - updates of the annexes to the dual-use regulation, which contain lists of controlled products and destinations, are currently carried out through an ordinary legislative procedure. this proposal for post-lisbon alignment aims to simplify the procedures of the eu export control regime by introducing delegated acts for regular updates of annex i and amendments to annex ii. the final text of the negotiations was approved by an overwhelming majority of the members of the committee on international trade on 21 january 2014 and, after final legal and linguistic verification, the council adopted its first reading position confirming the agreement on 3 march 2014. in this context, i voted in favour of the proposal without amendments for the council's position at first reading and the joint declaration of the three institutions, taking into account the commission's statements on delegated acts and the reform of the strategic export control system.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly. the international civil aviation organization (icao) predicts that emissions will accumulate to 1900 mt by 2040. other estimates predict 3,500 to 4,500 mt by 2050. 3.5 gigatons is 20 percent of the amount of global emissions that need to be limited according to the ipcc in 2050 to contain climate change. although the kyoto protocol is not enough on its own to curb the effects of climate change, at least on the part of the european union, it has had some effect in limiting emissions. furthermore, no significant action has been taken on aviation emissions. i believe that the aviation industry needs to be involved in the challenge of minimising climate change. it is important to take account of the particular situation of island and outermost regions, for which air transport is sometimes the only viable means of transport. restricting or penalizing air transport in this case may worsen the economic and social situation of these regions, which are already structurally vulnerable by their nature.
in writing. - the issue of greenhouse gas emissions is damaging to all of us. however, the eu cannot be the only actor in the international system seeking to conclude and enforce agreements to this end. i think it is essential that we try to reach agreements, the eu is known for its environmental policy, so it must play a more active role in this area in order to be able to conclude an agreement that is worthy of being honoured.
in writing. - i could not vote for the liese report on greenhouse gas emission allowances for commercial aviation, because flights originating or destined outside the union are exempt, which will benefit all international flights outside the eu, which are exempt from paying. this is an unenlightening concession to the major air powers (the usa, china, russia, etc.) and an exception that is not consistent with the union's policy on combating climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not left behind. but the solution will not come from integrating more sectors, notably aviation, into market-based regimes which experience has shown are no longer a solution. the sdr is one example of the unequivocal failure of market instruments. we advocate replacing a market approach with a normative and regulatory approach, in a framework for reducing emissions that does not depend on or feed into financial speculation. the issue of greenhouse gas emission allowances and the trading of pollution allowances only serve the large polluters with the capacity to buy the allowances. in addition, smaller airlines such as tap will be the most affected by the inclusion of aviation emissions in the global market. here it is once again demonstrated that the eu's so-called environmental policies do not include a genuine concern for the environment and the future of the planet, being only a pretext for generating profits.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that several member states have already completed or are in the process of drawing up legislation to regulate swap bodies. these cover a number of issues, including limits on multi-tier interchange fees, merchant service fees, the rule of accepting all cards or consumer guidance measures. the administrative decisions in force in some member states vary significantly. i agree that in order to make the levels of exchange boards more consistent, regulatory measures should be introduced at national level to address the issue of the level of exchange boards or the differences between them. in my view, these national measures are likely to create significant barriers to the full completion of the internal market in the area of card, internet and mobile payments associated with cards, and would therefore constitute an obstacle to the freedom to provide services.
in writing. - the regulation of interchange fees covers a number of issues, including limits on interchange fees, merchant service fees and the rule of acceptance of all cards. the administrative decisions in force in some member states vary significantly and in this respect it is essential to make this legislation more harmonised so that the interchange fees charged are consistent and the internal market can be fully realised in the area of card, internet and mobile card payments. the legislation introduces caps on interbank fees of 0.2% for debit cards and 0.3% for credit cards and prohibits the application of additional charges on such cards, a common practice in the case of the purchase of airline tickets, for example. retailers will get savings due to paying lower commissions to their banks. these savings should in turn be passed on by traders to consumers through lower retail prices. in this respect, and in view of the advantage of this new legislation for the functioning of payment markets, i support this report.
in writing. - the regulation of interchange fees covers a number of issues, including limits on interchange fees, merchant service fees and the rule of acceptance of all cards. the administrative decisions in force in some member states vary significantly and it is therefore essential to make this legislation more harmonised so that the interchange fees charged are consistent and the internal market can be fully realised in the area of card, internet and mobile payments associated with cards. the legislation introduces caps on interbank fees of 0.2% for debit cards and 0.3% for credit cards and prohibits the application of additional charges on such cards, a common practice in the case of the purchase of airline tickets, for example. retailers will get savings due to paying lower commissions to their banks. these savings should in turn be passed on by traders to consumers through lower retail prices. in this connection, and in view of the advantage of this new legislation for the functioning of payment markets, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that it is desirable to create the appropriate conditions for the development of a card acceptance network in the european union. this is undoubtedly the aim of the proposal for a regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. the adoption of eu-wide limits on interchange fees for national and cross-border transactions is certainly an important step towards improving the functioning of the internal market it also contributes to the principle of free movement of goods, persons, services and capital in the union, with a specific focus on consumers. while i accept the idea of introducing limits on interchange fees as provided for in chapter ii of this regulation, i reserve the right to make further amendments to articles 3 and 4 of the proposal for a regulation. however, i believe it is essential to provide the appropriate means to ensure the effectiveness of the proposal for a regulation, which will prevent any deviation from the prohibition laid down in the proposal.
in writing. - the amendment of the directives in question comes at a time when significant technical innovations in the electronic and mobile payments market, their rapid growth and the creation of new types of payment services in the market, are challenging the current legislative framework. the aim of this legislative change is to create an integrated eu-wide payments market, where there is more harmonisation of rules, transparency, innovation and security. the creation of an integrated single market for secure electronic payments is essential to support the growth of the union economy and to ensure that consumers, merchants and businesses can benefit from the choice and transparency of payment services in order to take full advantage of the internal market, taking into account the development of the digital economy. effectively regulated and more predictable markets are more conducive to innovation, easier transactions and facilitation of economic activity. in this sense, and in view of the benefits of this legislation for portuguese citizens and businesses, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the amendment of the directives in question comes at a time when significant technical innovations in the electronic and mobile payments market, their rapid growth and the creation of new types of payment services in the market, are challenging the current legislative framework. the aim of this legislative change is to create an integrated eu-wide payments market, where there is more harmonisation of rules, transparency, innovation and security. the creation of an integrated single market for secure electronic payments is essential to support the growth of the union economy and to ensure that consumers, merchants and businesses can benefit from the choice and transparency of payment services in order to take full advantage of the internal market, taking into account the development of the digital economy. effectively regulated and more predictable markets are more conducive to innovation, easier transaction and mediation of economic activity. in this sense, and in view of the benefits of this legislation for portuguese citizens and businesses, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the single market for electronic communications is at the heart of the digital economy. in order for europe to fully exploit the potential for growth, competitiveness and jobs that the digital single market has to offer, it is necessary to strengthen the role of telecommunications in providing innovation and connectivity to all sectors of the economy. indeed, the economies of scale of a telecoms market of 500 million people would allow the electronic communications sector to be strengthened and to provide high-quality, innovative connectivity services to european citizens and all sectors of the economy, making europe a strong and competitive player globally. i believe that the completion of the digital single market is a process which needs to be accelerated and the commission's proposal represents an important step forward in this direction.
in writing. - i am very pleased to have voted today for a regulation which fully reflects one of the great european objectives, the creation of an internal market. in this particular case, the creation of an internal market for the telecommunications sector, where it was decided that in 2015 the roaming charges which have existed until now in the mobile communications sector would be abolished. in 2015, we will finally see these tariffs abolished and the means of communication within the european union made easier, with more and more families living and working in different member states.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the del castillo report on the single market for electronic communications because the new legislative diploma completes the integration of electronic communications in the eu area by abolishing roaming charges for telephone calls, sms, e-mail and data from 2015. this is an essential step in creating a genuine single market for personal communications, facilitating free movement within the union. the european commission's determination and persistence in this matter are to be commended.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. in order for europe to fully exploit the potential for growth, competitiveness and jobs that the digital single market has to offer, it is necessary to strengthen the role of telecommunications in providing innovation and connectivity to all sectors of the economy. indeed, the economies of scale of a telecoms market of 500 million people would allow the electronic communications sector to be strengthened and to provide high quality and innovative connectivity services to european citizens and all sectors of the economy, making europe a strong competitive player globally. the european parliament considers that the completion of the digital single market is a process which needs to be accelerated and the commission's proposal represents an important step forward in this direction. however, taking into account the views of stakeholders, parliament considers that some of the proposed measures should be subject to a more in-depth and structured public consultation and a thorough ex ante assessment of the expected impact and, consequently, be included in the next review of the framework for electronic communications. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report aims to deepen the single market for electronic communications in the eu. according to its advocates, electronic communications companies will be able to operate and provide the service wherever their customers are established. however, this is fundamentally a giant step in the further liberalization of the sector which favours the great powers and sharpens the interest of multinationals in obtaining the monopoly of electronic communications, which will be done by destroying more jobs and to the detriment of the interests of workers who will be subject to greater pressure to reduce wages and other rights. the regulation has positive aspects related to the abolition of roaming charges and net neutrality, providing that all internet traffic is treated equally, without discrimination, restrictions or interference, regardless of the sender, receiver, type, content, device, service or application. it also provides for the improvement of certain consumer rights, in particular the right to compensation, the termination of contracts for non-compliant services and contractual amendments, proposals which have been supported by us. the positive aspects do not, however, cancel out a liberalization trend whose consequences will far outweigh them. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the digital agenda for europe identifies the existing obstacles to europe's digital development and provides for legislation on trust services such as electronic signatures and mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication. i think it is important that this initiative aims at establishing a clear legal framework that will put an end to fragmentation and lack of interoperability, improve digital citizenship and prevent cybercrime. the adoption of legislation ensuring the mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication across the eu is also a key action of the single market act and the stability and growth pact. this proposal follows on from what the european parliament has been stressing in terms of the importance of the security of electronic services. i welcome the commission's proposal as a good starting point and the effort to establish a legal framework at european union level. i believe, however, that both the aims and the content of the proposed regulation could be further clarified and it is important that the legislators consider the proposal in its entirety carefully.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. this regulation will make it possible to strengthen the confidence of institutions, businesses and citizens in electronic signature and identification means. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this matter.
in writing. - the european union does not have any general transnational and cross-sectoral framework for secure, reliable and simple electronic transactions covering electronic identification, authentication and trust services. the existing eu legislation on the subject, in particular the directive on a community framework for electronic signatures, covers only electronic signatures. the digital agenda for europe identifies existing obstacles to europe's digital development and provides for legislation on trust services such as electronic signatures and mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication, with a view to establishing a clear legal framework that will end fragmentation and lack of interoperability, enhance digital citizenship and prevent cybercrime. i voted in favour of the adoption of this legislation which aims to ensure the mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication throughout the eu and which is also a key action of the single market act and the stability and growth pact. the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the importance of the security of electronic services.
in writing. - we are not opposed to technological progress making it possible to sign documents electronically in a secure, recognised and legal manner, provided that this system does not call into question, in particular, the principles relating to the protection of personal data. this report states that an electronic signature cannot be denied legal effect because it is in that form or because it does not meet the requirements of a qualified electronic signature. however, the legal effect of electronic signatures in the member states should be defined by national law, except for the requirement laid down in this regulation that a qualified electronic signature should have an equivalent legal effect to a handwritten signature. the framework for developing legislation in this area is of course to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, a framework with which we do not agree because of all the consequences that the internal market in electronic communications has for the people today, in particular because of the privatisation of the public companies that provide these services and therefore the limitation of access to the poorest sections of the population.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that the financial crisis of 2008 has raised doubts about the proper functioning of the european statutory audit system, especially as regards public-interest entities. while the weaknesses in the banking sector were probably due to the lack of adequate supervision and regulatory safeguards, there were calls for improvements to the statutory audit system to strengthen investor protection in the financial statements published by companies. it could possibly be discussed whether, and to what extent, the application of more appropriate audit rules could have avoided the crisis. however, i believe that a stronger audit process and a more dynamic audit market are an asset to enhance trust and reliability. i welcome the commission's proposal in this respect. however, in my view, this objective could only be achieved by drastic intervention on the market, although the adequacy of such measures is questionable. furthermore, some of the proposed measures could lead to further market concentration and should therefore be carefully considered.
in writing. - i repeat that the need for accuracy and transparency of accounts is a requirement that is being repeated more and more in a society in which the credibility and financial soundness of so many commercial companies, and even of states, has been increasingly called into question. the good name of the institutions must be matched by good accounts, and this will add to the scepticism which, i believe, will eventually separate the wheat from the chaff and allow those who are guided by their conduct through rigor and honesty to benefit and not suffer, as has unfortunately sometimes happened. and with serious harm to the end consumer. special duties of care, rigour and transparency which also apply to the bodies auditing their accounts preclude special duties on public-interest entities.
in this report the european parliament has given due attention to the issues of improving the quality of audit services, competition in the audit market and the harmonisation of ethical standards throughout the eu. however, the costs for companies and investors were also considered. users of audit services consider the balance between the costs and benefits of implementation to be paramount at a time when companies are struggling to cope with the current difficult economic situation. in this respect, although the commission makes some reasonable points with regard to competition, some of the proposals would place an excessive burden on the companies and result in additional costs with uncertain benefit. above all, the quality of the audit must be at the forefront of any reform, shareholders and investors must be able to rely on the audit report in order to continue investing in companies. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that the commission's intention, with the proposal for a regulation on specific requirements for the statutory audit of public-interest entities, is to create a more detailed framework for audits of pis. this requires certain amendments to the directive on statutory audits of annual and consolidated accounts. however, i recommend that voluntary audits be excluded from the application of the provisions on audits, as is currently the case, as the commission proposal would result in higher costs and an additional administrative burden, and could particularly harm smes. the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation for the benefit of the european union, which is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i believe that allowing third parties to hold a majority of the voting rights in statutory audit firms may compromise the independence of the profession.
in writing. - the need for accuracy and transparency of accounts is a constantly repeated demand in a society in which the credibility and financial soundness of so many commercial companies, and even of states, has been increasingly called into question. the good name of the institutions must be matched by good accounts, and this will add to the growing scepticism which, i believe, will eventually separate the wheat from the chaff and allow those who are guided by their conduct through rigor and honesty to benefit and not suffer, as has unfortunately sometimes happened. and with serious harm to the end consumer. in this respect, auditors play a crucial role in maintaining and enhancing the credibility of the system and are responsible for ensuring the accuracy and transparency of their clients' accounts. i hope that the amendments introduced by the european parliament will be successful and will make a more significant contribution to the appreciation and dignity of the revision work.
in writing. - i approve this report because it is a very useful and reasonable proposal. by temporarily and unilaterally reducing trade barriers between the european union and ukraine, we will help ukrainian companies to increase their exports and diversify their export destinations. in other words, these unilateral preferences will help ukraine to save several hundred million euros in the coming months. as a result, ukraine's precarious balance of payments situation is expected to improve and more foreign currency to enter the country, contributing to restoring economic and financial stability and mitigating risks of currency devaluation in the country. by acting swiftly and decisively, the european union is providing ukraine with every opportunity to restore economic conditions in the country and prepare for the signing of the eu-ukraine association agreement/ftaa.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. first, because of the instability in this state. another issue is the elections which will take place next may. we don't know its outcome. it is important that we outline several possibilities for the future given the unpredictability of this issue.
in writing. - i did not vote for the zalewski report on the granting of unilateral trade preferences to ukraine, abstaining for two fundamental reasons: firstly, i think that the granting of special unilateral trade preferences to a certain country is only legal under wto law if it is authorized by a waiver from that organization, which is not the case. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the eu's trade with ukraine, which is not yet signed, for the simple reason that ukraine is not applying its part of it. secondly, i see no reason why ukraine should be exempted from the human rights, labour and environmental clauses which are binding on all beneficiaries of trade preferences from the union, including the poorest. the commission has not yet received any comments from the ukrainian authorities on the alleged violation of the principle of non-discrimination.
in writing. - i support the adoption of this legislative proposal in view of the urgency of the situation in ukraine. ukraine has indeed been going through a dramatic political situation in recent months and its new government needs solid and immediate assistance from europe in order to repel external pressures and overcome economic and financial difficulties. i voted in favour of the commission proposal which highlights strong economic support for ukraine and which has now been approved at first reading by the co-legislators so that it can be signed and implemented swiftly in order to achieve its objectives fully. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes that this proposal be adopted.
in writing. - i welcome this report, beginning by stressing the importance of effective coordination and coherence in the european union's external action, and agreeing with the view that the spheres of development, politics and security are interdependent. i believe that the european union's added value in responding to complex emergencies lies in its ability to create cross-sectoral and inter-institutional synergies in order to produce results on the ground and to achieve long-term strategic objectives. i welcome the joint communication: the european union's global approach to external conflict and crises, which represents an opportunity to clarify and make operational this approach in the new post-lisbon institutional framework, as well as to consolidate the union's commitment to a global framework for its activities in the field of external relations.
in writing. - with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and its direct consequence, the creation of the post of high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the european external action service, the eu has become a more active voice in the world. it is in this sense that the union must have a strong foreign policy which is consistent with its actions abroad. the eu must then claim its global interests and act, but in such a way as never to affect the foreign policy of its member states, because they also have their own geo-strategic interests which may conflict with the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on a comprehensive eu approach which takes stock of the situation with regard to the development of the policy framework, also noting that the strength of the eu lies in its potential to mobilise resources through all available instruments in the fields of diplomacy, security, defence, economy, trade, development and humanitarian action in full compliance with the provisions of the united nations charter and that the use of these instruments within the framework of a comprehensive approach gives it unparalleled flexibility and consequently greater effectiveness in solving the most difficult international issues and achieving its own policy objectives.
in writing. - i approve this report by first welcoming the new rules for the 2014-2020 programming period, adopted by the ordinary legislative procedure, including measures such as the appointment of audit and certification authorities, accreditation of audit authorities, audit and clearance of accounts by auditors, financial corrections and net financial corrections, proportional control and ex ante conditionality, which aim to contribute more effectively to reducing the level of error. i therefore support in this respect the increasing focus on results and thematic concentration of cohesion policy, which should ensure the high added value of co-financed operations. i also welcome the definition of serious disability and the planned increase in the level of successive disability allowances. i also note with satisfaction that in the new 2014-2020 programming period, net financial corrections in the implementation of cohesion policy can and should be applied in case of substantial deficiencies in the implementation of cohesion policy, such corrections remaining the norm in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - in my view, the role of the ec and its implementing agencies is becoming more important day by day in the process of european integration and in the decision-making process. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - having no objection to the commission being given discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, welcoming the special report of the court of auditors on the orientation of aid for the modernisation of agricultural holdings and supporting in principle its recommendations. i would remind you that specific measure 121 which subsidises investment projects to modernise agricultural holdings amounts to a total of eur 11 100 million, financed through the european agricultural fund for rural development, which represents, over the whole programming period, about 11% of the total expenditure planned for rural development in the union. i would therefore point out that all the member states have used measure 121. i therefore ask the commission to improve the common monitoring and evaluation framework so that member states and the commission have an efficient tool capable of generating relevant information that can be used to monitor the results achieved with the funds used under measure 121. finally, i would stress the need to develop reliable indicators which allow comparisons between member states (and/or regions) and the monitoring of the achievement of the union's priorities.
in my view, the court of auditors is of the utmost importance for the transparency and the smooth functioning of the union as a whole. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - having no objection to the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by noting that, in the case of budget support and european union contributions to projects with several donors carried out by international organisations, the nature of the instruments and the payment conditions limit the possibility of error in the operations. i am concerned that interest recovery orders for prefinancing payments of more than eur 750 000 are rarely issued, contrary to the applicable rules, which require that such recovery orders be issued once a year. i would also point out that interest generated by pre-financing is sometimes offset by claims for reimbursement of costs incurred, so that interest may not be recognised as revenue. i therefore ask the commission to apply the provisions of the edf financial regulations to interest on payments of larger amounts of prefinancing and to examine carefully the situation in the delegations in order to draw up an inventory of open prefinancing contracts.
in writing. - as i have always maintained, development funds are as important from the external as the internal point of view. territorial cohesion as a way of reducing disparities between regions. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - having no objection to the commission's discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, firstly because i am pleased that the court of auditors has concluded, on the basis of its audit work, that all payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were free from material error. i would also point out that in the 2012 annual report the court of auditors included observations on the european council and the council concerning errors in the design of the award procedures. it was noted that one of the errors concerned the conduct of a negotiated procedure and the other the application of a selection criterion. finally, i would like to recall the replies to the court of auditors' observations and i agree with the recommendations to the budgetary authorities to improve the design, coordination and implementation of the award procedures by means of appropriate controls and better guidance. i also recommend that the rules on the award of contracts, which all the institutions of the union are obliged to respect, be applied more strictly.
the european council and the council are institutions which are relevant to the functioning of the whole union. they are part of the decision-making process and their impact on the lives of citizens is far-reaching. the exemplary maintenance of these institutions is fundamental to the eu's progress. that is why i also support this discharge.
in writing. - having no objection to postponing your decision to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by recalling that the eeas is a newly created institution resulting from the merger of several separate services, whose activity, which started in 2011, had to face numerous technical challenges, in particular in terms of contract award and recruitment. i would also point out that the huge administrative burden resulting from the measures necessary for the establishment of the eeas decreased in 2012. however, i am concerned not only because the administrative director-general of the eeas has maintained his reservations on some of the security contracts of the union delegations, but also because reservations have been issued by several of these delegations. however, i note the importance of the current discharge in setting a framework for future discharge exercises and i believe that this framework will reinforce expectations of future developments as well as improvements in the efficiency of the eeas and its operations.
in writing. - the eeas assumes the role of the eu's diplomatic corps, being central to the implementation of the cfsp and in dual roles with the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. i vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a4-0210/2014),
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the electronic identification of bovine animals makes it possible to obtain more reliable data by strengthening the traceability system and consequently food safety. it also makes it possible to speed up the registration of bovine animals, to automate certain tasks and to ensure more efficient management of the entire bovine herd. it is therefore appropriate to encourage the development of this emerging technology. the existing legislation should be adapted, in particular with a view to recognising electronic identification as an official means of identification of bovine animals. it is also essential to ensure the harmonisation of technical standards in order to avoid the possible development of anarchy in this method of identification and a lack of interoperability between national systems. however, given the wide diversity of situations on european bovine holdings, electronic identification should remain optional for breeders, unless the member state concerned chooses to impose it on its territory.
- the production of cattle is one of the main means of livelihood for livestock farmers in the eu's most financially difficult regions. many of these producers breed endangered or near-endangered native breeds. this report is of some importance from the point of view of actual production and livestock control, but it also helps to control certain livestock problems that may arise by making it easier to identify the exact location of these occurrences.
in writing. - i think it is very important to improve the safety of beef for consumers. i think that european legislation in this area should keep pace with the natural technological development of electronic identification of bovine animals. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 2 april 2014 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals and repealing the provisions on voluntary beef labelling. this document aims to respond to three important new challenges: (1) taking into account the emerging technology of electronic identification of bovine animals; (2) simplifying the provisions on beef labelling; and (3) updating the rules on the powers conferred on the commission to take account of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the new provisions on delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by noting that the court of justice and the civil service tribunal have followed the same trend of a decrease in the number of cases adjudicated and an increase in pending cases compared to the situation in 2011. furthermore, i note that there have been no changes in the composition of the civil service tribunal. i therefore ask for clear information on the performance of all three- and five-judge chambers of the court of justice and the general court, as well as the three-judge and single-judge chambers of the civil service tribunal. i also think it is important to obtain further information on the number of cases dealt with by the president and vice-president as rapporteurs after the reorganisation of the court of justice.
in writing. - development and the aspects inherent in cooperation for development have changed exponentially in recent decades. if we also look at the year 2015, the year in which the so-called millennium development goals should have been achieved, it is clear the importance that the european union attaches to this coming year. the world's largest and most important donor of official development assistance can only strengthen through concrete policies the commitment which can be found in the founding treaties of rome and which the latest treaty of lisbon has only made possible by implementing actions such as the establishment of this much needed european year.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the registrar of the court of justice in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting first that the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor in order to apply the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied to the entities audited by it. i hereby acknowledge the auditor's opinion that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the court and of the financial results and cash flows for the year ended. i consider it pertinent to request access to the assurance report on the regularity of the use of the court of auditors' resources and the validity of the control procedures in force in 2012. whereas the court of auditors should be subject to controls as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts;
in writing. - i welcome the thorough analysis carried out in which it is stated that the financial statements of the european court of auditors give a true and fair view of its financial situation and that the funds are being used correctly for their intended purpose. i therefore congratulate the excellent performance of the court of auditors in 2012 and i support the rapporteur in all his conclusions.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the court of auditors in respect of the implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2012, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, and i would first like to express my satisfaction with the results achieved in the field of translation following the renewal of the cooperation agreement between the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. i am pleased to note that the use of external translation decreased by 1% in 2012 compared to 2011, which clearly shows that efficiency can be further improved. i am also firmly convinced that some improvements must be made to streamline the human resources in the joint services and in translation. whereas, in this context, the ongoing contacts between the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and parliament make a positive contribution to the rationalisation of resources;
the committee on economic and social affairs and industrial policy has been a member of the european parliament for a number of years. it is living proof of the enduring nature of the european institutions and the important role they play in the dialogue throughout the union. that is why i also support this discharge.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection,
in writing. - i welcome this report, noting with satisfaction that the budget implementation rate of 98.2% represents an increase on the 2011 rate of 97.5% and that further improvements in the budget implementation rate are expected in subsequent periods. i also welcome the creation of a subsidiarity steering group, which i believe strengthens the political governance of the committee and implements the newly added powers of this institution as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i would also like to highlight the plans for the internal organisation of the committee, which set out the objectives of cooperation between the departments and the development of synergies in common activities and joint actions. as regards the recommendations for the last financial year, i welcome the information provided and think it is important to keep sending regular information on projects and the budgetary impact of the measures taken.
in writing. - i consider the committee of the regions to be fundamental to territorial cohesion and as a mediating body for reducing imbalances between regions in the eu. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee of the regions of 18 february 2012 on the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2012,
in writing. - i approve this report, noting that 98.3% of the total appropriations have been committed and 88.69% paid, with a utilization rate of 95.88%. these figures reflect what i consider to be a commendable improvement in the utilization rate. however, i support the improvements in financial planning to ensure more efficient budget implementation and this effort needs to be maintained in the coming financial years. i also welcome the ombudsman's 2012 annual management plan, which contains key indicators to assess the ombudsman's performance in meeting its objectives. i invite the ombudsman to include in his next annual activity report the rate of under-utilisation of interpreting services requested during the year.
in writing. - the ombudsman's role is not only to recommend but also to require that the person holding the post and the services under his authority exercise their powers in a particularly exemplary manner. this requirement must also apply to budgetary matters. i hope that the european ombudsman will continue to strengthen his position and operational capacity within the union in line with developments and that he will make increasingly appropriate and effective use of the funds at his disposal.
in writing. - having no objection to the ombudsman's discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the financial year 2012, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting with satisfaction that in the 2012 annual report the court of auditors noted that no significant deficiencies had been identified in relation to the audited topics, as regards human resources and the award of contracts in the context of the authority. i note that in 2012 the authority had commitment appropriations totalling eur 7 624 090 and that the implementation rate of those appropriations was 89,69%. i therefore regard this as a positive development. i would, however, call for a further effort to improve the rate of implementation and to monitor changes. i conclude by welcoming the progress made in the management of benefits and the court of auditors' conclusions on the effectiveness of the measures taken and the authority's intention to continue improving its monitoring and control system in a timely manner.
in writing. - i welcome the progress made by the european data protection supervisor in the management of benefits and the court of auditors' conclusions on the effectiveness of the measures taken. i would also like to congratulate the authority on its intention to continue improving its monitoring and control system in a timely manner. i therefore congratulate the european data protection supervisor on his excellent work and i support the rapporteur in all his conclusions.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by acknowledging that the commission is taking the steps required to improve the coordination of the various audits, in particular the internal audit service. i stress the importance of parliamentary scrutiny of the agencies' annual work programmes by the relevant parliamentary committees before the annual work programmes are adopted, recalling that this practice helps to ensure that these work programmes reflect the real political priorities and facilitates monitoring and control of their implementation. i therefore hope that in this context there will be closer cooperation between the agencies, the committees and the european commission, in line with the joint declaration of 19 july 2012 on decentralised agencies, when drawing up their annual work programmes.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has a duty to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the needs of the citizens of the union. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2012: performance, financial management and control, which stresses that agencies, in order to operate effectively and make the most of their resources, should seek to achieve synergies, promote the exchange of good practices and share services.
in writing. - i approve this report as, according to the information provided, the agency signed a letter of mission with the commission's internal audit service and received the first visit in february 2012. this was the time when this service carried out a full risk assessment of the agency's operational, administrative and support processes with the aim of establishing the audit strategy for 2013-2015, as well as a limited review of the application of internal control standards. i would point out that during the risk analysis processes of inherent high risk were identified. it was concluded that these services need to be improved, in particular planning and monitoring, performance evaluation and career progression, document and data management, facility management, logistics, security, stakeholder relations and communication, internal market surveillance, cooperation between national regulatory authorities and monitoring of the application of network codes. i think it is very important that the agency has presented an action plan to improve controls in these cases, which has been approved by the commission's audit service.
in writing. - this agency plays an important role in the cooperation between energy regulators. the existence of this institution is essential for the functioning of competition in the energy market. so i support this discharge too.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by noting with concern that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 63.4% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 66.16%. i therefore urge the agency to substantially improve its budget monitoring efforts and the implementation rates referred to above, and expect the agency to communicate the measures taken to correct the situation by 1 september 2014. however, i regret that 45% of the appropriations carried over from 2011 have been cancelled, and i express my concern that eur 545 000 of appropriations have not been used.
in writing. - i hope that the european parliament's recommendations will enable the body of european regulators for electronic communications to exercise its powers more efficiently, rigorously and transparently. electronic communications are playing an increasingly important role in the way we interact with each other, and your regulatory body must not only propose best practice in this area, but also equip itself with the operational capacity to apply best practice in its operation, management and budgetary practice.
in writing. - having regard to the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of 16 december 2012 on the proposal for a council decision on the discharge to be given to the administrative director of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the budget of the body for the financial year 2012,
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by noting that the annual audit of the court of auditors found no significant problems with regard to the level of appropriations carried over in 2012. i therefore congratulate the centre on its respect for the principle of annuality and on its timely implementation of the budget. furthermore, i am pleased to note that according to the annual activity report and the court of auditors' audit findings, the level and nature of transfers in 2012 remained within the limits of the financial regulations. i welcome the centre's demonstration of good budgetary planning once again. i would like to conclude by calling on the centre, for reasons of performance, to communicate the results and impact of its action to european citizens in an accessible way, for example through its website, among other means.
- the translation centre for the bodies of the european union was set up in 1994 to provide the translation services necessary for the functioning of the specialised and decentralised agencies of the european union. the centre plays an important role in the european union by ensuring that the 24 official languages are always represented and respected and that all citizens have direct access to the information they want in their own language. i therefore congratulate the excellent work of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union and i support the rapporteur in all his conclusions.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities,
in writing. - i approve this report, noting that, on the basis of information from the centre, a comprehensive process of budgetary programming and monitoring of public procurement has been developed. this initiative helped to reduce the number of transfers in 2012 by more than 25%. a methodology has also been developed which includes parameters, projections and initiatives to improve the estimates of title i-related expenditure. i also welcome the fact that, in order to implement the 2010 recommendations of the commission's internal audit service (ias), a comprehensive service continuity plan, assessing the risk of potential disruptions, has been finalised and approved. this initiative allows the definition of the critical functions and the necessary response times and includes an action plan for their implementation.
in writing. - vocational training is extremely relevant to the qualification of our citizens. it improves their adaptability to the labour market and also to the needs of companies. but its added value is that the existing imbalances between education levels can be tackled. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a4-0210/2014),
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by reminding the academy that it needs to ensure full compliance with the academy's recruitment guide and promote transparency in recruitment procedures. i am also concerned that vacancy notices are not always published with the required six weeks before the deadline for applications. there was no evidence that the evaluators had checked whether the rules for submitting applications had been respected. i am concerned that the selection criteria applied did not always correspond to those set out in the vacancy notices and that in some cases there were considerable delays in the examination of applications. i would like to conclude by noting that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the board of directors, the executive director and senior management are not publicly accessible and i believe it is essential that the academy urgently remedy this situation.
in the case of the european police, the training of european police officers, with a view to cross-border policing of the eu, is a good way forward in the european integration process. the fight against crime based on advanced training tailored to the needs of citizens is of benefit to all, and this project should therefore be further intensified. so i support this discharge too.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the director of the european police college for the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve of this report, beginning by welcoming the adoption by the agency of a one-year reserve period to avoid new staff being given assignments on dossiers on which they have worked directly in the previous five years. i would also note that following the recommendation of the discharge authority, the agency will include information and statistics on the management of conflicts of interest in its annual activity report for 2013. however, i regret the lack of information available on the agency's website on the members of the board of appeal. i understand that the names, cvs and declarations of interest of these members should be made public, and i therefore ask the agency to resolve this matter as a matter of urgency.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the safety of aircraft is not compromised. the crash of the malaysia airlines plane and its disappearance have laid bare that, contrary to what was commonly assumed, the traceability of an aircraft is not always possible and neither is the status and whereabouts of its occupants. the european union has a vested interest in promoting aviation safety, also because of this and the high standards it imposes on airlines operating in its airspace. i hope that the european aviation safety agency will continue its increasingly important work and will always improve its standards of budget implementation in line with european best practice.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014),
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with the fact that the budgetary needs for 2012 have been considerably overestimated. i note with concern that the appropriations committed have been carried over, representing 65.13% of the total appropriations committed for the period of financial autonomy. i would remind the support office that the high level of transition does not respect the budgetary principle of annuality. i therefore invite the support office to improve its performance in this area. i do, however, acknowledge that the transitions relate mainly to invoices not yet received or paid at the end of the year and to outstanding reimbursements of expenses relating to experts. i further acknowledge that, in addition, some eur 800 000 relates to renovation work carried out on the premises of the support office in 2012, for which payments will be made after final receipt.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european asylum support office is able to provide assistance to the countries of the european union whose asylum systems are under particular pressure, and to implement the common european asylum system (ceas). however, the court of auditors' auditor has not yet validated easo's accounting system, so i support the rapporteur in all his conclusions and the need to quickly correct this situation.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2012, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting with concern that, in order to cover higher school fees, the authority grants staff whose children attend primary or secondary school a supplementary contribution to the school allowance provided for in the staff regulations (the staff regulations), the total amount of which in 2012 amounted to approximately eur 76 000. i would point out that these allowances are not covered by the staff regulations and are therefore considered irregular by the court of auditors. however, i acknowledge that this situation is due to the absence of european schools in the city where the authority is located and that the purpose of these additional contributions is to ensure equal treatment of the authority's staff under the staff regulations.
in the case of the european banking authority, the commission has a very important role to play in the supervision of the banks of the member states. its functions are becoming increasingly relevant because of the subject under discussion of the banking union. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2012, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by noting that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 contributed to the high budget implementation rate of 93,91%, further noting that the payment execution rate was 76,26% and that the budget implementation rates were satisfactory in title i (staff expenditure) and title ii (operating expenditure), standing at 97% and 80% of the appropriations committed respectively. reminds the centre that it receives its funding from the commission budget and therefore requests, however, that the centre make clear in its internal and external communication that it receives funds made available by the union budget (union grant) and not funds made available by the commission grant;
in a world which is increasingly globalised and interconnected, the spread of the epidemic is potentially universal and therefore a matter of growing concern. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i hope that the european centre for disease prevention and control will follow the recommendations of the court of auditors and step up its efforts to improve the transparency and publicity of its activities.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a4-0210/2014),
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by noting that in 2012 the budget implementation rates for titles i and ii were satisfactory, but i note with concern that the rate of transition of appropriations committed for title iii was high, reaching 50. however, i acknowledge that this situation is mainly due to the multiannual nature of significant it development projects, substance evaluations with an annual regulatory deadline set at february n+1, translations not yet delivered at the end of the year and the start of two new activities, biocides and icp, in the second half of the year. finally, i would point out that for the second consecutive year the agency did not receive any contribution from the union budget in 2012 in accordance with the reach and cre regulations.
in writing. - in a world where chemicals are used for a wide variety of purposes and the need to regulate their use is growing, the european chemicals agency has a major role to play in benefiting human health and the environment. so i support this discharge too.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european chemicals agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by noting that the agency will carry out an assessment to identify the degree of exposure, with a view to reinforcing or supplementing its policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest. it will also assess its implementation, monitoring and reporting during the first quarter of 2014, on the basis of the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in the decentralised agencies of the european union. i therefore urge the agency to inform the discharge authority of the results of the evaluation as soon as they are available. i also note that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, the members of the scientific committee, the executive director and senior management are not publicly available and i ask the agency to rectify this as a matter of priority.
in the case of the european environment agency, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information it provides is accurate and reliable. i therefore congratulate the european environment agency on its excellent performance and on the fact that it has completed all the measures taken in response to the court of auditors' previous observations.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with the fact that the level of appropriations authorized for the different titles varied between 94% and 99% of the total appropriations, which indicates that the legal commitments were signed in good time. however, i would point out that for title ii (administrative expenditure) and title iii (operational expenditure), the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2013 was high, at 35% and 46% respectively. i acknowledge that in the case of title ii this situation was largely the result of events beyond the control of the agency, such as the late invoicing of office rents in 2012 by the spanish authorities. i would point out that, in order to cope with the increase in operational needs in the last quarter of 2012, the agency ordered a large number of goods and services that had not yet been delivered at the end of the year. noting that, with regard to title iii, the high level of transitions is largely explained by the considerable workload that fell on the agency due to the large number of it projects that were launched or were underway in 2012, and that this workload had an impact on meeting the deadlines,
in writing. - fish stock levels are very important for the conservation of marine species and the regulation of catches. it is important that this agency continues to deal with monitoring and catch ing, so that the conservation of fish stocks is maintained for several generations. in view of this, i vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that the procedure for assessing possible conflicts of interest within the authority, where declarations of interests are examined by heads of unit and are generally assessed on a case-by-case basis, is complex and subject to criticism. this process raises questions of credibility and effectiveness. furthermore, i note with concern that even the review of the procedure did not help to allay the concerns about the impartiality of the authority's expert. i therefore urge the authority to present a simplified procedure with less ambiguity, capable of validating and streamlining the process and saving human and financial resources without calling into question the recently established rules for the detection and prevention of conflicts of interest. i welcome, however, the progress already made by the authority with regard to the policy on conflicts of interest within the authority.
in the light of the recent developments in the european union, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of horse meat in products which do not identify it as such. the european food safety authority has a leading role to play in this effort, which must be shared by all, to preserve the health and confidence of consumers and to establish a fruitful and regular dialogue with them. to be able to do so, it must persist in the good implementation of its budget.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by noting that the budget implementation monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 95.56%, and that the payment appropriations execution rate reached 63.95%. i note further that the office reduced the overall level of carry-over of committed appropriations from 50% in 2001 to 32% in 2012 and draw attention to the fact that the appropriations carried over to 2013 represent respectively 23% and 59% of the corresponding committed appropriations. finally, i would point out that the transitions under title ii mainly concern authorisations granted at the end of 2012 relating to the move to the new premises in january 2013, while the transitions under title iii mainly concern contract award procedures concluded at the end of 2012. however, i note that 7% of the committed appropriations carried over from 2011 to 2012 were not used and had to be cancelled.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the implementation of the budget. i also note with satisfaction that, according to the annual activity report and in line with the court of auditors' audit findings, the level and nature of transfers in 2012 remained within the limits of the financial regulation, reflecting excellent budgetary planning. i therefore congratulate the excellent work of the european institute for gender equality and i support the rapporteur in all his conclusions.
in writing. - we are analysing the discharge report for the financial year 2012, in which the austerity policies decided by the eu and governments were in progress, particularly in the countries under troika intervention (greece, ireland, portugal), which resulted in huge setbacks in terms of equality between men and women. in times of crisis, such as the one we are currently experiencing, it is essential that the rights of workers are defended and strengthened. the way forward must be to combat these inequalities and to strengthen the conditions under which this fight is carried out, on all fronts. we welcome the fact that the office is developing a formal monitoring tool for planning and monitoring of contracts. the efforts made to monitor budget implementation during the year under review were also positive, with a budget implementation rate of 95.56% and a payment appropriations implementation rate of 63.95%.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by highlighting the fact that in september 2013 the authority took two corrective actions following the court of auditors' observations in 2011, recalling that this process should be fully satisfactory. i note that corrective actions are still ongoing and are absolutely necessary. the authority also notes that the authority has implemented in 2012 and 2013 a number of measures concerning internal procedures to ensure an adequate level of execution fees for title ii commitments (administrative expenditure). as a result of these and other measures, the budget implementation rate for this title reached 95,37% in 2012 and 92,02% in 2013, while the implementation rate for title iii commitments was 99,21% in 2012 and 98,77% in 2013.
in writing. - the question of savings is one of the most sensitive in the whole union. they not only represent the savings of our citizens but also contribute to the welfare state. it is in this way that the european insurance and occupational pensions authority plays a leading role in protecting those who have always contributed to possible calamities in their lives, such as the day when they will no longer be able to work. so i support this discharge too.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained sufficient assurance that the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are reliable. however, it shall obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence from its audit that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, i regret that the court of auditors has found that the quality of audit certificates is not adequate in many cases, finding that at the end of 2012 the institute introduced additional ex post verifications for grants related to activities in 2011. these were carried out by independent audit firms and are considered reliable and aimed at obtaining a second level of assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant transactions. i regret that the ex post results have confirmed that the ex ante checks were not fully effective.
in the case of the new member states, the commission will be able to take account of the new member states' needs. investment in these areas is important at several levels and the institution should continue to play its important role. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with the fact that, according to the annual activity report and the court of auditors' conclusions, the level and nature of transfers in 2012 remained within the limits of financial regulation. i therefore congratulate the agency on its sound budgetary planning. however, i note with concern that in 2012 the agency concluded a number of framework contracts for the provision of services and that the contract award procedure showed some irregularities affecting the principle of transparency. however, i am pleased that 575 of the 590 available places have been filled and i would point out that at the end of 2012 the agency had 160 contract staff and seconded national experts, which represents a reduction of 17 items compared to 2011.
in the case of the european pharmacovigilance system, it will always be one step behind attempts to defraud it and to bring substances into the union that endanger the health and safety of citizens. this is inherent in their position and should not be such as to demoralize their staff before they are moved to devise more effective and creative ways of exercising their powers.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting with concern that, according to the annual audit report of the court of auditors, the centre does not normally ask beneficiaries for documents proving the eligibility and accuracy of expenditure in payment applications. both those relating to grants for cooperation measures in the reitox network and ex post on-the-spot checks of costs with beneficiaries. i therefore urge the centre to correct this situation, following the recommendation of the court of auditors, and to carry out random checks of supporting documents. i also suggest that it should ensure that beneficiaries are covered more fully by on-the-spot checks, so that the level of guarantees can be considerably increased. i also urge the centre to inform the discharge authority, in the context of the follow-up of the discharge for the 2012 financial year, of the measures taken.
in writing. - drugs and drug addiction are the worst epidemics of our society and must be stopped at all costs for the sake of future generations and family unity. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has played an excellent role in providing member states with specific data on both situations and in providing scientific data to help prepare legislation to combat these problems. i therefore congratulate the excellent work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction and i support the rapporteur in all his conclusions.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting with concern that the annual audit of the court of auditors revealed an irregular budget commitment of eur 800 000 which did not correspond to an existing legal commitment. i also note the agency's reply that this irregularity is due to a delay in signing a contract. i would remind the agency, however, that it is its duty to ensure that its annual accounts are correct and in this respect i welcome the decision to introduce annual budgetary analysis procedures to prevent this kind of situation from happening again. i would point out, however, that budgetary surveillance efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94% and a budget implementation rate of 89% of payment appropriations.
- the important functions which emsa assumes in the context of maritime safety are increasingly relevant to european security. issues such as marine pollution, trade and shipping are so important in the process of globalisation that the eu can never do without this agency. i therefore vote in favour of this discharge.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting with concern that, according to the court of auditors' annual activity report, the agency did not carry out a comprehensive physical inventory in 2012 following the physical inventory in 2009. although the financial regulation and its implementing rules provide for a physical inventory of fixed assets to be carried out at least every three years, this has not been complied with. i believe that there were difficulties in carrying out an inventory in 2012, as the inventory management module of the integrated budgetary and accounting platform, assisted by the commission, has only been functioning since that year. i welcome the fact that this issue was addressed in the new system in 2013. i also note from information provided by the agency that in 2012 the commission's internal audit service carried out an exhaustive risk assessment exercise with the aim of determining its audit priorities for the next three years. it also submitted its final strategic audit plan for the period 2013-2015 on 3 december 2012, identifying the future areas of audits to the agency for this period.
- the worldwide dependence on communications networks and information services is becoming more and more evident. the prevention, response and management of network and information security problems must be on the european agenda and occupy a prominent place in it. the european network and information security agency has a crucial role to play in this effort, which cannot be exclusive to the union and should also cover member states and businesses. the proper implementation of the budget is a prerequisite for a smooth operation and an operational capacity adequate to the special requirements imposed on it.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting, on the basis of information from the agency, that corrective measures have been implemented to reduce the negative impact on the agency's activities of the high turnover rate of operational staff. i would, however, ask the agency to inform the discharge authority of the impact of the measures taken. i also note that measures should be implemented to correct the shortcomings related to the carried over appropriations, in particular the implementation of stricter rules regarding the deadline for the signature of contracts and the revision of specific it contracts. to enable billing in line with results and the introduction by the translation centre of a new billing system for the bodies of the european union, which allows for a reduction in transfers of appropriations in the field of translation.
in writing. - railways throughout the union are an excellent link between all member states, thus benefiting european integration. competition between railway undertakings and its regulation, such as the application of funds and project aid to member states, are dependent on this agency. i foresee that this institution will become more important in the future, since the train is the most environmentally friendly and least costly means of transport available. in a europe recovering from the crisis, this agency will have to monitor the evolution of railways in the dynamics of the recovery process. so i support this discharge too.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting with concern that, according to the court of auditors' annual audit report, 14% of the total appropriations were cancelled and that 21% of the appropriations authorised were carried over to 2013. however, i acknowledge that the high level of cancellations is mainly due to the fact that the budget was drawn up on the basis of the full staffing level at the beginning of 2012, while some recruitments were only made during the year. another reason is the delays in the it competitions. however, i note with concern that the level of appropriations carried over is high, at 39% for title ii and 52% for title iii. i further acknowledge that, as regards title ii, this situation is mainly due to the fact that a major contract for works to be carried out on the authority's premises was awarded in december 2012. as regards title iii, the high level of committed appropriations carried over is due to the multiannual nature of major it development projects and delays in their calls for tenders.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, i would draw attention to the important role of the foundation in improving the development of human capital in the partner countries. in this context, i welcome the achievement of the objectives of the work programme, in which i positively highlight the increase in the number of achievements in the field of entrepreneurship in 2012, detailed in the annual activity report. i recognise the importance of the foundation's activities on issues such as youth employment, a renewed focus on education and vocational training, as well as the skills dimension of small and mediumsized enterprises and migration processes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that according to its financial statements, the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year represented an increase of 6.95% compared to 2011. furthermore, as the court of auditors indicates that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i welcome the agency's continued contribution to the promotion of high standards of occupational health and safety in the union. i would like to highlight the important core activities of the agency in 2012, such as the forecasting project linked to the risks associated with green jobs and the launch of the workplace health campaign. i look forward to the agency's new multiannual strategic programme, closely linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and supporting the much needed and awaited union strategy on safety and health at work 2013-2020.
in writing. - i approve this report, reminding the commission of the court of auditors' observation that between 2008 and 2011 the agency did not have its own budget and that the commission directly financed and discharged all expenditure, which the court of auditors considered not to be in line with the agency's statute. i also note with concern that in 2012, although the commission granted the agency its own budget, including financial revenues from its own investments, enjoying financial autonomy granted by several treaties and the agency's basic statutes, the majority of the agency's expenditure continued to be directly financed by the commission. in view of this, i would ask the commission to explain this.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i also welcome the foundation's contribution to the promotion of knowledge about living and working conditions in the union at a time when these conditions continue to deteriorate in some member states. i recall the launch of the 5th general report on european working conditions, which contains important and relevant findings on trends in quality of employment, sustainable work and ageing of the labour force, health and well-being, working time and work-life balance. i note that the 2012 annual programme was the last of the foundation's four-year programme from 2009 to 2012. i welcome the foundation's rapid response to the changes in policy priorities induced by the economic crisis, through the launch of new projects linked to priority themes on the social impact of the crisis, recovery and job creation, demographic change and sustainability of the public sector.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting with the urgent need for eurojust to improve the transparency of recruitment procedures. i note that it has not been established that the questions asked in the tests and interviews were defined before the examination of the applications by the selection board, nor that the weighting between the written tests and the interviews was established before the examination of the candidates. i therefore ask eurojust to follow up this issue in the follow-up report on the 2012 discharge. i also take note of eurojust's provisions on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. i conclude by calling on eurojust to inform the discharge authority of its intention to review its provisions, on the basis of the commission's guidelines, on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in the decentralised agencies of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, expressing concern that europol is spending a considerable amount on changes to its building related to the creation of the european cybercrime centre. in this respect, i note that although i had agreed these changes with the host state in july 2012, the contract for the necessary works was only signed in april 2013. i also note that europol has transferred eur 100 000 related to the introduction of a new human resources system, expressing concern that the two transfers of appropriations do not correspond to the legal commitments made at the end of the financial year and are therefore irregular. finally, i urge europol to take measures to prevent similar situations in the future and to report on these issues in the framework of the follow-up to the 2012 discharge.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting with concern that in 2012 the agency contracted cleaning services through cascade framework contracts with two suppliers and that due to an administrative error during the evaluation of the tenders, the classification of the contractors was incorrect. i also note that as a result of this error, a specific contract for the amount of eur 56 784 was awarded in 2012 and that the payments for it are irregular. however, i acknowledge that following the court of auditors' audit, the agency has changed the classification of contractors accordingly. i would point out that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 contributed to the high budget implementation rate of 100%.
in writing. - i approve this report, and i regret that in the absence of effective ex ante and ex post checks there is no reasonable assurance that the transactions are legal and regular. i also regret that the court of auditors was unable to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence on the legality and regularity of the operations concerning audited grants relating to the agency's activities in 2012, which represent 63% of the operating expenditure. i end by once again regretting that the court of auditors has concluded that, despite the agency having adopted an ex post audit strategy in 2012 and having carried out three audits, no expenditure relating to 2012 has yet been verified.
in writing. - i approve this report, regretting that the agency did not reply to the questionnaire on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest and i urge the agency to inform the discharge authority of the actions it has implemented to follow up on the court of auditors' special report no 15/2012. i think it is very important that parliament's recommendations are followed, that all agencies should develop and implement comprehensive independence policies and procedures, including a trust mechanism and clear sanctions, or amend existing ones. i would also point out that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, as well as the declarations of interests of the executive director and senior management, are not publicly available and i therefore ask the agency to change this situation as a matter of priority.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by urging the joint undertaking to report to the european parliament on the negative aspects identified by the court of auditors. i would ask that this report be sent to parliament, together with an assessment by the court of auditors. i reiterate that the joint undertaking should immediately strengthen the quality of ex ante controls. i also ask that the discharge authority be informed of the results of subsequent ex post audit procedures. in addition, i note that the joint undertaking is in an ongoing process to address these issues with the court of auditors and expects positive results in the coming years.
in writing. - i approve this report, welcoming the court of auditors' conclusion that in 2012 the joint undertaking improved its management procedures, as well as its administrative, financial and accounting procedures. i note that, although with some limitations as regards the exhaustivity of the operational information managed, the joint undertaking has implemented the grant management tool (gmt), which is a specific application for managing financial information regarding the implementation of grant agreements concluded with the members. however, i am concerned that the audit certificates attached to the payment applications of two beneficiaries were found to contain reservations about the contracts of the staff working on the project. i would point out that in one of these payment requests the audit certificate also included reservations on the fees applied to indirect costs. i further note that the joint undertaking followed up these cases and that in the end no ineligible costs were paid; calls on the joint undertaking to ensure that the costs of the audit are properly disbursed to the joint undertaking;
in writing. - i approve this report by first urging the joint undertaking to report to the european parliament on the negative aspects identified by the court of auditors and request that this report be forwarded to parliament, accompanied by an assessment by the court of auditors. i would also like to point out that the joint undertaking carried out a limited analysis of the declarations of expenditure in 2012 and concluded that the error rate of the programme is below 2%. i would point out that the court of auditors considers that the exercise did not include any audit and did not provide any assurance as to the regularity of the declarations of expenditure examined. i therefore urge the joint undertaking to improve the quality of its ex ante and ex post controls without delay. i would also ask that the discharge authority be informed of the results of the next ex post audit procedures.
in writing. - i approve this report and note that the internal audit structure of the joint undertaking audited the ex ante controls on the eligibility of declared costs and their payments and provided a number of advisory services, including the preparation and participation in the joint undertaking's communication campaigns on financial control and audit issues. however, i welcome the fact that the joint undertaking has completed the business continuity and disaster recovery plan in 2012. i am also concerned that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the governing board and the executive director are not publicly available and i therefore urge the joint undertaking to resolve the situation as a matter of urgency. i conclude with a call on the joint undertaking to develop and adopt a comprehensive policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. - i approve this report by first emphasising that, according to the court of auditors, the joint undertaking has continued to develop adequate and comprehensive internal control systems. however, more effort is needed in documenting and updating administrative and operational procedures (in particular for ex post and accounting closure activities). this initiative will help to mitigate the risks of errors and inconsistencies in practice. however, i am pleased that in 2012 the joint undertaking's accounting officer reported the validation of the accounting system and that most of the identified deficiencies were corrected by the end of the year.
in writing. - i approve this report. i note that the audit methodology adopted by the court of auditors includes analytical audit procedures, an assessment of the key controls of the supervisory and control systems and tests of operations at the level of the joint undertaking, but not at the level of the members or final beneficiaries of the joint undertaking. i would also point out that the audit tests at the level of the members or final beneficiaries are carried out either by the joint undertaking or by external audit firms contracted and monitored by the joint undertaking. in conclusion, i welcome the court of auditors' special report no 2/2013 entitled 'has the commission ensured an efficient implementation of the seventh research framework programme?', in which the court of auditors examined whether the commission has ensured the effective implementation of the seventh framework programme for research and technological development.
in writing. - i welcome this report and welcome the fact that in 2012 the commission's internal audit service and the joint undertaking's internal audit control started to implement the joint undertaking's coordinated sai strategic audit plan for 2012-2014. i note further that a programme/project audit and a joint undertaking it risk assessment were carried out and three calls for tenders were examined where the application of four internal control standards were audited. i expect the audit to follow closely budgetary expenditure, including the assessment of in-kind contributions and payments made to the 15 members of the joint undertaking for the programme activities involving more than 100 private and public entities and subcontractors. however, i consider that a high level of transparency is a key element in mitigating the risks of conflict of interest and therefore urge the joint undertaking to make the policies and/or provisions on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, as well as their implementing rules, available on its website. finally, i would like to call for the list of the members of the management board and their cvs to be made publicly available.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by regretting that although the revenue from own resources has ceased to be the main source of union funding, it still represents 20%. in this sense, the proper collection of vat and customs duties directly influences not only the economies of the member states and the budget of the european union, but also the european taxpayers. i would remind you that, according to commission estimates, €1 trillion of potential tax revenue is lost annually due to tax evasion and fraud, representing an annual cost of some €2 000 per year for each european citizen. i therefore welcome the commission's action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and insist that both the commission and the member states continue to give priority to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which requires the creation of a strategy for enhanced and multidimensional cooperation and coordination between the member states and the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the 2012 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud, which welcomes the main initiatives of the commission, at the request of the european parliament, with a view to defining a new european legislative framework for the fight against fraud policy, and in particular the proposal for a directive on combating fraud to the detriment of the european union's financial interests by means of criminal law, which aims to clarify and harmonise the criminal law of the member states as regards offences against the eu budget.
in writing. - i approve this motion for a resolution and welcome the initiative envisaged in the context of the geneva interim agreement on the iranian nuclear programme concluded between the eu3+3 group and iran. i consider it essential that all parties continue to participate constructively in the negotiation process so that the final comprehensive agreement is concluded within the agreed timeframe. i would also stress that the solution is through peaceful negotiations, in order to respond to the concerns of the international community about the exclusively peaceful nature of iran's nuclear programme and the regional and security sensitivities. i further welcome the decisions taken by the council at its meeting of 20 january 2014 to implement the joint action plan, in particular the provisions on the partial relief of sanctions, stressing the crucial importance of reliable monitoring of iran's compliance with its commitments under the joint action plan.
mr president, actually it is on the same subject. on 6 april the hungarian people voted to ensure that the government of viktor orbán, which this house has frequently labelled as despotic and therefore undemocratic, would finally be ousted by the hungarians voting in a free and fair election. a government with a two-thirds majority that had imposed on hungary an outrageous new constitution and a new electoral law (which, by the way, was endorsed by the venice commission) was finally going to be rejected by the citizens of hungary. but no, a very loud no; for the third time, the wise hungarian people gave viktor orbán an absolute majority; what is more, for the second consecutive time fidesz has got a fantastic two-thirds majority. why? because the government of mr orbán did not lie to his people as his predecessor did; because, regardless of the shouts from this european parliament, the free citizens of hungary endorsed the reforms and the successful financial, economic and social policies of his government. it is time for us all to respect the free will expressed by the hungarian people.
mr president, on 8 april israel demolished humanitarian aid projects in the west bank built with european funds, in complete violation of all international laws. the european union has not yet taken a position on the matter. israel continues to enjoy total impunity. the systematic violations of human rights in the occupied territories are joined by the endless blockade of the gaza strip, an open-air prison with a population of 1.7 million, of whom 1.2 million are refugees. with little access to electricity and clean water, no way to go outside, even when it comes to studying or getting medical treatment, palestinians in gaza are prisoners in their own land. israel controls their lives, their energy, their water, their economy and their exits. recently, even an official delegation from this parliament was prevented by israel from entering gaza, where they were to visit unrwa projects. and i ask: when will there be political will on the part of the european union to force israel to end this collective punishment of the people of gaza?
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, in this plenary session, the last of this parliamentary term, the european parliament will adopt three more key pieces of legislation for the management of banking crises. and this is perhaps the most important piece of legislation since the 2008 crisis, with the bailout of banks involving over 26% of the union's gdp, spending the equivalent of six eu budgets and dragging countries and companies into a crisis that still persists. it was possible to do things differently, and this is what parliament said back in 2010 in the report that commissioner barnier was kind enough to mention. at that time parliament was pressing the european commission to act with courage and determination, and under the guidance of commissioner michel barnier and his team, the answer came. banks are the lifeblood of the european economy. their health determines the lives of companies and families. at today's sitting we will finally approve the european rules which must manage a crisis in a bank in a predictable and organised way, by enshrining the allocation of losses to shareholders and creditors, the so-called bail-in, and financing the resolution through funds fed by the banks according to their risk profile. we will also confirm by law the national guarantee for deposits of less than eur 100 000. for the euro area and the acceding countries, the ambition is higher. the banking union includes single supervision centred on the european central bank, which is already operational this year. but strong supervision would have to be matched by a strong and unique resolution system, and that is what i hope we will also be adopting today. as rapporteur, i am convinced that here too parliament's contribution has greatly improved the council's text. the scheme we will approve centers on the ecb declaring a bank unviable, frees the resolution process from possible and likely political interference by member states and substantially speeds up the constitution of the common part of the resolution fund almost 70% after 3 years. the regime has become more european, more credible and more efficient. because the negotiations were very difficult, the usual thanks are particularly sincere in this case, first to sharon, corinne, sylvie, sven, vicky, the four women and one man on parliament's negotiating team, for their commitment, determination and resistance, but also to the leaders of the political groups, and let me also highlight the thanks of my own socialist and democratic group, and the president of parliament, who accompanied us and politically strengthened our convictions. together we have made the european parliament a negotiating partner of unwavering strength and determination. the council has understood that position. and i thank the greek presidency and minister iannis stournaras, the president of the eurogroup, minister jeroen dijsselbloem, for the serious effort to bring the two co-legislators closer together, and i also thank the whole team at the european commission for facilitating this rapprochement. of course, without our collaborators none of this would have been possible. but we have to follow up on the implementation. we welcome the commitment of the council expressed here today to ratify the intergovernmental agreement before 1 january 2016 and the commitment to have a credit line operational from the start of the operation of the resolution fund. we trust that the interpretation of instruments such as precautionary capitalisation will be consistent with the principle that taxpayers will no longer finance banks. i'll be right with you, madam president. i would just like to remind you that the third pillar of the banking union is a single deposit guarantee system which has yet to be built. this parliament is laying the foundations for breaking the dependence between banks and the state, for protecting taxpayers and depositors, for putting banking at the service of business and jobs. it will be up to the new parliament to ensure that what we have achieved today is not lost in the implementation and deepening phase which is the next phase. thank you so much again.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the crisis, but that it should be involved in the fight against terrorism. at that time, they were opposed to deregulation of the financial markets and warned that draconian measures would be taken to ensure that the crisis, and a crisis like this, could never happen again. six years later, after having invested 26% of european gdp or the equivalent of six community budgets in saving the banks, what was done was done at a snail's pace and far below what was needed. the task of putting the finances in order is not only unfinished, it has not even begun. the banking union project is, in my view, the best example of this failed promise. the task of creating a regulatory framework that disciplines the financial system has been failed, and then the european institutions propose to create a central superbank. a central superbank that accumulates monetary policy functions, banking supervision functions, in addition to all the tasks it performs that are outside its mandate. the european central bank is therefore today the most powerful non-democratic institution in the world. the good news about this banking union package, i must say, the only good news, is that a european resolution fund is finally being set up. but this good news will not be complete for eight years. a lot can happen in eight years. in eight years, a lot of people and a lot of heads can change their minds. we will not make this promise unrealistic, because, as i say, it is the only good news in this package. but it is becoming unbearable that the way in which all the reforms that can make the eurozone and the european union viable projects are systematically delayed and systematically put the interests of the financial market ahead of the interests of the people.
madam president, today we are living in this plenary of the european parliament a historic day of debate on the subject of banking union, but also of voting on many of those which are its essential legislative documents. and so i would like to congratulate the european parliament, the european commission, commissioner barnier, president barroso and the council on the joint effort that has been made in this area. one of the promises that many of us had in 2009 was that it would not be possible for taxpayers to continue to pay for problems of a banking nature. today we are giving a very clear signal that this page is being turned. banking union is a positive european response. it will lead to the interest that companies have to pay on their loans becoming more and more equivalent. the differences which have existed up to now are not acceptable. but there is also a great challenge ahead of us, which is to defend our depositors, to guarantee our depositors. this will be one of the major challenges for the mandate which will now begin in the european parliament after the elections. this is my last speech as a member of the european parliament. i will be on the sidelines hoping that everything will go well in the next term and that we can move in a positive direction with regard to this matter of depositors. i would like to thank many of my colleagues who are here today with all my heart for all they have done for europe, for all they have taught me during this mandate, for all they have done to help me grow politically and to hope that everything can continue for the better. that's the way it is.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the proposed regulation is part of the effort to create a banking union in the eu in order to increase financial stability and ensure that the european economy can rely on a properly functioning financial sector. the regulation establishes a single resolution mechanism (srm) one of the measures considered by the european council in march 2013 as essential for the completion of the banking union. the srm will apply to euro area member states and other member states that have opted to participate in it. the proposal is based on article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in parallel with the proposal for a regulation, the commission is also proposing a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms.
in writing. - today, another important step towards the creation of a true banking union has been taken: the creation of a bank resolution mechanism and a single resolution fund. banking supervision will no longer be the sole responsibility of individual national authorities, but will be the responsibility of the european central bank together with all supervisory authorities, and the decision to recover or liquidate a credit institution will now be the responsibility of the resolution authority, the national competent authorities, the ecb and the european commission, creating a more robust system and less susceptible to failures that could endanger europe as a whole. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. for the first time there will be a european mutual fund. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague elisa ferreira on her work and remind her that ruinous situations such as the bpn in portugal or the savings banks in spain will be increasingly rare in europe.
in writing. - the adoption of the bank resolution mechanism diploma (e. ferreira report) is not only the second fundamental pillar of the banking union, but also the essential building block of the european union's response to the financial crisis that has engulfed europe since 2009. this term will be marked by two historic events: first, the transformation of the ep into a full-fledged parliament under the lisbon treaty; second, the union's overcoming the most serious test of european integration since its inception. happy are those who have had the privilege of being part of this legislature. when i was elected in 2009, i never imagined i'd have this privilege! in presenting my final statement of vote, it could not have been more auspicious.
in writing. - i abstained from the final vote on the single resolution mechanism to signal my objection to the council's impositions in the final agreement. the council undermined the ordinary legislative procedure by applying a method which split the commission's proposed regulation, turning the srm into an intergovernmental mechanism when it should have been communityised. as i have always argued, banking union is essential to stabilise the euro area and break the vicious circle between banking and sovereign debt. a srm that operates in a predictable and equal manner for all member states is essential. instead, this final agreement - despite the great work of the rapporteur and other representatives of parliament, whose importance i recognize - keeps us hostage to the council's political veto. it will therefore retain the decision-making power of the larger member states. this suggests that bank resolution continues to run the risk of resulting from inferior political agreement or continued blackmail on member states with less power or weak budgetary positions. what the eu must have is a banking union commensurate with the needs of the union as a whole. unfortunately, we are being offered a system that will be abused by the powers that be.
in writing. - the adoption of this report reflects the progress made in the process of establishing the banking union, in the name of defending economic and monetary union and the euro, which, contrary to official propaganda, will not prevent the continuation of the injection of public funds to save the banking sector. on the contrary, it will add to the uncertainties and profoundly negative consequences which the portuguese workers and people are already experiencing today, resulting from the loss of sovereignty over monetary, budgetary and fiscal policy, and will seek to tie the country even more to a course which seriously threatens national independence and the right of the portuguese people to sovereign development. the solution to the problems of countries like portugal is not to lose sovereignty over this sector which is strategic for national economies, but rather to regain public control over commercial banking, to strengthen the control and supervision mechanisms in this sector, to restrict the so-called free movement of capital and to reverse the policies which, as summed up in the budgetary treaty, deprive the eu member states of the instruments of economic and monetary sovereignty essential to ensure economic and social development.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that the concept of a public utility service provider is not defined at community level and that the european commission itself does not always use it in the same way. the public utility service providers provide both universal services and public services, the latter also being defined in very different ways by the commission. member states also have different interpretations of the services that must be provided by public service providers. all this has caused real conceptual confusion, but all or at least most of the utilities have common elements. these are all services which are fundamental to life and to the social and cultural participation of people in european society. consumers cannot choose whether or not to use the service, but only the service provider. a hierarchical or subordinate relationship is thus established between the service provider on the one hand and the consumer on the other.
in writing. - energy, telecommunications, postal services and public transport, among others, are services with a particular impact on the lives of citizens, so that they are often designated as public utilities. the way in which we are collectively dependent on them suggests that consumer protection standards should be particularly stringent, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. the european union, the member states, service providers and consumer associations must coordinate and share information in order to better protect the interests of citizens. i hope that these services will gradually acquire greater quality and capacity to serve their recipients properly and abandon the quasi-monopolistic attitude they still assume in their relationship with consumers and their complaints. if good customer service is relevant in all companies, this requirement should be even higher for public utilities.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the community's energy policy. the rapporteur takes as a starting point that the benefits of liberalisation in the energy, telecommunications, postal services and public transport sectors have not been realised in some member states. on the contrary, as we know, the liberalization of these sectors has led to the dismantling of existing structures, to higher prices, to more complicated contractual arrangements and to job losses. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet. keep going straight into the abyss.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the directive ensures that inland navigation certificates issued under article 22 of the revised convention for the navigation of the rhine and union inland navigation certificates are issued on the basis of technical requirements which ensure an equivalent level of safety. however, due to the two different legal frameworks each with different rules and procedures, i believe it will be difficult to maintain the equivalence of the two certificates. i agree with this revision, as the objective of the revision of this directive is to allow progress towards a single and uniform set of technical standards, which provides greater legal certainty and, on the other hand, allows adaptations to technical progress to be introduced within a reasonable time, so as to ensure that high safety standards are maintained on all inland waterways in the european union. there is also the important objective of unlocking barriers to innovation in the sector that will improve the quality of service and passenger safety, as well as reducing the environmental impact.
in writing. - inland navigation can open up new prospects for transport, trade and tourism. if it can establish itself as a viable alternative to road transport, inland navigation could mean lower emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere and thus contribute to improving environmental conditions in the union. in order to make this alternative form of transport successful, it is important to ensure that vessels engaged in it have the appropriate technical characteristics to ensure the safety of their crews, passengers and cargo and to ensure that the requirements of their regulations are equivalent in all member states, so as to ensure that legal certainty is not also neglected. the envisaged european committee should ensure compliance with the rules and ensure that they do not unreasonably restrict inland navigation.
in writing. - i approve the present proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission. i welcome this proposal as it aims to ensure the proper application of customs and agricultural regulations. i believe that the regulation currently in force is lacking in a number of areas, which have led to a problem of considerable dimensions, as shown in the impact assessment carried out by the european commission. i note that customs officials currently have no means of verifying that the declared origin of the goods is in accordance with the route of the container in question. it is also important to note that there is abuse of the transit system which is monitored through documentary and visual checks which are limited in scope.
in writing. - the detection, prevention and investigation of customs fraud must be an ever-present element in the union's action. as the rapporteur, whom i commend for his work during this parliamentary term, says, there are serious difficulties in ascertaining whether the declared origin of the goods is in accordance with the route of the container in question and there is an abuse of the transit system which is monitored by means of documentary and visual checks of limited scope. the mechanisms to combat fraud should be streamlined and faster means of detecting fraud should be promoted. the scale of the fraud calls for a firm and concerted action by the union and the member states. i hope that the measures taken will lead to the desired effects.
in writing. - i approve this report, whereas, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and in particular point 4 thereof, the consultative group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has set up a working group to examine the proposal for a directive on the legal protection of personal data. the proposal in the following paragraph, submitted by the commission, was examined by written procedure and, taking into account the examination of the amended proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council with a view to codifying directive 98/34/ec of the european parliament and of the council laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and of rules on information society services, the advisory group concluded that the proposal under consideration is in fact a mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i approve this report in the light of the experience gained from the previous decisions amending the arbitration convention and the doubts raised by them. it should be noted that the specification of the date in the text of the decision may give rise to the risk that the decision will take effect at a later date than that fixed for the entry into force of the arbitration convention. this means that there is a risk of a retroactive entry into force of the arbitration convention, which could be avoided by setting the date of entry into force of the arbitration convention for the day following the publication of the decision in the official journal of the european union. as regards the date of application, the rapporteur requests the council, in line with the principles underlying the arbitration convention, to take into account in deciding on that date the time required by the competent authorities to establish the procedures appropriate to the effective functioning of the convention.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that, with regard to horizontal changes, governance and operation must be open, transparent, effective and efficient, and provide a wide range of stakeholders with the possibility of active participation in their specific areas. i therefore stress the importance of respecting the principles agreed during the horizon 2020 framework programme negotiations on ppps and what they should provide. the proposed changes to the governance of shift2rail are mainly aimed at implementing the new policy approach to ict agreed during the horizon 2020 framework programme negotiations. the amendments are aimed at increasing the transparency and openness of its governance structure. openness and transparency should not, however, be limited to the internal operations and governance procedures of the joint undertaking.
in writing. - over the last few years, the loss of attractiveness of rail transport has become evident and the need to rethink its design at european level and to fund research and innovation related to the sector has become apparent. i hope this initiative will bear fruit. the union needs viable and safe rail services so that they can be truly competitive and alternative, both for freight and passenger transport.
in writing. - in the present case, the decision of the riga regional court to pronounce the type of sentence sought by the authors is punitive in nature, since it clearly goes beyond the purpose of compensating for the damage allegedly caused by alexander mirsky's statements. the latvian court considered that a compensation of lvl 500 for each of the two authors is a sum which would dissuade the defendant from providing false information again and would also encourage him to perform his duties in a professional manner, in good faith and in accordance with the conditions laid down by law. this declaration is all the more intolerable because it seeks to set a framework for the future conduct of a member, despite the fact that article 2 of the statute of members provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy freedom and independence and article 3 (1) (as well as article 6 (1) of the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage of 20 september 1976) provide that [members] shall not be subject to any orders or instructions.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the italian authorities argue that economic activity and employment in the lazio region have been strongly affected by globalisation. in 2011, regional gdp decreased by -0,3%, and the data for the first half of 2012 show a decrease in exports of the main industrial sectors in the region (-28,3% for petroleum products, -19% for means of transport, -6,3% for chemicals, -0,7% for electronics products). total employment in lazio decreased by -0,2% in 2011 and by -0,7% in the first quarter of 2012. the unemployment rate in the same region increased from 8,5% in 2009 to 10,8% in 2012. in addition, the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes support measures aimed at reintegrating 1 146 workers into the labour market, such as vocational guidance/skills assessment, training, services to individuals, support for entrepreneurship, recruitment awards, participation grants.
in writing. - the delay in the assessment of the application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund concerning the application egf/2012/007 it/vdc technologies from italy is a cause for concern as it has entailed an excessive time gap between the redundancy of the workers and the receipt of the aid to which they are entitled. the 2012 application date and the employees of vdc technologies and one of its suppliers will only be made available this year. i hope that in future this mobilization will not take so long. i regret the situation of the workers involved and hope that they will be able to return to the labour market as soon as possible.
in writing. - this report aims to support 1164 workers made redundant at vdc technologies spa and a supplier in italy, totalling eur 3.010.985. again, these redundancies at vdc technologies spa and a supplier (manufacturing of television sets, television monitors and display units as well as air conditioning units) are justified by structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. in the legislature which is now ending, we voted for financial support for thousands of workers, always on the grounds of the crisis and the structural changes in world trade patterns. unfortunately, the policies that led us to the quagmire we are in are still the same, and it is not clear that the eu and the governments of the countries that are part of it have learned their lesson and changed their policies. it is up to the workers, the unemployed, the young, the people to continue to fight for a political alternative, the construction of which also involves voting to elect members of the european parliament next may.
in writing. - i approve this report, since the spanish authorities say that the jaén region, where the santana group is located, is facing a very difficult situation. the gdp per capita of jaen is 69.8% of the union average. the employment rate of people aged 16-64 in jaen fell from 56.1% in 2007 to 48.8% in 2011, when the number of people in employment went from 235 767 to 209 047. during the same period there was a sharp decline in the unemployment rate, which rose from 13% to 27.9% (from 21.13% to 48.6% for people under 25), while the absolute number of unemployed workers went from 35 567 to 81 153. in this respect, i agree with the much needed coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed. this financing will, for example, make it possible to take measures to reintegrate 285 workers into the labour market, through vocational training in the workplace, advice on business projects, support for active job search and matching of job supply and demand.
in writing. - a period of almost two years to assess an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund seems excessive to me. i would like the commission to have acted with a different degree of urgency, so that the needs of the santana group and its associated companies, which have been particularly affected in andalusia and in particular in the municipality of linares, can be addressed more quickly. the andalusian region has been particularly hard hit by the scourge of unemployment. i hope that the workers concerned will be able to return to the labour market as soon as possible and that they will make the most of the opportunities which the mobilisation of the fund will afford.
in writing. - i know . we have approved a report which aims to mitigate the effects of the dismissal of 330 workers in the automotive sector at the santana group and 15 of its suppliers, all of whom are located in andalusia, where the unemployment rate is much higher than the national average in spain. once again, the crisis and globalisation have further justified this attack on a basic human right: the right to work. we know that the real reason for the mass layoffs we have seen in recent years is the pursuit of more profit at the expense of lower wages and workers' rights. it corresponds to the need of capitalism to have an army of labour which accepts, for reasons of survival, to work in worse conditions and with lower wages. we are aware that the solution for these workers is not to provide temporary aid but to change the policies developed in the eu and in the various countries, and we therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, in addition to their direct function of protecting depositors, deposit guarantee schemes are also fundamental to the stability of the financial system, particularly in times of crisis. if bank customers lose confidence in their credit institution and simultaneously attempt to withdraw their deposits, the phenomenon known as a 'bank run' may not only lead to the collapse of the institution that is already in a precarious situation, but also spread to other credit institutions and other countries due to the widespread loss of confidence. indeed, no credit institution can maintain such a high level of liquid assets available as is necessary to secure deposits. i particularly agree with the european commission that, with a view to a common internal market, improvements should be made in relation to excessively long payment periods for reimbursing depositors in the event of insolvency and in view of the wide disparities in the financing of guarantee schemes in the various member states.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the proposal for a directive sets out a common framework of measures for the creation of an alternative fuels infrastructure in the union in order to end dependence on oil and to accelerate the decarbonisation of the transport system. this common framework sets out minimum requirements, including common technical specifications, for the establishment of an alternative fuels infrastructure. i therefore support the proposal that the infrastructure should have a mandatory minimum coverage for electricity, hydrogen and natural gas, for which market gaps require public intervention. i also agree with the establishment of two modes of transport - road and inland waterway - whose minimum necessary network cannot be developed without union support.
in the first place, the european parliament has not yet been able to take a decision on the matter. all the arguments are valid to legitimize and give credibility to the neo-nazi and fascist forces that seized power through the coup d'état in ukraine. those who yesterday enthusiastically applauded the manipulation of the struggle of the ukrainian people are the same people who now, faced with the demands of the same people, regard them as acts of subversion and terrorism, supporting the threats of the use of force which they call the right of self-defence by the self-proclaimed government. the resolution conceals the responsibility of the eu, the usa and nato for the situation of almost civil war into which they are pushing ukraine. they hide their complicity in the attacks and acts of intimidation against the communist party of ukraine and the attempt to outlaw it. nothing can hide the fact that the aim of imperialism is to intensify nato's military encirclement and provocations of russia, a move which is already being taken up by several other nato members to demand a greater military presence of this organization in their respective countries.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the technological revolution has opened up the possibility of installing retractable or retractable aerodynamic devices at the rear of vehicles, especially trailers and semi-trailers, but which cause them to exceed the maximum length authorised by directive 96/53/ec. this equipment can be installed immediately from the date of entry into force of this directive, as the products are already available on the market and are already in use on other continents. the same applies to aerodynamic and energy absorbing locking devices which are installed in the tyre area laterally and rearwards under the semi-trailer, other trailers and vehicles. these can not only considerably improve the energy efficiency of the vehicle, but also reduce the risk of injury to other road users. this directive should also encourage and facilitate innovation in the design of vehicles and transport units.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the financial crisis that started in 2007 has reached systemic dimensions, in that it has affected access to finance for virtually all credit institutions. in order to avoid a systemic collapse with disastrous consequences for the global economy, this crisis must be addressed through measures aimed at ensuring access to funding on equivalent terms for all otherwise solvent banks. the solution is general support for liquidity by central banks and guarantees by member states in respect of securities issued by solvent credit institutions. the crisis also caused considerable credit losses and other fragility in individual credit institutions that were threatened with imminent collapse. the lack of adequate instruments to deal with such collapses, combined with the fragile financing situation in the financial system in general, was a key factor forcing member states to rescue such credit institutions with public funds.
in writing. - this report is another step in a process whereby the states will lose the little or almost no power of control, regulation and intervention over banking that they still have, thus seeing even more limited the possibility of this strategic sector being placed at the service of economic development. by entering into an even broader process that they call banking union, recovery and resolution is a step forward in the process of subordinating political power to the power of big capital which, by deepening the central role that the ecb has in the process of concentration and centralization of capital and subordinating eu decisions to the interests of the mega banks, the financial system and their predatory interests, in a desperate effort to implement mechanisms that allow their shareholders to return to high profit rates.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in order to take account of the potentially harmful effect of inadequate remuneration systems on sound risk management and the control of individual risk-taking strategies, management companies of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities should be required to establish remuneration policies and practices consistent with sound and effective risk management. these measures should apply to the category of staff whose professional activities have a significant impact on the risk profiles of the bodies they manage and should include all employees and all other decision-making staff at the bottom or sub-bottom level. they should also include persons who have the power to exercise influence over those employees or other staff members, such as investment policy advisors and analysts, members of the management and any employee whose total remuneration places him or her in the same pay bracket as the members of the management and decision-makers.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that in my view it is essential to open the way for the ability to operate an account, and it is a priority to make banking charges transparent and understandable, so as to enable consumers to make comparisons and informed choices about their banking service provider. at the same time, it is extremely important to allow consumers to change bank accounts in order to protect their economic interests and to foster healthy competition between banking service providers within a genuine single market. previous initiatives at european level have already succeeded in improving the capacity of payment service providers to deal with cross-border transactions. many european consumers benefit from faster payments and cheaper transactions. another step forward is the comparability of financial services, which will facilitate informed and informed consumer decision-making. a faster process of change will promote lower prices and an increase in the quality of financial products offered to the consumer. i believe that supporting free and informed consumer choice and facilitating customer mobility is vital for the smooth functioning of a single market.
in writing. - the directive adopted today will harmonise the rules on the opening of payment accounts for consumers, in particular by removing the residence requirement imposed by the member states when opening an account. from today, european consumers will be able to open bank accounts in any country of the european union and will be able to do so with minimum and reasonable fees based on the principle of maximum transparency and access to information. another important step taken with this directive will be to facilitate the opening of bank accounts for all european consumers without exception and without imposing economic barriers and requirements based on the profile of that consumer, thus enabling all european consumers to be included in the financial system, regardless of what they suffer. i would like to conclude by recalling the importance of access to a bank account in our economy, particularly in that it reduces the existence of shadow economies and tax evasion.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by welcoming the work already undertaken by the european commission, which was initiated following a request from the council for the european commission to examine the consistency of the european union legislation applicable to the different types of retail investment products. in its communication of april 2009 entitled 'packages of retail investment products', the commission identified two areas to be explored: (1) the rules applied to sales; (2) the rules on the disclosure of product information. the proposal builds on previous work on product disclosure but is part of a broader legislative package aimed at restoring consumer confidence in financial markets, based on a thorough analysis of the insurance mediation directive. this initiative aims to ensure that consumers benefit from a high level of protection when buying insurance products and to strengthen the functions of the depositary of the ucits. in my view the review of the dms should explicitly address the improvement of the rules on the sale of insurance products for investment.
in writing. - from today there will be clear, transparent and mandatory rules for all investment products. this means that all issuers of such products are now bound by the same rules and that european consumers are better informed about the conditions and risks of such products. this directive is primarily aimed at investment products for retail investors. pension funds and products intended for such funds are exempted from this directive. so from today, small investors will be more protected by law, in particular because, in case they incur losses due to misinformation by the issuer, they can resort to the law.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that over the past few years it has been regularly found that the number of cases decided by the general court was less than the number of cases brought. this has led to a steady increase in the number of pending cases. the figures show, first, that the number of cases is increasing in a trend and, second, that the productivity of the general court has increased significantly following internal organisational reforms. despite considerable efforts, it is finding it difficult to cope with the increasing volume of work. it is noted that these figures do not include requests for expedited procedure or requests for interim measures, both of which involve significant resources.
in writing. - i approve this report, since i consider that the 112 service is still little known to the public. in this regard, it would be appropriate for member states to contribute to increasing knowledge of ecall 112 and its functionalities and possibilities through awareness-raising campaigns. in order to ensure coherence between the various member states, the commission should coordinate and support the organisation of these campaigns. i think the decision gives member states the possibility of filtering incoming calls in order to facilitate the work of psaps. manually triggered calls can be handled differently from automatic calls, making the service more efficient, which i consider to be fundamental given the nature of the system.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that high-quality digital infrastructures underpin virtually all sectors of the economy and modern, innovative society. i believe that high-speed broadband infrastructures are a prerequisite for global competitiveness and a pillar of the european digital single market. therefore, i support the objective of this regulation to reduce the costs of deploying high and very high-speed electronic communications networks by providing tools for a more cost-efficient deployment of new physical infrastructure, reduced administrative burdens, joint use of existing infrastructure and harmonised civil engineering works.
in writing. - the directive aims to facilitate and encourage the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks by promoting the joint use of existing physical infrastructures and enabling more efficient deployment of new physical infrastructures, so as to reduce the costs of deploying such networks. these measures to reduce the costs of network deployment are part of the establishment of a digital single market. furthermore, harmonisation in this area is considered to facilitate cooperation between the various public supply services and remove barriers to market entry for new network operators and to take advantage of new business opportunities, while also developing the internal market for the use and deployment of physical infrastructures for high-speed electronic communications networks. the report also calls for the development of a european telecommunications network, which will be able to provide a high-speed, low-cost electronic communications network. it calls for the development of a single market for electronic communications, which will benefit monopolies.
in writing. - i approve this report, welcoming the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the existing regulation so that the reserve funds can be used to provide more effective support to the inland waterway sector. this measure also creates a climate favourable to innovation and improvement of environmental performance, which i believe is fundamental. i think one of the characteristics of this sector is that its structure is largely based on smes, i.e. owner-operators who work and live with their families on board vessels. these smes are particularly vulnerable to the crisis and it is therefore essential to support the inland waterway sector with a view to maintaining and strengthening this sector. i would like to conclude by saying that, according to the rapporteur, the proposal has the unanimous support of the inland waterway sector, which reaffirms its importance.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of a new system of fishing quotas. the promotion of this should be a priority for the union and opens up a number of possibilities for the people living on the margins of the main waterways. i hope that the proposed amendments will allow for this revitalization and will work in such a way as to contribute to a greater use of this type of transport and its dissemination.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european commission's proposal is welcome at a time when the common agricultural policy is being transformed and when european producers are increasingly facing competition from third countries. in the economic context in which the european union is living, it is necessary to revaluate european union production in order to cope more effectively with the globalisation of trade, to increase market shares both inside and outside the european union, and to react to critical situations. the commission proposal should be improved to introduce in the basic act a list of the specific objectives to be met by this regulation, in the context of which smes should be given priority treatment.
in the european union, we have some of the best agricultural products in the world. some of them are true hallmarks of the countries and regions from which they originate. by referring to them both internally and externally, the union makes its competence even more apparent and contributes to increasing the potential for its products to become known and attractive. i hope that this use will be balanced and that it will not unduly benefit some member states to the detriment of others, but that everyone can benefit from its dissemination. i welcome the positive discrimination in favour of the outermost regions.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the projected increase in the number of people aged 65 to 80. in this sense, solutions must be found to active and healthy ageing and the consequences of demographic change, which is a major and urgent challenge for europe in the 21st century. moreover, it is also an opportunity for the development of innovative services and products that meet social needs and promote economic development and new business models. several initiatives have been emerging in the european research area to respond to the challenge of active and healthy ageing, including a european innovation partnership and the future creation of a knowledge and innovation community within the european institute of technology. i believe that the granting of funding through the active ageing, autonomous living and assisted living programme is justified and complements these initiatives. i welcome the alignment of the programme with the objectives of the european innovation partnership.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the horizon 2020 - framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) aims to achieve greater impact on research and innovation by developing closer synergies, increasing coordination and avoiding unnecessary duplication with international, national and regional research programmes. in my view, public-public partnerships, including union participation in programmes undertaken by several member states in accordance with article 185 of the treaty, should achieve those objectives, fulfil the conditions specified in the regulation, in particular in article 20, and be fully in line with the general principles applicable to horizon 2020.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that metrology the science of measurement is a fundamental element of our highly technological world. the overall objectives of the empir programme are to provide metrology solutions that support innovation and industrial competitiveness. i believe that metrology technologies can address challenges in areas such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy development and implementation. an important objective of the proposal is the creation of an integrated european metrological research system with critical mass and active participation at regional, national, european and international level. i welcome the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council submitted by the commission on the participation of the union in the european metrology programme for innovation and research jointly undertaken by several member states as an important component of the package on investment in innovation under the horizon 2020 framework programme.
in writing. - i approve this report as i support the overall objectives of the edctp2 programme to accelerate the clinical development of effective, safe and affordable medical interventions for the treatment of poverty-related diseases. i also recognise the need to work in partnership with developing countries, such as sub-saharan africa, to tackle the negative impact of poverty-related diseases, which affect a billion people and which, tragically, cause a huge loss of life. i also recognise the impact that the proliferation of poverty-related diseases has throughout the world and in europe in particular, where many of these diseases have been eradicated.
in writing. - the edctp-2 programme aims to support effective, safe and affordable medical interventions in developing countries to reduce the negative impact of poverty-related diseases, which affect millions of people, mainly in africa. this programme is both worthwhile and essential in a policy framework to support development and combat the spread of poverty-related diseases. however, i agree with the rapporteur that care should be taken in setting the objectives of the programme so that they are not susceptible to manipulation. the real objective of the programme is to focus on the discovery of vaccines, treatments and cures, as well as the development of better procedures and processes, and their implementation should be the measure of success.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that this regulation should provide sufficient safeguards against any abuse of the arrest warrant. in particular, the court shall order the creditor to provide a security to ensure that the debtor is compensated for any damage suffered by the debtor as a result of an unjustified decision. the amount should be determined by the competent court on the basis of the amount of the debt, unless the creditor has already obtained a court judgment which is enforceable in the member state of enforcement. the detailed conditions under which the creditor will be obliged to compensate the debtor for such damages should be regulated by national law, but member states should ensure that provisions exist to compensate victims of such abuses.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. the report proposes to strengthen the guarantees for the recovery of claims of creditors selling or providing services in more than one eu member state, by adding to the possibilities existing in all member states, as is recognised in the report when it says: in all member states there are procedures for obtaining precautionary measures, such as orders to freeze bank accounts. the creditor, which is always an undertaking operating in more than one member state, has some freedom of choice as to which court the deac seeks to have the debtor choose to submit to. given the difference in size between debtor and creditor, with the corresponding difference in resources between them, the debtor will have greater difficulty in intervening in the proceedings as they are designed and in bearing the costs of such intervention.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that the growing recognition of the role of corporate social responsibility can be interpreted and considered from different perspectives. on the one hand, the emergence of global markets encourages the development of social and environmental standards by companies; on the other hand, an increasingly alert and informed civil society requires companies to behave more responsibly. this dual drive to advance csr reflects the complementarity of interests between business and society at large. in this context, i believe that greater transparency in non-financial aspects can help companies to better manage risks and increase their competitiveness. at the same time, a better informed civil society can better assess and consequently support the business operations, products and services offered by a company. in the same way, potential investors can more effectively determine the sustainability and therefore the long-term profitability of their investments.
- the disclosure of non-financial information makes it possible to obtain a clearer picture of the actual composition of societies in terms of environmental, social and labour issues, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption. i hope that the requirements of transparency will have a positive impact on the life of companies and that they will not end up being a hindrance to their operation. i believe that such requirements should be based on criteria of adequacy and proportionality and should focus primarily on the fulfilment of the obligations to which they are legally bound, in particular those relating to taxation. i regard as harmful requirements which go beyond these limits and seek to impose on entrepreneurs business models and perspectives on society which may not be their own. companies are above all manifestations of the spirit of initiative and private inventiveness; they must not become vehicles or instruments of social engineering. i therefore call for a fair practical balance between the need for transparency and respect for this eminently private aspect.
in writing. - the european commission's proposal has the express objective of improving the transparency of social and environmental information provided by companies in all sectors where the average number of employees is over 500, and which exceed either a total balance sheet value of eur 20 million or a net turnover of eur 40 million. however, the outcome of the trilogue downplayed the most important issues in the proposal for a directive. the text adopted limits the application of the directive to public-interest entities and to public-interest entities which are parent companies of a large group, the average number of employees of which in both cases exceeds 500. the text weakens the content of non-financial information, in particular with regard to: information on health and safety, use of renewable and non-renewable energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water use and air pollution, actions developed to ensure gender equality, implementation of the fundamental ilo conventions, working conditions, social dialogue, respect for the right of workers to be informed and consulted, respect for trade union rights, among others.
in writing. - i am against this report. the phenomenon of globalisation has led to the restructuring of the organisational models of multinational companies, in which the temporary transfer of human resources to subsidiaries or branches of the group is becoming more frequent. this development of employment in the field of mobility requires reflection on the part of the european institutions in order to respond to the new challenges of the present and the future. it is important to keep social concerns on the agenda in this area, so that everything is done in the interests of human dignity and the preservation of labour rights.
in writing. - mobility and the free movement of people are one of the eu's trademarks. it is aspects such as these that set the european project apart from the rest in the global context. legal immigration has been a factor which has contributed significantly to the development of the european union and to the reduction of the population decline. however, it is useless to ignore the difficulties of integration of certain immigrant communities and how the uncontrolled influx of people can jeopardise the balance of europe's populations and the sustainability of their communities. workers from third countries in companies operating in the european union should be given easier access to the union as part of intra-company transfers. harmonisation of procedures can be of great benefit to all businesses. where they do not raise any safety concerns, it is understandable that these transfers are facilitated and can be expected to have a positive impact on the productivity of workers and businesses.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with the commission's proposal on the clean sky 2 joint undertaking as an important part of the package on investment in innovation under the horizon 2020 framework programme. i welcome the continued support of the union to the clean sky joint technology initiative. i would point out that many of the recommendations resulting from the first interim evaluation of the clean sky joint undertaking have been followed by the commission. in particular, i welcome the following aspects: the clear leverage effect in terms of private funding and the commitment by the sector to undertake additional activities, the improvement of the governance structure of the joint undertaking and the increased openness of public-private partnerships through the launch of competitive calls for proposals. however, i would point out that a number of points still require some adjustments to the commission's proposal. i recommend specifically changes to the following aspects: adaptation of the budget, harmonization and coordination with the horizon 202 framework programme, strengthening of the advisory bodies, greater transparency.
in writing. - the report approves the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the clean sky 2 joint undertaking with some amendments. this joint undertaking is a public-private partnership, in which the european union's participation takes the form of financial contributions granted, in particular under the horizon 2020 programme, for the purpose of research and development of innovation in the field of aeronautics, in order to minimise its impact on the environment. more and more companies in this sector are under pressure to meet this demand. this is a clear example of how public funding is used to satisfy and achieve private interests and goals, particularly because these companies have huge profits.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with the proposal for a council regulation on the bio-industries joint undertaking, presented by the commission as a key part of the investment in innovation package under the horizon 2020 framework programme. this joint undertaking builds on the experience of recent years in which the european union has funded a wide range of projects which have contributed to the development of bio-industries. the complex and transnational nature of this major research and innovation challenge requires the pooling of complementary expertise and financial resources across sectors and countries. the itc proposal will allow for the necessary coordination of the agenda and resources.
the bio-industries are extremely important. ppps designed for this purpose should not be confronted with or unfairly compete with existing ones, but should increase the diversity of solutions and foster different responses in the market. i therefore reiterate the rapporteur's concern that these should operate in an open, transparent, effective and efficient manner, so as to enable a wide range of actors active in their specific fields to participate.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting with the commission's proposal on the extension of the mandate of the sesar joint undertaking until 2024, as an important part of the package on investment in innovation under horizon 2020. this joint undertaking will continue the coordinated approach to research and innovation in air traffic management in the context of the single european sky. as regards the amendment of article 6, i believe that the sesar project needs to have a strict conflict of interest policy, requiring parties to declare the absence or presence of conflicts of interest. a procedure for dealing with conflicts of interest needs to be established, as too often declarations of interest are made which do not deserve due follow-up.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the innovative medicines initiative 2 will be the successor to imi-1, a joint technology initiative established under the 7th framework programme. i welcome the fact that this will have a different scope: it will no longer be focused on pre-competitive biomedical research but will instead focus on public health. in practice, imi-2 is broadening its agenda to encompass the whole innovation cycle, incorporating other life sciences industries and covering not only research but also the commercialisation of innovative medicines. as the second interim report on imi-1 states, there was a learning process, natural to any new scheme, which is reflected in this proposal. however, i believe that there is still room for improvement on some issues, including ensuring better alignment with horizon 2020 and promoting a more transparent, accountable and participatory governance structure.
in writing. - i approve of this report as i believe that horizon 2020 is well placed to build on the success of the 7th framework programme and to continue to support european research by investing public funds and mobilising private investment in a way that would accelerate the development of a genuine european research area. research stimulates innovation in all areas of life and is therefore at the heart of several horizontal union policies. the right investment would give new impetus to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, making the european union's economy a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting with the commission's proposal for a council regulation on the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking, as an important instrument of the innovation investment package under the horizon 2020 framework programme to help meet the challenges facing europe. the commission proposal provides for the extension of the joint undertaking, launched under the seventh framework programme, for a further period of 10 years. in my view, since its establishment, the joint undertaking has been demonstrating the potential of hydrogen as an efficient energy carrier and the possibilities that fuel cells can offer europe as energy converters to increase energy security, reduce harmful emissions and stimulate long-term growth.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by noting that in some member states there are legal provisions relating to the rules of professional conduct which specifically and objectively prevent law firms from registering in the transparency register and from the disclosure of information on their clients which is required by the transparency register. i do, however, recognise that there is a significant risk that these legal provisions could also be misused to prevent the publication of information necessary for correct entry in the register. i welcome, in this context, the apparent willingness of professional organisations to work together in partnership to ensure, in the interests of the profession, that this retention of information is limited to what is objectively permitted by the legislation in force. i therefore urge the commission and the president of the european parliament to ensure that this availability is put into practice and to incorporate this result in the amended agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by recalling that in its conclusions of 28 june 2013, the european council stressed that the social dimension of economic and monetary union should be strengthened, and highlighted in this context the key role of the social partners and social dialogue. therefore, the commission addressed the issue of promoting social dialogue at national and eu level in its communication of 2 october 2013 on the social dimension of economic and monetary union. in this connection, a valid proposal for a revision of the 2003 council decision was announced, which is based on the following statement: the tripartite social summit is an essential opportunity to involve the social partners in the european semester process.
in the european union, and in particular in some peripheral countries, there are very serious unemployment situations which have devastating impacts on the cohesion of communities and their stability. during my term of office i have been concerned to see how unemployment has risen exponentially and how, although in some countries the trend towards growth has slowed or even reversed, it still remains extremely high today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without closer relations and a better understanding of the problematic situations and among the main partners, it will be much more difficult to find appropriate responses and ways of combating unemployment effectively and promoting levels of growth capable of making member states' economies more sustainable. i hope that the summit will bear good fruit and that it will have a multiplier effect and generate hope and concrete solutions.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, in the context of general budgetary consolidation in the member states, the european parliament has finally decided not to challenge the global amounts (ceilings for commitments and payments for the whole period) unanimously agreed by the heads of state and government. it also did not contest the amounts by category, which showed a slight reorientation towards growth, employment and future-oriented investments (category 1). this acceptance was subject, inter alia, to the condition that the agreed mff ceilings for commitments and payments could be fully used when establishing the annual budgets. parliament has therefore proposed a new approach to flexibility. i believe that the proposed mff would simply not be manageable without the maximum possible flexibility, a concept which was referred to in the european council conclusions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her excellent work on this matter, which has been blocked in the council for more than six years. this is an important commitment and corresponds to an ambition to ensure a more social europe. fourteen million european citizens live or work in another member state and their rights to an old-age pension are already protected by european legislation, but this is not the case for supplementary old-age pension schemes. the increasing importance of these schemes and the objective of improving the income of pensioners require that supplementary pension rights be guaranteed when our citizens move to another member state. i therefore welcome the adoption of this directive, because it responds to two important challenges facing our union. first, the need to adapt pension systems to ensure their financial sustainability; second, the need to improve the mobility of workers to make economic growth and job creation in europe a consistent reality. it is not enough to say that we are a europe without borders. mobility between member states, which is still limited, needs to be facilitated. with this legislation we are taking a very important step towards removing one of the major obstacles to free movement and allowing european citizens to exercise more fully this right enshrined in the treaties.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my fellow rapporteur on the result of her consistent work on this important report. recent developments in our society and the economic crisis have shown that labour and occupational mobility in the union can make a positive contribution to reducing unemployment and filling temporary labour gaps in certain professions. the current rules governing this matter of posting are not fair because they leave room for non-compliance with labour law by less scrupulous companies and also allow room for legal skills, as exemplified by the creation of well-known post office box companies in member states with weaker social protection. adoption of the rules advocated in this report will ensure that the rights of posted workers are respected and that employers make the most of the potential of the single market. i warmly welcome the measures which will enable more effective labour inspections with national controls and the existence of lists which clearly identify posted workers. i also welcome the transparency and ease of access to information on labour rights and conditions in host countries, which will be available through a single point of contact and a single national website. in conclusion, i would like to stress that improving free movement in the european union must remain a priority.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal to the council to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial policy'. only in this way, in addition to other measures, can we create jobs and also, very importantly, put an end to the daily destruction of jobs. let us not be under the illusion that by creating segmented markets and sending labour from one country to another according to market needs we can promote social and territorial cohesion in the european union. this scheme, besides being inhuman, by forcing people to leave their country and close to their people, will only create more divergence with groups of economically developed countries and groups of poor countries and exporters of cheap or skilled or both labour. we hope, however, that the proposals we have put forward on the involvement of the trade unions in this network will be adopted today in order to improve the text.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am not sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. among the different goals we had, three stood out. first, to protect human lives by defining binding standards that include rescue and rescue actions. secondly, to guarantee the principle of non-refoulement. and thirdly, to ensure the security of our external border controls. mr president, we were stuck between a council which did not want binding rules and the european parliament's clearly expressed opposite wish. we talked, we negotiated and we came to a good compromise with the help of the european commission. it is right to thank the goodwill and hard work of the lithuanian and greek presidencies, which finalized the agreement, and the speed and flexibility of all the shadow rapporteurs who accompanied me throughout the process. it is a success story, this agreement at first reading on this regulation. we can congratulate ourselves, because saving lives is something that cannot be questioned, especially by any vessel that is in a position to do so. it was necessary to change the existing legislation in order to provide greater clarity and legal certainty and to overcome the difficulties raised by the existence of divergent rules and practices. the new rules will contribute to more effective surveillance of the external borders and to combating all forms of cross-border crime. the concept of border surveillance is classified as covering not only the detection of irregular border crossings but also interception, search and rescue measures, where frontex should help member states to fulfil their obligation to assist persons in danger by establishing legally binding rules that should serve as a basis for such operations. the possibility of push-backs at sea has been excluded and the principle of non-refoulement has been reinforced, i.e. that people should not be returned to their country of origin or to any other country where there is a risk of persecution, torture or other serious offence. we have established substantive and procedural safeguards to ensure that the disembarkation of rescued or intercepted persons respects human rights. the operational plan governing these operations now includes precise procedures for identifying persons, assessing circumstances, and providing information on the place of landing. to ensure that intercepted or rescued persons, in particular those in need of international protection, victims of trafficking in human beings, unaccompanied minors and other vulnerable persons, are identified and receive appropriate assistance. all these actions will be subject to greater transparency involving the european parliament. i believe that the european union has risen to the challenge and, within our powers, we have legislated well in line with what we claim to be: a europe of values. it now remains for the member states, within the limits of their exclusive powers, to follow suit and contribute to maintaining the european union's leading position in the defence of fundamental rights and respect for human life and dignity.
the rapporteur. - mr president, three final words. first of all, to thank all the kind comments that have been made on my report, but to stress that it would not have been possible without the help of everyone. we would not be here today if the greek presidency had not been able to overcome the blocking minority in the council. we would not be here today if commissioner malmström had not provided us with solutions when we got stuck between parliament and the council. and we would not be here today if the political groups had not been firm in their positions, had not shown the flexibility to find the consensus that was needed. secondly, as the minister has just said, we need more solidarity. this phenomenon is most acute in the southern countries - greece, italy, spain, malta, cyprus - but it has repercussions throughout the european union. a policy of responsibility-sharing and solidarity is essential in this area. finally, madam president, i think we can say that we have found balanced solutions, that is to say, we have not given in to the simplistic solutions that some people like to use in these matters, such as saying that schengen no longer makes sense or that internal borders must be fixed. we have found balanced solutions and, above all, we have proved once again that it is possible to reconcile greater security with the protection of human rights, and in this way we are honouring the values which are our common values.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that food safety has always been at the heart of the european union's concerns. ensuring a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain is one of the objectives of the treaty on european union, which over the years has produced a body of legislation comprising some 70 pieces of legislation that have enabled the european agri-food industry to achieve internationally recognised levels of safety and quality. i would also remind you that the agri-food industry is the second most important industry in the european union, with a total output of some eur 750 billion a year and more than 48 million people employed in the food chain.
in writing. - the mobility of workers necessarily implies that they can contribute to various social security systems. it is necessary that this mobility is not penalized and that cross-system compatibility is operated, ensuring the possibility of acquiring and maintaining supplementary pension rights. i hope that the european union will increasingly contribute to strengthening the capacity of workers to mobilise and that they will feel properly protected and adequately guaranteed and informed about the social rights they can enjoy and accumulate. a single market and the free movement of workers require such coordination between member states and appropriate levels of legal certainty.
in writing. - we should legislate so that our citizens can have a quality food. it is essential that we improve standards on health, animal welfare, plant health, plant reproductive material and plant protection products wherever possible and necessary. this is not only about the health benefits to consumers but also about the safety and confidence needed to run the economy that deals with these products.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission's proposal is extremely important for public health, since approximately 70% of infectious diseases are as common in animals as in humans. the proposal, however, is not aimed at protecting animals in the context of a health law, but at a law on the control of animal diseases in the sense of human protection. it deals with the prevention and control of animal diseases which are transmissible to animals or humans. it is important to emphasize this point (which should also be reflected in the title of the regulation, so as not to be misleading), just as it is also important to clarify that this is not an animal protection law.
in writing. - the importance of animal health for our food, the quality of our products and for animal welfare is of such importance that i cannot remain indifferent to it. animal health, in my view, involves a great deal of effort on the part of veterinary authorities and livestock producers, who every day try to make quality meat and dairy products available to us. the control and prevention of diseases, particularly those likely to affect humans, must be at the forefront of european concerns in this respect. all measures to improve european response capacity and the union's coordination with the member states are welcome. only by working together will we be able to achieve results that are commensurate with the health and safety ambition underlying these matters.
in writing. - the pests present in certain crops are quite harmful to production. there are ways to combat them: chemicals are used to prevent these pests from breeding or a manual weed is used, in this case only applicable to small crops. however, plant pest control sometimes proves difficult to combat chemically because it prevents some species from coming into existence, namely in vegetable products. the greatest difficulty is indeed in relation to vegetable products, and we must therefore rethink the funding of scientific research in this area so that we can reduce the use of chemicals. the commission proposal aims to update and improve the legal framework in order to protect the union from organisms of external origin which threaten plant health and to put in place control and eradication measures. i hope that the content of the proposal will rise to the challenge and that the union will not let down its guard on such a sensitive issue with potentially grave implications for its citizens, for agriculture, livestock and forestry and all related activities.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it to be intended to provide a consistent response to this fundamental and ongoing debate. in my view, it is indisputable that the effective functioning of the single market depends on two fundamental aspects: safety for consumers and a level playing field for businesses. i believe that only regulation and requirements can guarantee consumer safety. it is necessary to ensure safe products in order to stimulate consumers to buy more products in the single market. product safety is crucial for the effective functioning of the single market and therefore for the growth of european businesses and economic prosperity in the union.
in writing. - it is important that consumers can buy your products knowing that they are safe, where they come from and, where possible, how they are produced. for example, the pdo, doc or organic labels are important. a seal of this kind is usually a guarantee to the consumer that the product is of quality. the lack of safety of products would inevitably lead to a decline in their consumption and an economic setback with serious consequences for the union. even from an economic or commercial point of view, the focus on quality and safety benefits the seller and not just the consumer. i welcome all measures to improve product safety and the traceability of its components, to avoid unfair competition and misleading advertising and to prevent public health problems.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the report introduces the eu tested safety marking, which could help consumers to distinguish between ce marking (in accordance with eu standards) and ce + marking (in accordance with safety requirements). we welcome the maintenance of the article on made in in the regulation. its permanence is useful and necessary to enhance the traceability and safety of consumer products, and the indication of the origin of the product is mandatory. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the free movement of goods is one of the four pillars of the single market of the european union. this pillar and the smooth functioning of the single market ultimately depend on consumer confidence: european consumers need to have confidence that - regardless of where the product is made and the member state where they can buy it - the products they use are safe and compliant. efficient and high-quality market surveillance should be the ultimate guarantee of this. it shall ensure that products do not present a risk to the health or safety of consumers or persons at the workplace, and shall also ensure that they comply with applicable union legislation. therefore, it should be ensured that they comply with the rules specifying energy efficiency, noise levels and emission limits. however, it is becoming increasingly clear that market surveillance is not overcoming the challenge posed by the increase in imports into the european union and the increasing number of products circulating in the single market. that is why i think this report is important.
the free movement of goods is one of the pillars of the eu. the monitoring must be in place to benefit both consumers and producers. a more transparent and flexible market for all, from which all will benefit. for example, health checks should be a form of control of products, whether in the pre-processing stage or already processed, so that they are not checked when they are already on the market in order to hinder their sale. the purpose of the surveillance is also to prevent unfair dumping practices between member states. this will reduce asymmetries and make trade in products more equal and consistent within the union. market surveillance rules should be objective, clear and understandable and be complied with by all operators. their harmonization and the increase in measures to reduce risks are welcome.
in writing. - this regulation is included in the legislative package on product safety, focusing on eu market surveillance, with the aim of providing the authorities with more effective control devices. the report makes a clear reference to the precautionary principle, placing great emphasis on the obligation of market surveillance authorities to organise their activities in such a way as to maximise their effectiveness and to carry out sample checks to alert consumers to compliance and the risk thereof. another positive aspect of the report is the inclusion of the guarantee of authenticity or origin. ensuring traceability along the supply chain is important to determine the country of origin of the product and the responsible manufacturer, which in the case of imported products also defends european union industries, particularly the portuguese industry. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that commodity markets are totally different from purely financial markets. you can go a lifetime without being directly exposed to the price of stocks and bonds, but you can't go a lifetime without being exposed to the price of food or energy. commodity derivatives, in the form of contracts that set a price for future delivery, predate financial markets. i understand that commodity markets have arisen out of the legitimate need of producers and consumers of raw materials, agricultural products and energy to protect themselves from the influence of factors beyond their control on prices. however, the growth of financial markets has led to commodities joining bonds and shares as investment assets over the last decade.
in writing. - as of today, the rules on markets in financial instruments will be made more resilient, transparent and efficient. the european union has decided to review the rules on these markets, as in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis it was found that many of these markets were completely unregulated. in order to create more robust safeguards and avoid potential systemic crises, the category of organised trading facilities (otfs) for bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances and derivatives has been introduced into european law to ensure that they are properly regulated and apply non-discriminatory rules for access to the system.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that several exemptions from the scope of the mifid ii proposal may be misleading or not sufficiently clear. i therefore agree that some amendments should be proposed to clarify them. in general, i consider that non-financial enterprises such as commodity industries should not, by their nature, be fully covered by mifid. this approach is also fully in line with the commission's intention as explained in recital 88 to ensure that the activities of non-financial undertakings involving, for example, the hedging of production related and other ancillary risks should remain exempt. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary.
in writing. - as of today, the rules on markets in financial instruments will be made more resilient, transparent and efficient. the european union has decided to review the rules on these markets, as in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis it was found that many of these markets were completely unregulated. in order to create more robust safeguards and avoid potential systemic crises, the category of organised trading facilities (otfs) for bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances and derivatives has been introduced into european law to ensure that they are properly regulated and apply non-discriminatory rules for access to the system.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that it is particularly important that the commission should carry out appropriate consultations during the preparatory work, including at the most efficient level of experts, after having informed the member states of who will be consulted and how respect for impartiality will be ensured and possible conflicts of interest avoided. when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, the commission shall ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council.
in writing. - statistics on trade between member states provide a clearer picture of how they operate, understand their trends, identify potential problems and suggest solutions. the handling of statistics requires professionalism and exemption and must comply with transparency criteria. key actors should be involved in compiling and processing the information and making it available for consultation and interpretation. i hope that future statistics will be more reliable and more detailed and thus provide a better insight into the world of trade between states. i hope that these will increase and that the peripheral countries will see their share of european trade increase and will be increasingly able to compete on a more equal footing with the states at the centre of the union.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that every year since the financial crisis began in 2008, the european union has carried out an important systematic assessment of all stages of the trading cycle. this action is aimed at strengthening our financial structures and preventing future crises from occurring in the future, and is therefore essential. with the commission's proposal for a regulation on securities settlement and central securities depositories, we have managed to tackle the final phase of this process, which includes post-trade infrastructure and services.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that international conventions on maritime safety oblige flag states to ensure compliance with standards of design, construction and performance for certain equipment installed on board ships. the aim is to ensure the safety of the ship and its crew, while preventing marine accidents and pollution of the marine environment. the products covered include navigation instruments, life-saving equipment and fire-fighting equipment. the harmonised application of these standards by the member states of the european union is currently dependent on directive 96/98/ec on marine equipment. thanks to the definition of precise requirements and uniform certification procedures, the disparities that could exist between member states have diminished and i think it will be important that they continue to diminish progressively.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the nqf was adopted to fill in gaps in existing union harmonisation legislation, with a view to completing the single market with fair competition and safe products. inconsistent application and implementation of current union harmonisation by member states, as well as the existence of complex regulation, have made interpretation increasingly difficult. this makes it difficult for economic operators and authorities to enforce the legislation, leading to unequal market conditions and the placing of unsafe products on the market. in this connection, i agree that a package of goods should be introduced which provides the general framework for simplifying product legislation in order to make it more uniform and comprehensible both for economic operators and for market surveillance authorities.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that this change also affects the benelux court of justice, which is currently the only other court common to several member states. i fully agree with the main lines of the regulation proposed by the commission. nevertheless, it makes some suggestions for improvement in this draft report. it seems particularly appropriate to clearly define the scope of this change, which is not intended to affect either the internal distribution of work within a common tribunal or any specific rules on recognition and enforcement which may be contained in the agreement on the common tribunal. in the context of the specific legal framework of a common court, particular attention should also be paid to the rules applicable to third-country defendants, which are not, as a general rule, covered by the rules of the brussels i regulation.
in writing. - on 12 december 2012, the recast of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters was adopted, which is fundamental in that it allows for the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. however, following this approval, agreement was reached on the patent package, which creates a system of unitary patent protection in the european union and the unified patent court. as a court common to several member states, it has made it necessary to create new rules in the brussels i regulation to address the specific situation of such a court, which we are doing with the amendments we are adopting today.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that, due to the essentially european dimension of the ad hoc module and the administrative burden generated by the search for supplementary and variable information from one year to the next, eurostat has in the past encountered difficulties in obtaining the full cooperation of the member states and their national statistical institutes for the implementation of the module. i propose that the principle of financial aid to national public authorities for statistical activities with real european added value, as proposed by the commission, be supported. i would also point out that the european statistical programme 2013-2017 is already based on a similar principle of a reasonable allocation of the financial burden between the union budget and the member states' budgets. the ad hoc module of the fsi has an important european dimension and implies for the national statistical authorities a volume of work additional to their usual activities.
in writing. - the eu labour force survey is the survey of households in the eu. the results it produces on employment, unemployment and people outside the labour market are important for the statistical information system on labour markets in the european union. the national statistical institutes are responsible for the selection of the sample, the preparation of the questionnaires, the interviews with households and the transmission of the results to eurostat in accordance with the common coding scheme. the amendments to regulation (ec) no 577/98 are technical in nature. these relate to an adjustment in the list of variables of the survey and the introduction of ad hoc modules. the most significant amendment to our minds is the one on the funding, which states that the eu provides financial support to the national statistical institutes and national authorities for the implementation of the ad hoc modules. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by expressing my disappointment at the commission's proposal to keep the amount of appropriations allocated for the next seven years at the present level, with virtually no increases, since no account has been taken of inflation. these funds severely limit the implementation of new functions or, if they were to be implemented, would jeopardise the implementation of existing projects. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the financial reference amount referred to in article 4 of the proposal should be substantially increased. this is due to the fact that the proposed overall budgetary allocations for the period 2014-2020 are below the satisfactory threshold that would allow the agency to continue to perform its current tasks as well as to take on new tasks assigned in accordance with regulation (eu) no 100/2013.
in writing. - i approve this report, bearing in mind that unemployment is the greatest social challenge facing europe at the moment. in july 2013, the unemployment rate for the union as a whole was 11%, and for a number of member states it was above 20%. the europe 2020 strategy has set a target of 75% of active employment by 2020 and to have a realistic chance of achieving this target, we need to focus on how europe can create the right environment for job creation. i call on the european union, and the member states in particular, to play its key role in supporting business by improving access to finance, encouraging entrepreneurship and, above all, exploring new ways of creating the right regulatory framework.
in writing. - this report is of the utmost importance for the reduction of unemployment, especially youth unemployment. there is no doubt that entrepreneurship, the creation of added value by companies and the tax benefits they can enjoy are key to job creation. unemployment is one of the major problems affecting the eu and which the eu will have to tackle together with the member states. private initiative, the entrepreneurial spirit of the youngest who benefit from high levels of qualification and of the more experienced who have a very deep practical knowledge of the industries and professions in which they operate should be encouraged and it should be ensured that together they can make a difference. but the role of the states and the european union in facilitating this effort and in virtuously involving economies in order to boost their growth cannot be overlooked.
in writing. - i support this report because i consider that the uneven availability of digital infrastructure at union level is a second challenge. i believe that the solution to this problem lies in the use of european union programmes and cooperation between the member states and the regions. i am also concerned that the union may lag behind the united states and asia in the digital skills of its workforce. european education and training systems are still unable to integrate ict into their current practices. there is a huge gap between the everyday use of digital technologies and their use in education and training institutions. i believe that there should be greater cooperation between european educational institutions and that training should be encouraged in order to facilitate the development of oer.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, signed in 1973, aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild fauna and flora does not endanger their survival. the species covered by cites are listed in three appendices, benefiting from various levels of protection. whereas the council regulation also addresses the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling their trade; it lays down provisions on the import, export and re-export of specimens of the species listed in its four annexes, and on trade within the european union.
in my view, the preservation of habitats is of the utmost importance for the protection of wild species. there must be a general awareness of the relevance of this issue. it is important to increase the means of controlling poaching in order to prevent unregulated catches. i believe that we should think about the protection of wild fauna and flora in an integrated way and involving local communities, never neglecting the economic aspect, in particular tourism.
in writing. - the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an important instrument for the conservation of threatened species of flora and fauna, as it aims to ensure that international trade in rare or endangered species of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival by regulating the export, re-export and import of live and dead animals, plants and derivatives. the species covered by cites are listed in three appendices, with varying levels of protection according to their status. the success of cites depends on the effective implementation of the agreed recommendations. council regulation (ec) no 338/97 lays down provisions on the import, export and re-import, and intra-eu trade, of specimens of the species listed in its four annexes, the implementation of cites being at european level. until now, all the amendments made to the lists have been incorporated by means of commission regulations, but after the treaty of lisbon it was considered more appropriate to re-codify regulation (ec) no 338/97 in order to incorporate the necessary amendments, in particular in accordance with the rules of comitology. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), signed in 1973, aims to ensure that international trade in species of wild fauna and flora does not endanger their survival. the species covered by cites are listed in three appendices, benefiting from various levels of protection. council regulation (ec) no 338/97 addresses the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling their trade and also lays down provisions on the import, export and re-export, as well as on intra-eu trade, of specimens of the species listed in its four annexes. i voted in favour of this proposal from the european parliament which calls for the regulation to be recast because it needs to be updated under the lisbon treaty, replacing the old provisions with new and appropriate provisions (including updating the legal basis, i.e. article 192 (1) tfeu, which corresponds to the former article 175 (1) of the ec treaty), in particular as regards the comitology rules.
in writing. - i approve this report, bearing in mind that the economy of seychelles is based mainly on the fishing and tourism sectors. the economy associated with fishing activity developed in the 1980s, boosted by the signing of fisheries agreements with the european union and japan. over the past decade, fishing activity, mainly tuna fishing, has overtaken the tourism industry as the main source of foreign exchange for the country. in 2012, fisheries and related sectors generated revenues of the order of sek 4 864.6 million, or approximately eur 296.6 million, and contributed to 31,4% of the gross domestic product. direct and indirect employment in fisheries and related sectors (ship repair, maritime supplies, port services, fish processing, export activity) is around 5 000 workers, representing about 10% of formal employment in seychelles. in 2012, there were between 1 300 and 1 400 full-time or part-time seychelles fishermen. the european union is thus making progress in its development cooperation and policy at world level and at the same time enjoying the fishing opportunities offered by this island country.
in writing. - fishing is very important from an economic point of view for the whole eu. it must be done in a conscious way so that fisheries resources are not exhausted. we all know the importance of fish for human nutrition. in addition to opening up new fishing opportunities for european fleets, this agreement could help seychelles to improve its fishing capacity and maximise the sustainability of its fisheries resources.
in writing. - the present report, for which i was rapporteur for the european parliament's committee on fisheries, concerns the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and seychelles. the protocol, which will be valid for six years, provides fishing opportunities for 40 tuna seiners (22 spanish, 16 french and 2 italian vessels) and 6 surface longliners (2 portuguese, 2 spanish and 2 french vessels). the total eu financial contribution is eur 30.7 million, divided between eur 15.5 million for access to the eez, calculated on the basis of a reference tonnage of 50 000 tonnes per year, and eur 15.2 million for support to the seychelles' fisheries sector policy. this protocol allows the european long-distance fishing fleet to maintain its strategic presence and increase its fishing opportunities, boosting the european economy, contributing to the sustainability of fisheries and preventing other international fleets operating without environmental and social concerns from taking the place of the european fleet in this important region for tuna fishing in the indian ocean. i consider the protocol to be balanced and favourable to both parties, and i therefore recommend its adoption and vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that since 2005 the routes of tuna vessels have been altered due to somali piracy. the progressive expansion of the territory by pirate operations to the whole northern sector of the indian ocean and the seychelles coast during the austral summer monsoon has forced vessels to change their fishing routes considerably. faced with such difficulties and high risks, several ships abandoned the indian ocean. total european fleet capacity decreased by 25% between 2005 and 2009. in recent months, security has been increased on board fishing vessels and fewer acts of piracy have allowed vessels to move further north to the somali coast. however, fishing conditions have not yet returned to the level of the situation that existed before 2005. although the comoros has a fisheries policy, it has few means to implement it and to manage small-scale fisheries and support the development of fisheries. several development partners, for example from qatar, are currently investing in the comoros to set up fish processing units.
in writing. - it is important for the eu to develop partnership agreements of this kind. sometimes it's a way to help certain poorer regions of the globe that have an abundance of untapped resources. the need arises in order to avoid an overload of catch on the fishery resources of the european maritime area. i see it as an investment in preserving our own resources, protecting them and doing everything we can to increase the number of species. however, we must not forget that fishing is the livelihood of many families and communities throughout the eu, many of them the poorest. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries agreements are properly implemented.
in writing. - this report concerns the establishment of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the comoros. this protocol is valid for three years and provides fishing opportunities for 42 purse seiners and 20 surface longliners. the eu financial contribution is eur 600 000 per year, divided into eur 300 000 per year for access to the comorian exclusive economic zone, calculated on the basis of a reference tonnage of 6 000 tonnes, and eur 300 000 per year for support of the comorian fisheries sector policy. if the catches by the european fleet exceed that reference tonnage, the annual eu financial contribution shall be increased by eur 50 for each additional tonne caught. this protocol allows for the consolidation of the strategic presence of the eu tuna fleet in this important fishing region of the indian ocean, provides significant fishing opportunities for the european fleet and enhances partnership and cooperation for the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in comorian waters. i have voted in favour of this report because i consider that the protocol to this fisheries agreement is balanced and beneficial to both parties.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the increase in the reference tonnage is accompanied by an increase in the financial contribution from the european union. in addition, the increase in catches is in strict accordance with the best scientific advice of the indian ocean tuna commission. however, in the framework of this partnership agreement, as regards the use of financial resources allocated by the european union to the malagasy fisheries and aquaculture agency financing the national fisheries policy, it is essential that external financial controls are carried out in order to verify the expenditure declared. as regards the political situation in madagascar, despite the lack of political stability, the roadmap to end the crisis in madagascar, signed in 2011, is being respected and continues to be the reference framework for assessing internal developments in the country. the next elections will take place in may and july 2013 with the presence of european union observers.
in writing. - i welcome an eu-madagascar fisheries partnership agreement. in a global economy, we all stand to gain from open markets and increased trade, provided that the legitimate interests of local people and industries are respected, that creative ways are found to ensure the replacement of generations and even the expansion of fisheries resources, and that the european union's fish stocks and industries are protected. this balance is not always easy, but experience has shown that it is possible.
in writing. - this report concerns the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and madagascar. the agreement is part of a set of tuna fisheries agreements with several countries in the indian ocean. it will be in force for two years and will provide fishing opportunities for 96 vessels, including 40 tuna seiners and 56 surface longliners. the overall financial contribution to the protocol is eur 3 050 000 (eur 1 525 000 per year), corresponding to an annual amount of eur 975 000 for access to the eez, calculated on the basis of a reference tonnage of 15 000 tonnes per year, supplemented by an annual allocation of eur 550 000 for the development of madagascar's fisheries sector policy. the increase in the reference tonnage (more than 1 700 tonnes per year) was reflected in an increase in the eu's financial contribution (more than eur 328 000 per year). i believe that this fisheries agreement will help to consolidate the strategic presence of the eu tuna fleet and sustainable fishing in this important fishing area in the indian ocean, that the new protocol is balanced and favourable to both parties, and that the electoral process has contributed to the stabilisation of the political situation in madagascar, so i voted in favour of this report.
in the meantime, the commission has been working on a new programme for the development of the korean peninsula. the two partners, the european union and its member states on the one hand and the republic of korea on the other, maintain close relations not only for economic reasons but also because of the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law that they share in general. these close ties were already expressed in the 2001 framework agreement on trade and cooperation, which is now repealed for the entry into force of the new framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, co-signed on 10 may 2010 in seoul. in the new framework agreement, by agreeing to readmit their nationals illegally present in the territory of the other party and to provide them with the identification documents necessary for that purpose, the parties will strengthen and intensify their mutual cooperation. i regret the delay in completing the ratification process and have voted in favour of the proposal for the european parliament to approve the agreement.
in writing. - i approve this report and, in general, i welcome the strategic partnership that has been in place since 2010 and the significant political, economic and increasingly cultural cooperation between the european union and korea. this positive cooperation was highlighted at the 7th eu-korea summit in november 2013, which was organised on the occasion of their 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations. the importance of this relationship is underlined by the fact that south korea was the first asian country to sign framework and free trade agreements with the european union. i would also remind you that the new framework agreement is based on shared principles such as equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit and respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights and is comprehensive, intensifying political, economic and sectoral cooperation in various areas of political action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new framework agreement which is based on shared principles such as equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit and respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the agreement is comprehensive, enhancing political, economic and sectoral cooperation in the following policy areas: peace and security, conflict prevention and crisis management, trade, environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration and the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime. this agreement will contribute to further enhancing cooperation in responding to global challenges, an area in which korea and the eu have been playing an increasingly important role, notably within the g20.
in writing. - i approve this report, whereas on 24 september 2012 the council authorised the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the european union and its member states, with the republic of croatia and montenegro in order to conclude the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union in 2013. these negotiations started on 22 november 2012 following prior technical consultations with montenegro on the subject and the negotiating rounds on 25 january 2013.
in writing. - the accession of croatia to the european union has led to amendments to existing agreements with third countries and the conclusion of new ones for the same reasons. the republic of montenegro has embarked on a process of rapprochement with the union which should be welcomed and encouraged. the accession of croatia to the european union is a confirmation that the union continues to see the balkan region as an integral part of its territory and a source of potential future enlargements.
in writing. - following the accession of croatia to the european union, it is necessary to update some legal instruments. in these terms, i voted in favour of this protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i do so in the light of the favourable recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the approach suggested in the commission communication entitled 'general approach to enable enp partner countries to participate in community agencies and programmes' of december 2006 provides for the possibility for enp countries to participate in certain union programmes and agencies. this is a measure to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the neighbourhood. the council approved this approach on 5 march 2007 and gave the commission guidelines for negotiating framework agreements on the general principles of participation in community programmes with 13 neighbourhood countries on 18 june 2007. in addition, the intention to further facilitate the participation of partner countries in union programmes was reinforced in the joint communication of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy entitled 'a new strategy for a changing neighbourhood'.
in writing. - the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between georgia and the european communities entered into force on 1 july 1999. the protocol to the saa in question was signed on 12 december 2013 and its objective is to establish the technical and financial rules allowing georgia to participate in certain eu programmes. the protocol comprises a framework agreement on the general participation of georgia in union programmes and includes the standard provisions foreseen in such protocols for enp countries. participation in each of the programmes requires the drawing up of a memorandum of understanding, which must be signed by both parties. in addition, the participation of enp countries only concerns those union programmes whose statutes and objectives allow such participation. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol which will allow the gradual opening of certain union programmes to georgia or an increase in georgia's participation in those programmes, which will provide an opportunity to promote new cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links and improve people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation and strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that under the abovementioned decision portugal could apply to these products a rate of excise duty lower than the full rate of the excise duty applicable to alcohol laid down in article 3 of council directive 92/84/eec. it is lower than the minimum rate of excise duty on alcohol provided for in that directive, but not lower by more than 75% than the normal national rate of excise duty on alcohol. since this measure is intended to continue to stimulate economic activity in the outermost regions and does not have a distorting effect on the internal market, i propose that the proposal be adopted without amendment, pursuant to rule 46.
in writing. - in addition to being particularly characteristic products of their autonomous regions, these alcoholic beverages contribute to regional economies and generate employment. taxing them at a higher level could jeopardise their viability and further exacerbate the comparatively more difficult conditions affecting the outermost regions. the portuguese state was right to ask for the extension of the application of the reduced rate and the union was equally right to grant such a request, which is fair and fully consistent with the positive discrimination which the outermost regions rightly enjoy. i hope that new ways of supporting these regions can be considered, so as to enable them to develop their full potential and compete on the european market on more balanced terms.
in writing. - according to the explanatory memorandum of the commission proposal, council decision 2009/831/ec adopted on the basis of article 349 tfeu authorises portugal to apply, until 31 december 2013, a reduced rate of excise duty on the consumption of rum and liqueurs produced and consumed locally and liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed locally in madeira and the azores respectively, due to the small size, fragmented nature and low degree of mechanization of agricultural holdings, and to compensate for the additional costs incurred in transporting raw materials and installing equipment in these remote and island regions. portugal requested the renewal of that authorisation until 31 december 2020 and the commission concluded that the renewal is justified in order not to jeopardise the development of those outermost regions, as it does not distort competition in the internal market, taking into account that the tax benefit is limited to what is necessary to compensate for the additional costs. in this context, i voted in favour of this decision, given that this measure aims to continue to stimulate economic activity in the outermost regions without distorting the internal market.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that on 4 march 2013 spain requested the commission to prepare a council decision authorising the application of aiem exemptions or reductions to certain locally produced products in the canary islands during the period 2014-2020, amending the list of products and the maximum rates applicable to some of them. on the basis of the information gathered, the commission has confirmed that the special characteristics of the canary islands are detrimental to their development and are responsible for additional costs for the operators located there and that it is justified to maintain the iaem exemption for a list of locally manufactured industrial products. the commission considered that the measure is necessary and proportionate and does not compromise the integrity and coherence of the union legal order. since the measure aims to continue to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in an outermost region without distorting the union legal order, i propose that the proposal be adopted without amendments, in accordance with rule 46 of the rules of procedure.
in writing. - i know . council decision 2002/546/ec, adopted on the basis of article 349 tfeu, authorises spain to apply, until 30 june 2014, exemptions or reductions from the tax (aiem) on certain locally produced products in the canary islands in order to enhance competitiveness and compensate for the additional costs of production resulting from isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to stockpile, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped nature of export activity. in march 2013, spain requested the commission to prepare a council decision authorising it to apply exemptions or reductions from the iaem for the period 2014-2020. the commission confirmed that the special characteristics of the canary islands are detrimental to their development and are responsible for additional costs for the operators located there and that the maintenance of the aiem exemption for a list of locally manufactured industrial products is justified, considering that the measure is necessary and proportionate and does not compromise the integrity and coherence of the union legal order. i therefore voted in favour of this measure, which aims to continue to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in an outermost region.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that france has requested that a differentiated taxation system, identical to the one currently in force, be maintained until 31 december 2020. however, the commission considers that the examination of the list of products to which france intends to apply a differentiated taxation system is a lengthy process which cannot be completed before the expiry date of decision 2004/162/ec, which is set for 1 july 2014. given that this measure is justified and aims to further stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in an outermost region, i propose that this proposal be adopted without amendments, in accordance with rule 46.
in the case of the outermost regions, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the regions are not affected by the effects of the single market. it is extremely important that these regions should not be divided in such a way as to isolate them from the rest of the world or to hinder their development and economic progress. we must always be vigilant about these issues in order to avoid major problems which further jeopardise the objectives of cohesion within the union.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, given the importance of adopting specific measures in favour of the outermost regions, taking into account their economic and social situation and the existence of permanent disadvantages which hamper the development of these regions and fully justify this type of measures. in this connection, we support the authorization of the french authorities to extend a system of differential rates of excise duty for certain products manufactured in the french overseas departments (fod) in order to protect local production and employment from foreign competition. we have already said in the past that the temporary measures adopted in succession should be permanently maintained after 2014 in order to avoid the outermost regions concerned being confronted with economic insecurity every ten years. these schemes are extremely important for protecting the outermost regions, taking into account their specific characteristics. similar measures should be implemented not only in the outermost regions but in all member states, particularly in countries with weaker and more vulnerable economies, such as portugal, increasing and protecting their production and employment.
in writing. - according to the explanatory memorandum of the commission proposal, council decision 2004/162/ec, adopted on the basis of article 349 tfeu, authorises france to provide, until 1 july 2014, for exemptions or reductions from excise duty for certain products produced in the french outermost regions (except saint martin) in order to strengthen competitiveness and compensate for the additional production costs resulting from isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to create reserves, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped character of export activity. france has requested that a differentiated taxation system identical to the one currently in force be maintained until 31 december 2020. however, the commission considers that the examination of the list of products to which france intends to apply a differentiated taxation system is a time-consuming process which cannot be completed before 1 july 2014 and therefore, in order to avoid a legal vacuum, proposes that decision 2004/162/ec be extended for a further period of six months. i voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that in june 2011 the conference of presidents reviewed the format of the question time to the commission in order to improve its quality and liveliness. it was expected that the new format would undergo a trial period from september 2011 and be evaluated before the changes become definitive. i welcome the recommendations that have been made, namely that the number of commissioners participating should be limited, as a general rule, to two per session, with the possibility of co-opting a third, depending on the subject, and that in principle the conference of presidents should decide on the specific subject for debate one month in advance in order to ensure the presence of the commissioners concerned. however, a certain flexibility in this respect will have to be maintained in order to facilitate the planning of the plenary agenda. finally, the conference of presidents decided that the usual system of spontaneous expression of interest in the use of the word (catch the eye) would be replaced by a system of drawing lots, to be evaluated at a later date.
in writing. - i believe that members should have a wide range of opportunities to inquire into the other european institutions and that the latter should give them an adequate, accurate and complete answer. the amendments introduced should take account of the need for members to be kept well informed about european institutional activity and to confront the other institutions with matters of political relevance deemed to be of particular interest and relevance to european citizens.
in writing. - among the various amendments to rules 116 (question period), 117 (questions for written answer) and 118 (questions for written answer to the ecb) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the most important is the limitation of the maximum number of questions that each member may put five questions per month (there is currently no limit). we voted against these amendments, which constitute a serious restriction on the involvement of members in the other eu institutions. this instrument - questions for written answer - is designed to ask the various european institutions (the european commission, the council and the european central bank) about their policies. they also serve to present and question the european institutions on concrete problems, which are often presented to us in visits, meetings and debates, as the many hundreds that have taken place throughout the legislature. at a time when the european parliament is engaged in a huge propaganda campaign about the closeness of parliament to the citizens and when most of the members of this parliament talk so much about democracy and the transparency of the european institutions and, in particular, of this parliament, today's vote was a shameful example.
in writing. - i know . in june 2011, the conference of presidents reviewed the format of the question period to the commission in order to improve its quality and liveliness. it was expected that the new format would undergo a trial period from september 2011 and be evaluated before the changes become definitive. at its meeting on 17 january 2013, the conference of presidents discussed an evaluation report on the pilot period, prepared and presented by the vice-president with responsibility for the subject, edward mcmillan-scott, and decided to endorse the revised format of the question period, which continues to be held monthly over 90 minutes. i voted in favour of this decision amending the rules of procedure. the main changes are: the choice of members invited to ask a question by the 'catch the eye' method is replaced by a selection system which ensures full objectivity and questions are not put in writing in advance and there is no need to check their admissibility, except for those which are not directly related to the specific horizontal topic chosen.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that after having examined the case, the committee on constitutional affairs has come to the conclusion that the objective of allowing the european parliament to give opinions in the context of scrutiny of international agreements could be achieved by a very simple amendment to article 90 (4), as stated in amendment no 1. by extending the chronological scope of this provision from the duration of the negotiations to the whole process from the start of the negotiations to the conclusion of the agreement (before the start of the negotiations, article 90 (1) to (3) applies), parliament may intervene at any time to clarify its position with regard to the approval process to which it is bound. at the same time, other committees may be co-opted as advisory or associated committees in accordance with the procedures laid down in articles 50 or 51. it is proposed that article 110 (2) be left unchanged.
in writing. - the amendment to the rules of procedure is intended to make it more consistent with the treaties, so as to make explicit the need for parliament's involvement whenever the council decides to authorize the signing of an international agreement. i believe that this clarification at regimental level makes clearer the capacity of parliament to act, particularly as regards the times when it can intervene, and makes clearer the role of parliament as a full-fledged actor in the definition of the european union's foreign policy. the recommendations made by parliament should be taken into account and be a factor of consideration by the other european institutions in the course of the procedures for the conclusion and entry into force of international agreements. parliament must understand this power which it has and the powers now clarified in a spirit of cooperation and resist making it a potential brake on europe's relations with third countries.
in writing. - i know . in a letter of 29 january 2013, the chair of the committee on foreign affairs, mr elmar brok, drew attention to the fact that the rules of procedure do not currently allow other committees to deliver opinions on deliberations on international agreements, although the increase in the number of global agreements with a significant trade component makes it imperative that the committee on international trade be allowed to contribute to the definition of parliament's position. the author of the above-mentioned letter asked that amendment of rule 110 (2) be considered in order to enable other committees to deliver opinions. after having examined the case, the committee on constitutional affairs came to the conclusion that the objective of allowing the european parliament to deliver opinions in the context of scrutiny of international agreements could be achieved by a very simple amendment to article 90 (4) extending the chronological scope of this provision from the duration of the negotiations to the time corresponding to the whole process from the start of the negotiations to the conclusion of the agreement. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the proposal that amendments may be signed electronically as part of a pilot project involving a limited number of parliamentary committees. this is provided that the committees participating in the project have given their agreement on the one hand and that appropriate measures have been taken on the other hand to ensure the authenticity of the signatures.
in writing. - i believe that parliament should use the technological facilities at its disposal in order to make its working procedures more flexible, more efficient and to reduce costs. the use of electronic signatures could make internal processes simpler and faster. i am totally in favour of changes to this content, as long as they do not compromise safety, and i believe that, where technology is at the service of people and institutions, it should be used in a way that best serves them. i hope that these amendments to the rules of procedure will be implemented in a way which respects the wishes of members - that their electronic signature should be a statement - which does not involve additional procedural complications and which is subject to periodic evaluation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a european parliament decision on the amendments to parliament's rules of procedure to allow the use of electronic signatures, which states as follows: parliament documents may be drawn up, signed and distributed in electronic form. the bureau shall decide on the technical characteristics and presentation of this electronic support.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by recalling that the work programme for the activity under the budget line science for and with society points to an allocation of eur 53 million in 2014, although the draft amending budget does not provide for any appropriations for this line. i remind the commission of the commitment made during the budgetary trilogue of 2 april 2014 to immediately carry out an internal transfer to the science to and with society heading in order to ensure a smooth start of this activity in accordance with the work programme and as provided for in the legal basis.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 1 for the financial year 2014 concerns the latest legislative decisions and policy guidelines, including the immediate need to facilitate access to finance for smes. the main elements included are the adjustments necessary to implement the proposed capital increase of the european investment fund, the resulting changes to the legal basis for horizon 2020 and the creation of the budgetary structure for the proposed establishment of the shift2rail joint undertaking. it is true that a large part of the funding of this programme or even of the public-private partnership (ppp) shift2rail, which draws part of its funding, is not intended for small and medium-sized enterprises, since research and innovation in the railway area is done to ensure the research interests of the large multinationals in the railway sector, and what is said about the railway is said the same for the aviation sector with cleansky. the option of public-private partnerships is also evident here. we know what it means: public funding of private profits. we cannot therefore support this report because we do not agree with the vision and the model which underlie it.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), i voted in favour of this draft amending budget no 1/2014 which aims to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2014 budget.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that the regulation harmonises, clarifies and strengthens the common rules relating to noise on operating restrictions at airports in the european union, such as the prohibition of night flights. the rules, which are based on principles agreed by the international civil aviation organisation and known as the balanced approach, cover the assessment and management of aircraft noise and are designed to identify the most cost-effective way to tackle aircraft noise at each airport. it should be noted, however, that the regulation applies only to airports with air traffic exceeding 50 000 civil aircraft per year and does not establish specific noise limits, such limitations remaining within the competence of national or local authorities. i also welcome the initiative of the european parliament, which maintains the power of local authorities to decide on noise-related measures at airports, such as the ban on night flights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation which further harmonises, clarifies and strengthens the common rules underlying decisions on noise-related operating restrictions at eu airports, in particular the ban on night flights. the rules in question, which are based on the principles established by the international civil aviation organisation (icao) known as the 'balanced approach', cover in particular the assessment and management of aircraft noise and aim to identify the most cost-effective way of tackling aircraft noise at airports. the regulation applies only to larger airports with more than 50 000 civil aircraft movements per year and does not establish specific noise thresholds, which remain the responsibility of national or local authorities.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by recalling that since its creation in 1985, the european capitals of culture initiative has become one of the best-known actions of the european union. more than 40 cities have been awarded the title, which in my view helps to highlight the richness of europe's cultures and promotes greater mutual understanding and bringing european citizens closer together in building a european cultural identity. i would also remind you that initially the initiative was purely an intergovernmental action. it became an eu action in 1999 when an act was adopted that established the order in which member states had the right to appoint capitals, until 2019. it should be noted that this was amended in 2006 to take account of the enlargement of the european union in 2004.
in writing. since its creation in 1985, the european capital of culture initiative has become one of the best-known eu actions. more than 40 cities have been awarded this title, which aims to highlight the richness of european cultures and to promote greater mutual understanding between european citizens. in july 2012, the commission presented a proposal to continue the initiative beyond 2020. the proposal maintains the structure and content of the current initiative, including a timetable setting out the order of member states entitled to host a capital, the selection based on the submission by the competing cities of year-long cultural programmes specifically designed for the event, and the possibility for candidate cities to involve a surrounding region. i agree with the content of this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament, which supports the continuation of the european capital of culture initiative.
in writing. - i approve this report, since the council's position at first reading is in accordance with the agreement reached in the trilogues. i recommend that the commission approves this report without further amendments. while still taking into account the limitations of this regulation, which have been identified by the commission, i believe that the relevance and effectiveness of the provisions of the regulation on the protection of cetaceans should be reviewed by the end of 2015. on the basis of this review, i think the commission should consider submitting to the european parliament and the council a comprehensive legislative proposal to ensure effective protection of cetaceans, including through regionalisation.
- cetaceans are sometimes caught accidentally in fishermen's nets or traps, sometimes already dead. it is important that these marine mammals be preserved. to do this, we must look for joint solutions to prevent these catches, since some of these species are threatened or almost extinct. the necessary requirement for fishermen should not unreasonably compromise their fishing capacity or penalise them excessively where it is established that the catches were not the result of fault. on the other hand, when it is shown that catches are deliberate, they must be repressed and punished in such a way as to discourage them.
in writing. - the purpose of this report is to adopt, at second reading, regulation (ec) no 812/2004 laying down measures concerning incidental catches of cetaceans in the fisheries sector. the rapporteur believes that the document does not reflect the agreement reached in the trilogues and does not contain any additional amendments. in this context, the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts, for a maximum period of four years, concerning the updating of the technical specifications and conditions of use of acoustic cetacean deterrents to be applied to certain fishing gear. furthermore, due to some limitations of this regulation, the commission should review it by the end of 2015 with the aim of assessing the relevance and effectiveness of the current protection measures, the results of which could eventually lead to the presentation by the commission of a comprehensive legislative proposal to ensure more effective protection of cetaceans, including through regionalisation. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important element in improving specific regulation on this subject and in minimising incidental catches of cetaceans in the course of fishing activities.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that the posting of workers plays a vital role in the crossborder provision of services and in the development of the internal market. every year, around 1 million eu citizens are posted to work in another member state. this category of workers must be protected, especially in a time of crisis, when their potential and competitiveness allow them to maintain a certain level of employment or even help to create new jobs. our aim is to develop and improve the mobility of european businesses in the internal market, thus contributing to economic growth and stability in the european union. the freedom to provide services (as distinct from the free movement of workers) under which posting takes place is one of the pillars of the internal market and underpins the cross-border mobility of thousands of european companies. the guarantee of freedom to provide services is inseparable from the guarantee of workers' rights.
in writing. - posting of workers is now a common practice in european companies. the implementation of such measures must be based on criteria of real need and must take account of the impact they may have on the lives of the workers concerned. their rights must be respected and the social dumping to which subcontracting chains are particularly exposed must be avoided. i believe that workers from third countries are particularly exposed to this harsh reality. member states should be actively involved in combating abuses that undermine human dignity and the companies involved should be particularly punished. i hope that the measures to improve the adaptation of european legislation to this reality will bear fruit and contribute to a more transparent, productive, entrepreneurial and respectful labour market for those who make it possible.
in writing. - posting of workers plays a vital role in the crossborder provision of services and in the development of the internal market. every year, around 1 million eu citizens are posted to work in another member state. this category of workers must be protected, especially in a time of crisis, when their potential and competitiveness allow them to maintain a certain level of employment or even help to create new jobs. our aim is to develop and improve the mobility of european businesses in the internal market, thus contributing to economic growth and stability in the european union. experience in recent years has shown the urgent need for improvements to ensure better application and enforcement of the posting of workers directive in the context of the provision of services. i voted in favour of this document which presents new solutions, among which i would highlight measures for proper and effective cooperation between the competent authorities of the member state of establishment and the host member state.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the aim of the recast is to increase the number of restitutions of cultural property classified as national heritage. to this end, the commission proposes to delete the annex to the 1993 directive and to extend the time limits for bringing actions for restitution and for the limitation of the period of validity of such actions. another valid objective of the recast, in my view, is to approximate the laws of the member states as regards the conditions for compensation of the owner of the property to be returned, by assigning the burden of proof to the owner and not referring the matter to the laws of the member states.
in writing. - council directive 93/7/eec on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state was adopted to ensure the protection of cultural objects, including national heritage, when controls at the internal borders of the eu were abolished as from 1 january 1993. in may 2013, the commission proposed a recast of the directive, based on the evaluation reports of the directive, which indicate that since 1993 only 15 refund actions have been brought and of these only 7 have resulted in refunds. this does not mean, however, that few goods have been taken illegally. in fact, an average of 8000 property crimes were reported per year between 2007 and 2010, with a particular focus on france, germany, poland, italy and the czech republic. it is therefore clear that the directive had a limited effect. the purpose of the recast is therefore to make the directive more effective and to increase the number of restitutions of cultural goods qualified as national heritage.
in writing. - the directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state was adopted to ensure the protection of cultural objects, including national heritage, when controls at the internal borders of the eu were abolished as from 1 january 1993. at that time, fearing being overrun by refund requests, member states adopted legislation which was quite restrictive and well-founded. however, according to the commission, trafficking in cultural goods, including national heritage, has increased considerably in recent years. this trafficking is the third largest source of revenue for organized crime. the aim of this recast is to increase the number of restitutions of cultural property qualified as national heritage. to this end, the commission proposes to delete the annex to the 1993 directive and to extend the time limits for bringing actions for restitution and for the limitation of the period of validity of such actions. i have voted in favour of this procedure because i agree with the amendments.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the excessive consumption of single-use plastic bags is not only extremely inefficient from the point of view of resources, but also has negative consequences for the environment. every year, 8 billion plastic bags end up as waste in the european union, including in the sea. despite the increase in resource prices, the current recycling rate for plastic bags is estimated to be only 6,6% and is unlikely to increase significantly in the coming years. because they are so thin and light, plastic bags have little recycling value. increasing the number of recycled plastic bags is also not a solution to the problem. although 39 percent of plastic bags are incinerated, one in two plastic bags is sent to landfill, where it is blown away by the wind and dispersed into the environment. landfills are usually considered the worst option. prevention is clearly the best solution, limiting the use of plastic bags, presenting greener alternatives.
in writing. - the initial proposal from the european commission is a long way from what the rapporteur wants to see adopted today. the commission proposal was simple and aimed at creating incentives for the gradual reduction of plastic bags under 50 micrometres and in accordance with the use made of them by each member state. the aim was to reduce the consumption of these very thin bags, which are being used less and less in favour of stronger and more durable bags, and which tend to increase the levels of waste. the european commission's objective was not, and never was, to eliminate the use of plastic bags altogether, let alone to extend the scope of the directive to the point of legislating on which products may or may not be found in food transport packaging. i therefore condemn the rapporteur's distortion of the commission's proposal, using unsubstantiated information to support her actions and thereby putting at risk various sectors of our economy.
in writing. - the need to reduce the use of plastic bags excessive and resulting from poor economic choices is evident. this can be achieved by campaigns to raise awareness and environmental awareness, by encouraging the repackaging or re-transport of goods marketed by the various sectors and by calling on member states to promote the use of alternatives. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this report advocates the application of the polluter pays principle, understood here as the reservation of the right to pollute to those who can pay for it. pollution is no less harmful if someone pays more or less. further research and development of solutions to avoid the harm associated with plastic bags by replacing them in their various uses should be pursued. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the community, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat the pollution of the environment.
in the european union, the consumption of plastic bags is excessive. nearly 100 billion plastic bags are consumed each year, a number that is expected to increase to 111 billion by 2020 if no action is taken to reduce them by then. this means that on average, each european uses 200 plastic bags in the course of a year. inefficient use of resources and cross-border environmental pollution are common challenges to all eu member states and require a common approach. a consultation carried out by the european commission in 2011 revealed that european citizens would strongly support an intervention at union level to tackle the problem of single-use plastic bags. this is not yet the case in the present proposal from the european commission, which does not call for any action at european level. in any case, this is an important milestone in the development of significant legislative action against the unnecessary use of plastic bags and it deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by recalling that over the last decade the mediterranean region has been affected by a series of geopolitical and economic events at international and regional level, which have given rise to political instability and contributed to the increase in migratory flows and the pressure on asylum seekers from the countries bordering the southern shores of the mediterranean. this phenomenon was particularly strong in the countries on the northern shores, particularly in the southern member states of the european union located on the geographical periphery, such as greece, italy, spain, malta and cyprus. the southern eu member states were suddenly confronted with the arrival of large numbers of people from the mediterranean region, in an attempt to escape conflict and persecution or simply to find new life opportunities, using the sea route to cross international borders clandestinely. i think it is essential to find solutions to this scourge and to create a joint policy for the surveillance of maritime borders to deal with everything from prevention to the management of illegal immigration in these conditions.
in the case of the mediterranean, the european union has been faced with enormous migratory pressures. these have not only shocked the world - because of the many deaths in the fruitless and illegal attempts to reach european shores, which i cannot but regret with vehemence and sadness - but have also revealed the urgent need to monitor them properly. just as the need to try to contain this illegitimate pressure on european shores cannot be ignored, so too must the fundamental rights of migrants, including illegal ones, be taken into account and a system of surveillance be set up to deter their aims without compromising their dignity. this balancing of rights is difficult and requires not only legislative balance and consideration on the part of policy-makers, but also, and perhaps above all, training and humanity on the part of the agents who actually carry out the difficult task of surveillance. i hope that the proposed system will achieve the results it seeks, with full awareness of the extreme difficulty and enormous pressure it will face.
in writing. - the need to protect our borders and to have an efficient border surveillance system should not jeopardise the respect for the fundamental rights of migrants arriving on european shores. the right to life, which these migrants risk, is at the heart of fundamental rights and it is up to the european union and its member states to ensure that it is fully implemented and respected. it is essential to provide greater legal clarity on fundamental rights in the context of maritime surveillance and the disembarkation of persons intercepted or rescued at sea. in this respect, i voted in favour of this proposal, which contains a number of amendments tabled by the european parliament with the aim of strengthening the protection of human rights, in which it is stressed that all member states involved in these operations are subject to the rights and obligations arising from international and union law, including the relevant case law. i would add that the european union must quickly re-examine its policy on the reception of illegal immigrants and support for the member states which receive the most illegal immigrants, the safest and most lasting solutions being to help create living and working conditions in the regions of origin of these immigrants.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in cases where this is justified, future investment protection agreements concluded by the union may include a mechanism for the settlement of disputes between investors and the state. this will allow a third country investor to bring a complaint against a state in which he has made an investment. the settlement of disputes between investors and the state may result in a judgment providing for the payment of monetary compensation. in addition, significant costs of administering the arbitration as well as costs relating to the defence of a case will inevitably be borne in any event. i think this report is important in that it imposes responsibility and creates a more transparent system.
in writing. - the ability to settle properly and in good time disputes brought to its attention is an essential characteristic of any legal system worthy of the name and at least functional. without such functionality and responsiveness, legal certainty is diminished and this diminishment has obvious effects on the economy. given that the union has acquired powers under the lisbon treaty to conclude international agreements on investment protection, i believe that the establishment of a framework for the management of financial liability in relation to dispute resolution courts is justified. this framework should not serve as a deterrent or a brake on investment, thanks to stricter rules than those applied by the member states, and it can allow the much-needed legal certainty to be guaranteed to all the actors involved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the diploma on the distribution of powers and responsibilities between the eu and the member states in the event of disputes arising from foreign investors (zalewski report) because, despite some unsatisfactory solutions, it fills a major gap in the union's legal framework for foreign investment. since the treaty of lisbon has conferred on the union political and legislative competence in the field of foreign investment (which previously belonged to the member states), it is necessary to lay down the rules for determining who is liable and who is responsible in the event of a complaint by a foreign investor, where the eu's external investment agreements provide for such a possibility (so-called investor to state dispute settlement or isds). it is the case that the union has already negotiated or is negotiating several foreign investment agreements which include or may include the isds mechanism (in the case of canada, singapore, japan, the united states and china), and it was therefore essential to regulate the issue of the division of responsibility between the eu and the member states.
in writing. - the central organising principle of this regulation is that the financial responsibility arising from investor-state dispute settlement proceedings should be assigned to the agent who granted the disputed treatment. this means that in cases where the treatment in question is granted by the union institutions, the financial responsibility should lie with the union institutions; in cases where the treatment in question is granted by a member state of the european union, the financial responsibility shall lie with that member state. only where the actions of the member state are required by union law should the financial responsibility be borne by the union. in this context, i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the management of financial liability in relation to investor-state dispute settlement bodies set up by international agreements to which the european union is a party.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission's proposal to modernise anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations involves four key changes: (1) the elimination of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where there are structural distortions at the level of raw materials and in all anti-subsidy cases; (2) the obligation for union producers to cooperate in ex officio investigations; (3) the reimbursement of duties collected during expiry reviews; (4) and the two-week advance notification in relation to the introduction of provisional duties, commonly referred to as the transport clause. the commission's justification is based on three objectives: (1) to increase the effectiveness of the instruments; (3) to reduce the threat of retaliation by third countries; (3) and to increase transparency and predictability. i welcome these three objectives and believe that they should be combined to maintain public confidence in the instruments.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. however, it must bear in mind the existence of two competing european interests: that of producers and that of importers. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of turkey. the desired modernisation of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy legislation should contribute to strengthening european capacity in this area and to protecting market players in an appropriate and proportionate manner. i hope that this modernisation will take account of the real needs of the european economy, its businesses and consumers.
in writing. - the present commission proposal, which aims to modernise anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations, involves four key changes: the elimination of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where there are structural distortions at the level of raw materials and in all anti-subsidy cases; the obligation for union producers to cooperate in ex officio investigations; the reimbursement of duties collected during expiry reviews; and the notification two weeks in advance of the introduction of provisional duties, usually referred to as the transport clause. i voted in favour of this proposal, which is based on three objectives: to increase the effectiveness of the instruments, to reduce the threat of retaliation by third countries and to increase transparency and predictability. parliament welcomes these three objectives and believes that they should be combined in order to maintain public confidence in the instruments.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the development of european political parties is essential for mobilising the public interest in european union affairs. the design of a reform package for european political parties, which mobilises the democratic energies of individual citizens and citizens' organisations, is not an easy task, especially given the complexity of the eu system. however, this disadvantage could be turned into an advantage if the 'constitutive mission' of european political parties is clarified and how an informed and serious dialogue on their political development can contribute to the emergence of a pluralist democracy. i very much welcome the establishment of a special and uniform european legal status for european political parties, especially for reasons of organisational convergence of european political parties.
in writing. - i know . the establishment of a european legal status for european political parties may allow them, to paraphrase jacques delors, to abandon their nature as unidentified political objects and to see their creation and existence more densified in the light of the legal precepts that inform them. i am afraid that the way in which european political parties are supposed to be able to campaign on european issues in the member states is not bringing them closer to the citizens but is creating confusion between the different levels of the european political system, which may not be beneficial either for european or national parties and may also introduce a clear ideologically based inequality of opportunity. i hope that the status of european political parties can help to improve the way in which they are perceived by public opinion and thus change the way in which they operate in the european framework, by increasing their degree of interaction with national parties and fostering greater cooperation between them. since they are not the same type of party as national parties, european parties should not seek to imitate or replace them; they have a more modest but no less important role to play.
in writing. - the new law on european political parties, which has now been adopted (the giannakou report), is a significant contribution to the construction of a genuine eu political system. by conferring legal personality under european law on european political parties and by establishing a european mechanism for registration (and possible withdrawal from registration), the new diploma confers constitutional legitimacy and increased political visibility on them. as european political parties take on a new political role by presenting candidates for the presidency of the european commission in the forthcoming elections to the european parliament, this new constitutional status culminates the efforts made in this legislature to deepen the political integration of the union and to create the conditions for a genuine european parliamentary democracy, which obviously cannot do without transnational political parties.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the european parliament's role in the european union. the design of a reform package for european political parties, which mobilises the democratic energies of individual citizens and citizens' organisations, is not an easy task, especially given the systemic complexity of the eu. however, this disadvantage could be turned into an advantage if the constitutive mission of european political parties is clarified and how an informed and serious dialogue on their political development can contribute to the emergence of a pluralist democracy. i voted in favour of this report, which establishes a special and uniform european legal status for european political parties, mainly because of the organisational convergence of european political parties.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. they are, however, still far from fulfilling their full role under the treaties, particularly in their capacity to contribute to the creation of a european consciousness. nevertheless, it would be unfair to disregard their importance and influence and unwise not to expect them to follow clear and transparent rules on their funding. i hope that these rules will not only be clear and transparent but will not allow any kind of discrimination or ideological favouritism. the means and forms of financing of these parties, their legality and their verifiability are necessary conditions for the european political level to enjoy the good name and authority without which the exercise of politics is not possible or at least desirable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission proposal for a regulation amending the financial regulation as regards the financing of european political parties and accompanying the commission proposal for a regulation on the statute and financing of european political parties and european political foundations. this is to integrate many of the requests contained in parliament's resolution of 6 april 2011, both proposals effectively addressing the shortcomings of the current general framework and others addressing the system of financing of political parties and political foundations at union level. the new legal bases will enable political parties to play their role effectively, as provided for in the treaties: to form european political awareness and to express the will of the citizens of the union.
in writing. - i approve this report and support the updating of the commission proposal for the revision of the financial regulation with a view to making the necessary amendments as a result of the negotiations on the new mff. this initiative is in line with the joint statement made in the context of the triannual review of the financial regulation adopted in 2012. however, i regret that despite the strong appeal of parliament, the negotiations failed to reach an agreement on the budgetary integration of the edf during the negotiations on the 2014-2020 mff. i note that the commission intends to propose the edf budget from 2021 onwards, as explicitly mentioned in the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, in particular with a view to strengthening democratic control of development policy.
in writing. - in the context of the negotiations on the financial regulation, which were concluded at the end of 2012, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed to revise the financial regulation in order to take account of the outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for the revision of the financial regulation with a view to making the necessary amendments as a result of the negotiations on the new mff, in accordance with the joint statement made in the context of the triennial review of the financial regulation adopted in 2012. the commission is also proposing to extend the period of validity of the eu-us joint action on the fight against illicit trafficking in tobacco products to the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the shipping sector plays a key role in the european economy. the sector is responsible for a large part of the international transport of goods between the european union and the rest of the world, and contributes significantly to the intra-community transport of goods. according to the publication eu transport in figures 2012, in 2010, maritime freight transport in the eu-27 accounted for approximately 1.4 billion tonne-kilometres, second only to road transport. the union-wide maritime passenger transport is less relevant in terms of the number of passengers carried, but it remains an important mode of transport in regions whose geographical characteristics limit the use of other means of transport, such as islands.
in writing. - the eu's targets to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 (and ideally by 30%), and the 2011 transport white paper which includes a 40% reduction in co2 emissions from shipping from 2005 levels by 2050, require policies to be implemented in this direction. given the sector's dependence on the combustion of fossil fuels, its emissions contribute to air pollution and climate change. the quantities of co2 and other ghg related to maritime transport are still unknown today, mainly due to the lack of monitoring and reporting of these data. this report presents a monitoring, reporting and verification system which serves the purpose of providing better information, not only on the amount of ghg emissions that are produced by this type of transport, but which will allow concrete data to be obtained and policies to be developed to reduce emissions. this proposal for a regulation goes beyond the monitoring of co2 and adds to the list other ghgs and gases emitted which are also harmful to port cities and the population. this regulation will apply only to vessels between 400 gt and 5 000 gt (gt gross tonnage), covering more vessels. we voted in favour.
in writing. - this report is of the utmost importance for shipping as it is the first step towards the creation of a market-based regime for co2 emissions. i voted in favour of the amendment tabled by a group of meps which aims to exclude island cabotage, i.e. the transport of passengers and persons by sea between ports on the mainland and one or more islands in the same member state, and between ports on islands in the same member state. i do so in the belief that simply applying the proposed scheme would be discriminatory and would impose excessive costs on island regions, which already have only sea and air transport as their gateway. since this amendment did not pass, i voted against this legislative resolution of the european parliament on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending regulation (eu) no 525/2013.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that exotic species are transported out of their natural range through ecological barriers by direct or indirect human action. some of these species can't adapt to their new environment and die quickly, but others can survive, reproduce and spread. only 11% of the more than 12 000 exotic species recorded in europe have an impact on biodiversity and ecosystems, while 13% have some kind of economic impact. however, their effects on biodiversity are significant and invasive alien species are considered the second most important factor in biodiversity loss, second only to habitat loss. given that invasive alien species are recognised as one of the main causes of species extinction, measures should be taken to prevent and manage such situations by avoiding harmful consequences for biodiversity and ecosystems.
in writing. - the release of exotic species into the environment can lead to their proliferation and constitute a threat to indigenous species, with a negative impact on biodiversity and the balance of ecosystems. invasive species are a serious problem in virtually all regions of the world, a process associated with anthropogenic action that has become so acute that it has assumed the dimension of a global crisis, generating extensive negative repercussions on the ecological balance, the economy, agriculture, society, in particular through health problems, and culture. in the eu alone, losses due to invasive alien species are estimated at at least €12 billion per year, which is why the european commission is presenting a proposal for a regulation establishing a list of invasive alien species and the framework for action to tackle this problem. the proposal voted on today has some positive aspects. the commission proposal limited the list of species to 50 and prohibited all trade and marketing of species from this list. this proposal does not limit the number of species and, moreover, takes into account that a species native to one member state may be invasive in another. the importance of emerging species and those with the potential to cause significantly greater damage is highlighted. we voted in favour. we will continue to monitor this matter.
- exotic species are transported out of their natural range through ecological barriers by direct or indirect human action. some of these species fail to adapt to their new environment and die quickly, but others survive, reproduce and spread and even become pests, eliminating endogenous biodiversity. i voted in favour of this proposal, which is based on three key principles: prevention, prioritisation and coordination. prevention aims to reduce the number of new invasive alien species entering the eu, thereby avoiding increased threats to biodiversity and negative impacts on society and the economy. priority setting allows for effective action by focusing resources on the worst invasive alien species, i.e. where the greatest benefits for biodiversity and for society and the economy can be achieved. acting in a coherent and coordinated way across the eu will increase the effectiveness of actions at eu level, i.e. preventing actions in one member state from being undermined by lack of action in another member state.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020. this protocol includes legally binding emission reduction commitments whereby the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year. in addition, the doha amendment introduced the following changes to the kyoto protocol: first, the inclusion of a new gas; second, an ambition mechanism that provides for a simplified procedure to allow a party to adjust its commitment by increasing its ambition over a commitment period; third, a provision that automatically adjusts a party's objective to avoid an increase in its emissions in the period from 2013 to 2020 beyond its average emissions for the years 2008 to 2010.
in writing. - it is fair to say that the kyoto protocol has not achieved the purpose for which it was created and that not all its signatories have shown the same zeal in its implementation. regardless of the more or less extreme positions that are taken regarding the cause and consequences of climate change and the real global impact of measures taken by human populations, i believe that a change in attitude towards the way we understand the environment must take place, otherwise we will reduce the chances of leaving our children a planet in good habitable conditions. it is worthwhile to insist that men cannot use and abuse the natural resources at their disposal, but must assume the role of guardians and protectors, good stewards of a common heritage. i hope that more states will understand the urgency of this paradigm shift and undertake the structural changes needed to translate this understanding into concrete action.
in writing. - the objective of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is to create the basis for the adoption of the necessary technical rules to ensure the implementation of the kyoto protocol in the european union after 2012, allowing for the effective functioning of the joint fulfilment of commitments by the union, its member states and iceland, and to ensure its harmonisation with the functioning of the eu ets and the effort sharing decision. those rules should cover a number of issues, including the establishment and maintenance of a previous period surplus reserve (repa) and a commitment period reserve (cpr) for each member in the joint fulfilment agreement, as well as the accounting for a fee on revenues following the issuance of erus and the first international transfer of aaus in the second commitment period. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning by welcoming the commission's proposal for a directive on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union by means of criminal law. in particular, i share the view that fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union are a serious problem that harms the union budget and therefore the taxpayers, who call for public funds from the european institutions to be channelled towards structural growth, fiscal consolidation and employment.
in writing. - fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union are a serious problem that harms the union budget and therefore taxpayers, preventing the funds of the european institutions from being channelled towards structural growth, fiscal consolidation and employment. that is why we must have zero tolerance for fraud and set ourselves the objective of achieving a level of zero financial irregularities in the eu. i therefore agree with the commission's legislative proposal to introduce provisions to approximate national legal systems, including criminal law measures, in order to combat fraud and other illegal activities harmful to the union budget, in order to create a truly deterrent and punitive environment for fraud.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a commission directive on the fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the union by means of criminal law. parliament considered that fraud and other illegal activities affecting the union's financial interests were a serious problem affecting the union's budget and thus the taxpayers, and called for public funds from the european institutions to be channelled towards structural growth, fiscal consolidation and employment. the general objective of the proposal is to protect the financial interests of the union by means of effective, proportionate and dissuasive measures. to that end, minimum requirements, including definitions of infringements and minimum and maximum sanctions, are laid down in the fight against fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by pointing out that this resolution remains mainly focused on budget implementation and discharge for the financial year 2012, and that its main objective is to ensure that taxpayers' public money is used in the best possible way, while indicating where improvements can be made. i therefore encourage the responsible bodies of parliament to continue to improve, at every possible level, the efficiency of parliament's daily work. i would also like to reiterate my call on the bureau to circulate more white papers on political issues among all members, allowing these issues to be discussed within the political groups before a final decision is taken. finally, i would remind you that the total budget of the union for the financial year 2012 was eur 148 200 million in commitment appropriations, of which eur 1 718 million corresponds to parliament's share, representing just over 1% of the union budget and amounting to 20% of the eur 8 278 million reserved for the administrative expenditure of the union institutions in 2012.
- the court of auditors' audit concluded that, as regards administrative expenditure in 2012, all institutions have implemented the supervisory and control systems required by the regulation satisfactorily. on 6 september 2013, the secretary-general of parliament stated that he was sufficiently confident that parliament's budget had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control system provided the necessary guarantees in terms of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in these terms, i voted in favour of this decision of the european parliament giving its president discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2012.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, allow me first of all to congratulate and salute my colleague, rosa estaràs, for the magnificent work she has done with this report, for being able to reach an agreement when few expected it to be possible. the truth is that it took a long time, a long time too long, before we were finally able to get the reform of an instrument that had long needed revision. the truth is that in many regions affected by disasters and bad weather, such as my region, madeira, in february 2010, many citizens waited too long for help that should have arrived earlier, with less bureaucracy and more solidarity. i particularly welcome the fact that the outermost regions are being positively discriminated against, benefiting from a 1% fund criterion instead of 1.5%. i also welcome the extension of the deadline for requesting support to 12 weeks and the possibility of advance payments of up to 10% which cannot exceed eur 30 million. i wish we never had to resort to this instrument again. we all know that, unfortunately, that will not be true and that in the future we will all be better prepared to help the victims of these disasters. thanks to this reform, we know that aid will arrive sooner and that it will sooner alleviate the suffering of all those who are affected. and this is the most important, because what really matters are the people.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, commissioner lewandowski has just said that the shortage of budgetary resources in the european union and the member states is an unavoidable fact. i would like to say that in politics there are no inevitable facts, there are choices and i think it is not news to anyone that the choices that this parliament has made, together with the council, on the budget are absolutely disastrous, and this is already being seen in the field of humanitarian aid. i would like my colleagues to put themselves in the position of someone who is listening to us and is in desperate need of this humanitarian aid. first of all, i would like to say that humanitarian aid is an absolutely small budget of the union compared with security measures or the budget for security measures. secondly, we have just had someone from palestine, from unrwa, in the committee on budgets talking about the absolutely dramatic situation, and this situation, like others, cannot wait for parliament to be reconstituted, nor for the commission and the council to have greater powers. the measures are urgent, there are lives being delayed. moreover, perhaps if the european union and some of its member states had a slightly different foreign policy, we might not have reached this situation of absolute need for humanitarian aid in some circumstances.
in writing. - i approve this report, and i believe that in accordance with the principles of openness, good governance and democratic accountability, the work of committees of inquiry, and in particular their hearings, should be open to the public; on the other hand, it is also necessary to provide for the possibility of working behind closed doors and appropriate confidentiality rules to ensure the effectiveness of investigations, the protection of the vital interests of the member states, the protection of the privacy and integrity of individuals, in accordance, in particular, with union legislation on the protection of personal data or the protection of the commercial interests of natural or legal persons.
in writing. - i know . the setting up of committees of inquiry by the european parliament, on the initiative of at least one quarter of its members, can help to increase scrutiny of the way in which union law is implemented. that is at least their function under the treaties. i hope that its constitution will continue to obey prudential rules and that these will not be a vehicle for confronting the member states but, on the contrary, ways of seeking to establish facts and draw conclusions from them which are likely to produce positive results for the european institutions and citizens. the amendments to their rules should contribute to this objective and to making the committees better able to carry out the functions for which they are set up.
in writing. - the present proposal for a regulation provides a clearer and more logical structure than that provided by the old decision. the most important improvements are set out in section 3 (research). the starting point of the reflection was the conviction that all conclusions of an investigation should be based only on elements with evidentiary value. to that end, a committee of inquiry should be able to carry out, within the limits of its mandate, any investigation it considers necessary for the performance of its duties, in particular to establish the truth about certain elements of the past by means of concrete evidence. the committee will be able to carry out any type of inquiry, according to the draft regulation, but rules will be laid down for the most important ones, namely to carry out on-the-spot investigations, to request documents, to hear officials and other agents of the union or of the member states, to call witnesses and to request expert reports. in this context, i voted in favour of this proposal for a european parliament regulation on the procedures for exercising the right of inquiry of the european parliament, which replaces decision 95/167/ec, euratom, ecsc of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - i approve this report, since it is intended to draw particular attention to a fundamental aspect of the process of further integration of the european union. there is indeed a need to renew the link between citizens and europe. the question arises: what can the institutions do about it? the european institutions also include the national parliaments of the eu member states, which are in fact part of a european parliamentary system. we can even argue that they are not only organs of their state but also of the european union. its task is to make what can be considered the second chamber of the eu, the council, fully democratic and to bring the citizens of europe closer together.
in writing. - the idea of improving the safety of vessels and their crews, the proper functioning of the market in marine equipment and the preservation of the environment are the underlying ideas behind the change in the european legal order in this area. i believe that all of them are justified and deserve careful attention from the european legislator. there are already some 300 000 jobs in the union in the marine equipment sector. i hope that it will grow and provide more and more job and business opportunities for more european citizens. the european union has a clear maritime dimension which could be enhanced by this directive.
in writing. - this report aims to draw particular attention to a key aspect of the process of further eu integration. there is indeed a need to renew the link between citizens and europe: and what can the institutions do about it? the european institutions also include the parliaments of the eu member states. in fact, they are part of a european parliamentary system. we can even argue that they are not only organs of their state but also of the european union. its mission is to make what can be considered the second chamber of the eu, the council, fully democratic and also to 'bring the citizens of europe closer together'. i agree with these assertions and therefore voted in favour of this report, which comes at a time of crisis and of citizens' distrust of europe, and all the efforts of the european parliament are useful in the urgent promotion of a greater europeanisation of the nps.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in this draft council regulation laying down implementing measures for the system of own resources of the european union, the council has adapted the commission's 2011 proposal to the results of the mff/own resources negotiations, omitting parts on the reform of the vat own resource and the introduction of an itf own resource, which did not receive council support. unfortunately, the council also decided to transfer the provisions on the calculation of gni resources back to the own resources decision, as is currently the case, thus losing the opportunity to regroup all the implementing provisions in a single legal text. i welcome this first opportunity to apply the provisions of the lisbon treaty as regards the regulation laying down implementing measures and support the existence of this regulation. i therefore recommend that parliament give its consent to the draft text proposed by the council.
in writing. - the regulation laying down the implementing measures is part of the overall package of reform of the own resources system presented by the commission in june 2011 (and revised in november 2011) and includes provisions on the determination of own resources, control and supervision, as well as reporting requirements by national authorities. i voted in favour of this instrument which lays down the implementing measures, including provisions of a general nature applicable to all types of own resources and requiring appropriate parliamentary supervision. for the first time, with the treaty of lisbon, parliament's consent is required for the council to adopt this regulation. parliament welcomed this first opportunity to apply the provisions of the lisbon treaty as regards the regulation laying down implementing measures and supported the existence of this regulation.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the commission proposal has taken full advantage of these new provisions of the treaty. it proposed the abolition of the existing vat-based resources and the creation of two genuine own resources, a new vat resource and a new itf resource. this process has reduced the share of member states' gni contributions to a minimum of 40% of total eu revenue. the commission also proposed replacing all reimbursement and correction mechanisms with a system of flat-rate amounts to be applied for the period 2014-2020. last but not least, the commission proposal reduced collection costs to a more realistic 10% compared to 25% for the 2007-2013 mff period. i would point out, however, that the council did not give the commission's proposals the attention they deserved, and no progress was made on the proposals for two new own resources. as a consequence, the proposal to reform the vat resource was not accepted on the grounds that it should be further elaborated.
in writing. - the debate on the form, scope and functions of the european union's own resources continues as european integration in economic and budgetary matters progresses. i believe that there is still a lot to be done in this respect before a model is established which is able to endure and to win the support of the member states and their citizens. the council's cautious stance, which has been criticised by both parliament and the commission, shows how far we are still from this objective. i hope that safe steps can be taken safely in defining the own resources system and that a fair balance and the broadest consensus can be found which will make it not only defined as feasible.
in writing. - this draft council decision was intended to implement the european council conclusions of 7 and 8 february 2013 and to amend the current joint declaration on own resources in a number of points, namely to change the ceiling of resources in payment appropriations and to change the percentage of collection costs that member states retain from traditional own resources to 20% (compared to 25% until now). i am in general agreement with the amendments adopted and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the proposal for a council regulation on the methods and procedure for making available the traditional own resources and the gni-based own resource and on measures to meet cash requirements is part of the package on the reform of the own resources system presented by the commission in 2011. it is a reformulation of existing legislation so that cash requirements are met under the new own resources structure. the provisions are based on the current regulation no 1150/2000, which implements decision 2007/436/ec on the system of the european communities' own resources (as amended by council regulation no 105/2009). the relevant legal basis for this regulation is article 322 (2) tfeu. moreover, the draft presented by the council does not significantly change the commission proposal, except in its adjustment to the final outcome of the mff/rp negotiations, in which the proposals for a new vat own resource and an itf own resource were not accepted by the council.
in writing. - the proposal for a council regulation on the methods and procedure for making available the traditional own resources and the gni-based own resources and on measures to meet cash requirements is part of the package on the reform of the own resources system presented by the commission in 2011. this regulation is a reformulation of existing legislation so that cash requirements are met under the new own resources structure. i agree with the proposed amendments and, on the basis of the favourable opinion of the juri committee, i have voted in favour of adopting this draft council regulation without amendments.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that national gni-based contributions to the budget of the european union, which currently account for about 74% of the total revenue of the european union, cannot be considered as genuine own resources, as they consist of transfers from national treasuries. whereas the resource is based on vat, which represents some 11% of the total revenue of the european union, and has evolved in such a way that it is also understood as a national contribution to the budget of the european union; i also note that for decades this situation has reinforced the fair return logic which also clearly prevailed in the council conclusions of 7-8 february 2013 on the mff 2014-2020 and has largely impeded a structural reform of the budget of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the establishment of implementing measures for the european union's own resources system. i welcome the council's agreement to lay down implementing measures for the union's own resources as provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and i underline the european parliament's call for a reform of the european union's own resources system to make it simple, transparent, fair, visible and understandable to eu citizens, thus strengthening the link between them and the european project, while reducing the burden on member states' national treasuries.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that, as member states are committed to better coordinating their economic and employment policies within the union, all the instruments that enable the union to keep pace with this transformation must be mobilised. for example, in the context of the european semester, member states compare their public employment policy guidelines, in particular from a budgetary point of view, in order to identify which policies are appropriate for each member state, depending on its economic situation and the economic situation of the other member states. this initiative would, in my view, make it possible to achieve the quantified target of the europe 2020 strategy (an employment rate of 75% for the population aged 20-64). but beyond the strategic choice of one or another public policy, i believe that an essential element of its effectiveness is its correct implementation, and that is where the public employment services should be involved.
in writing. - in an increasingly integrated european union, where workers and businesses move, produce goods and provide services throughout the territory, there is a clear need to promote cooperation between public employment services. a european labour market does not tolerate public services which are confined to their own country and do not seek to provide adequate information about other opportunities in other member states. i hope that this cooperation will bear fruit and be strengthened so as to provide workers with a deeper knowledge of the various markets in which they could carry out their professional activity.
in writing. - in the context of the economic crisis and the accompanying unemployment, but also due to the transformation of national labour markets, technological developments and changes in labour needs or changes in careers (mobility between sectors or geographies, interruption and restart of career), the tasks and modes of operation of the public employment services have changed. i voted in favour of this proposal, which parliament has significantly improved by adding to the objectives: 1) the need to pay particular attention to the fight against youth unemployment, the promotion of sustainable employment and the fight against social dumping, 2) involving the social partners and the national employment services and 3) respecting the organisation of competences in the various member states.
in writing. - we have no problem with the creation of a network whose aim is to share good practice and cooperation between the public employment services of each member state. however, at a time when there is an exponential increase in unemployment and a large increase in emigration, especially among young people and highly qualified people, especially in the member states with troika intervention, we consider the commission's proposal to be completely inappropriate. part of the responsibility of this network is the filling of vacancies (including through voluntary labour mobility), which means that member states with a shortfall in job vacancies can export labour to member states with a surplus of jobs. while this mechanism may be important in providing some security for workers who are thinking of emigrating, it will also create tensions and increase inequalities between member states.
in writing. - i approve this report, recalling that since its inception it has been clear that changes are needed to meet the expectations of the countries and regions affected by disasters that are requesting assistance from the european union. while the instrument generally meets its objectives, its responsiveness is not considered to be as effective as it should be, reflected, for example, in the fact that certain criteria for its activation are too complicated or not sufficiently clear. the process of granting aid is too long and the payment of the grant is late, usually about a year after the disaster. for this reason, i believe that the solidarity fund should improve and simplify the procedures, introduce advance payments and clarify certain provisions so that aid can be paid out more quickly and effectively than it is at present.
in the case of the european union, the european union solidarity fund is the existing mechanism for disaster situations arising from natural disasters such as drought or floods, fires or earthquakes. i welcome the measures to increase its operational capacity and, while respecting its strict budgetary limits and constraints, i hope it can effectively assist victims of disasters which, unfortunately, seem to be occurring more frequently in the european union. in the case of my country, i would like to recall the important aid which the european union has given it through the fund during a wave of fires which particularly struck it. i hope that its greater operability and responsiveness will not be tested too often.
in writing. - the european union solidarity fund was set up to respond to natural disasters and to show european solidarity with the regions affected in europe following the various floods in central europe in the summer of 2002. this fund provides grants to member states and candidate countries affected by a natural disaster. the new legislative proposal simplifies the existing rules so that aid is paid out more quickly. the plans also introduce the possibility of early payments for the first time. these plans give greater clarity on who and what will be eligible, particularly in the case of regional disasters. in addition, the reform encourages member states to develop risk management and disaster prevention strategies on their agenda. the fund's principles remain unchanged, as does its financing, which is not included in the eu budget. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report as, in order to further promote investment and access to credit, the european council of 28 and 29 june 2013 launched a new investment plan for europe, aimed at supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and stimulating financing of the economy. in this context, the european council in its conclusions invited the commission and the eib to increase the fund's capacity to improve credit quality as a matter of priority. i agree that restoring normal credit conditions for the economy, in particular for smes, should remain a priority, as considered by the european council of december 2013 which invited the commission and the eib to strengthen the fund's capacity through a capital increase with a view to reaching a final agreement in may 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european union's participation in the increase in the capital of the european investment fund, in which parliament approves not only the increase in capital but also the increase in support from the european investment fund (hereinafter referred to as the fund) for measures which complement the measures taken by the member states in favour of enterprises, in particular small and mediumsized enterprises. this is a very important measure in the context of the current economic crisis.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission proposal aims to allocate funding for the implementation of the new regulation and the european union pharmacovigilance directive, which was agreed in 2012. the new law gives new tasks to the european medicines agency and to the national competent authorities national regulatory bodies of each member state. it is important to set up a financing mechanism as soon as possible, particularly since the law has already entered into force. i also take note of the new tasks of the agency, which include, in particular, the extension of the eudravigilance database to cover medicines authorised at national level and the addition of new functions, including a public section that people can access online to search for adverse reactions to specific medicines.
the commission proposal aims to allocate funding for the implementation of the new regulation and the eu pharmacovigilance directive, which was agreed in 2012. the new law gives new tasks to the european medicines agency (ema) and to the national competent authorities (nca) national regulatory bodies of each member state. however, it is important to set up a financing mechanism as soon as possible, in particular because the law has already entered into force. i voted in favour of agreeing to the urgent need for a financing mechanism and i agree with the amendments proposed by parliament to the commission and which are designed to allow for a rapid agreement. a full review of pharmacovigilance rates is expected to begin next year, when a major overhaul of the whole system can be proposed. however, during this transitional period, the proposals submitted are sufficient.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, according to the committee on budgets, it supports the commission's proposal to grant macrofinancial assistance to the republic of tunisia up to a maximum of eur 250 million in the form of medium-term loans without any subsidy component. we believe that the amf is necessary for tunisia to reduce the short-term vulnerabilities of the economy in terms of balance of payments and public finances. in my view, this initiative will make it possible to adopt structural reforms that improve the country's macroeconomic situation and implement measures of the eu-tunisia action plan under the enp. the budgetary cost of the esf shall be the provisioning of the guarantee fund for external loans of the eu at a rate of 9% of the amounts paid from budget line 01 03 06 (provisioning of the guarantee fund). on the basis of the assumption that the first disbursement of eur 170 million will be made in 2014 and the second disbursement of eur 80 million in 2015, and in accordance with the rules governing the mechanism of the guarantee fund, the provisioning will take place in the budgets for 2016-2017.
in writing. - i support the granting of macrofinancial assistance to tunisia. i do not hide my disappointment at the course taken by many of the countries involved in the arab spring, but i believe that there are still many reasons for hope. the european union has learned the hard way why it should not have stayed out of politics on the southern shore of the mediterranean. tunisia has not escaped the convulsions, anxieties and contradictions of this process. it is therefore in need of international help to deal with the problems affecting it. the union must now seek to redress its initial inertia by contributing to the stabilisation of the region and by becoming more concretely involved in this effort.
in writing. - the amendments presented in this report to the commission proposal for a decision on the granting of macro-financial assistance to tunisia reflect the considerations and principles contained in the joint declaration of the european parliament and of the council, in which the two co-legislators undertake to fully reflect [the] considerations and principles [included in the joint declaration] in future individual decisions on the granting of union macro-financial assistance. i voted in favour of this proposal because this economic aid is necessary for tunisia to reduce the short-term vulnerabilities of the economy, in terms of balance of payments and public finances, and to facilitate the adoption of structural reforms that will improve the country's macroeconomic situation.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the commission proposal concerns an amendment to the recovery plan which was initially adopted for bluefin tuna in 2006. in that year, it was clearly recognised that the species was overexploited and depleted, but the contracting parties to the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas were reluctant to reduce catches and revenues. however, after several years of policy debate and numerous changes to the recovery plan, the latest scientific analysis on bluefin tuna (2012) suggested that several indicators have recently shown trends indicating that the stock may be recovering. however, it should be noted that scientists are still extremely cautious and state that in 2012 the committee had very limited information on the composition of catches, effort and geographical distribution of the main fisheries in the mediterranean to be able to make a conclusive statement on the issue. i believe that we should proceed with caution on this matter and use more experts and studies to support sound and reliable conclusions.
in writing. - i've always been a conservationist, and i've long been concerned about the illegal capture of tuna. i would stress again that it is important that we exploit existing resources in a responsible way so that they can be maintained in a sustainable way. in the recovery process of this species we should always take into account the impact that its extinction would have on fishing communities and fisheries and fish processing enterprises. i believe that research into the breeding of this species in aquaculture should be considered and, if possible, supported.
in writing. - this report aims to amend certain provisions of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, following the adoption of iccat recommendation 12-03, supplemented by iccat recommendation 13-08 on the fishing season for bluefin tuna by vessels using rods and lines (jump-and-line). this report is extremely important for the tuna fleet in the outermost regions of the atlantic, as the previously established fishing calendar for bluefin tuna by this fishing method (1 july to 31 october) did not correspond to the time when this species is most abundant in the azores, madeira and the canary islands. i have therefore been very involved and very active in this document and in the establishment of the necessary political consensus to meet the industry's longstanding demands in this area. after the completion of this work at european level, which culminated in a regulatory amendment allowing member states to freely define the fishing seasons most suitable for the capture of bluefin tuna by the tuna fleets of these outermost regions, it is now up to the competent bodies of the regional and national governments to define the fishing schedule most appropriate to their reality, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report because according to figures from the european central bank, 184 000 counterfeit euro coins were withdrawn from circulation in 2012, and 531 000 counterfeit banknotes were also withdrawn. olaf estimates that counterfeiting the euro has cost european businesses and consumers approximately €500 million since the introduction of the euro in 2002. i believe that consumers and businesses bear the direct costs, as they are not reimbursed for counterfeits. i am convinced that a harmonised approach to the establishment of criminal sanctions would be a useful deterrent. however, there are a significant number of member states who think that these sanctions are overly ambitious and contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. moreover, given the economic disparities between member states, the introduction of harmonised minimum penalties is likely to have inconsistent effects across the union and thus to be counterproductive.
in writing. - as the single currency shared by the 17 member states that make up the euro area, the euro has become an important factor in the union's economy and in the daily lives of its citizens, and has also become the second most important international currency in the world. the euro thus plays an important role in terms of economic and financial integration in the eu, and the confidence of eu citizens and businesses in the currency is key to ensuring financial stability. however, counterfeiting of the euro remains a matter of concern throughout the eu. since its introduction in 2002, the financial losses caused by counterfeiting have amounted to some eur 500 million, directly affecting citizens and businesses, who are not reimbursed when they receive counterfeit currency, even in good faith, so it is essential to ensure a high level of confidence in the authenticity of the euro. it is therefore essential to ensure that the euro, as a common european 'good', is protected in a consistent manner throughout the union by adopting the measures necessary for the adequate and uniform protection of the euro, in particular by establishing a common definition of offences relating to counterfeiting of currency and by adopting effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties.
in writing. - this report focuses on recommendations to encourage member states to tackle the criminal offence of counterfeiting in the way they see fit. in particular, the amendment to article 8 is intended to ensure the primacy of territoriality in determining jurisdiction, since it is neither practical nor fair to ask member states to assume responsibility for offences occurring outside their territory, committed by one of their nationals. the european commission is convinced that a harmonised approach to the establishment of criminal sanctions would be a useful deterrent. however, there are a significant number of member states who think that these sanctions are overly ambitious and contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. moreover, given the economic disparities between member states, the introduction of harmonised minimum penalties is likely to have inconsistent deterrent effects across the union and thus to be counter-productive. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission justifies its proposal for reform of the cfp by stating that the european fishing fleet is overcapacity. i would point out that this is a questionable statement, since the commission has not yet defined overcapacity, and it is therefore difficult to prove it. even if certain regions may have a fishing capacity that is too high in relation to the available resource, this situation is specific and localized and cannot in any way be extended to all fishing areas of the union, nor can it be considered a postulate. the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet be reduced by a further 10% in order to reduce the number of vessels that are caught. i would therefore point out that the commission is proposing to catch the same amount of fish with fewer vessels, thus endangering many small-scale or coastal fishing enterprises and, consequently, many jobs.
in writing. - honey and all bee products are of vital importance to the livelihoods of some eu communities. i understand that honey should be certified because its composition varies from place to place. to give you an idea of how variable its composition is within a country, honey in the central alentejo region is almost entirely made of rosemary pollen and in the northern alentejo region it is almost entirely made of urze or steva. these differences make the issue of their certification somewhat complex, but it should not be abandoned.
in writing. - we have tabled several amendments to this report, always with a view to defending the consumer's right to be informed about the presence of genetically modified organism (gmo) pollen in honey. we are in favour of the obligation to mention the country (or countries) of origin of the honey. in defence of small beekeepers, given the need to carry out product analysis before labelling and the added cost this measure could entail, we proposed that the cost of these analyses should not be charged to the beekeeper and that the eu should compensate affected beekeepers for loss of income due to the contamination of honey with gmos. as a background measure, we proposed that gmos be banned from traditional honey production areas, and that a minimum safe perimeter be set up to prevent contamination. the outcome of the negotiations does not address any of these concerns, with consumers still not being properly informed and small producers subject to contamination of their honey with gm pollen. reasons for our vote against. we recognise the difficulty of dealing with this issue in a framework where the release and large-scale cultivation of gmos in the wild is permitted, as is the case in the eu - a situation which needs to be changed.
in writing. - i voted against this report in the past because i felt that the protection of european beekeepers producing honey without the presence of pollen from genetically modified plants and flowers and the potential value of their production were not guaranteed. the text to be voted on does not allow for a distinction to be made between honey produced from pollen derived from gmos and honey produced from pollen free of gmos, nor does it allow consumers to be adequately informed about the true composition of the honey they buy and consume; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. the points i have mentioned remain, and my vote is therefore also negative.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission justifies its proposal for reform of the cfp by stating that the european fishing fleet is overcapacity. i would point out that this is a questionable statement, since the commission has not yet defined overcapacity, and it is therefore difficult to prove it. even if certain regions may have a fishing capacity that is too high in relation to the available resource, this situation is specific and localized and cannot in any way be extended to all fishing areas of the union, nor can it be considered a postulate. the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet be reduced by a further 10% in order to reduce the number of vessels that are caught. i would therefore point out that the commission is proposing to catch the same amount of fish with fewer vessels, thus endangering many small-scale or coastal fishing enterprises and, consequently, many jobs.
in the case of the baltic sea, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. the funds available for the renewal of fishing fleets are extremely important in helping fishermen, whether through lost funds or through co-investments in fleet modernisation. i stress that this modernization must involve new technology and better training. in the present context, these must be linked so that fishing is carried out with new means of capture and choice of species, ensuring the conservation of fish stocks and benefiting fishermen and improving their incomes, thus being a factor of greater social inclusion for them.
in writing. - this report concerns the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) which will be operational in the eu for the period 2014-2020. the emff is of great importance due to the reform of the cfp and should reflect the requirements imposed on fisheries operators and promote the environmental, social and economic sustainability of the sector. this report contains measures which are essential for the sector, in particular for its rejuvenation through the integration of young people into fishing, support for the acquisition of a small-scale fishing vessel by young fishermen, incentives for the use of more selective fishing gear, support for the temporary cessation of fishing during periods of biological standstill, support for the improvement of safety and working conditions on board, support for the improvement of infrastructure and conditions in fishing ports, landing sites, shelters and lots, increased funding for data collection, monitoring and surveillance of fisheries. although it does not fully meet expectations, the present report is much more favourable to the fisheries sector than the commission's initial proposal. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it contains a set of fundamental measures to strengthen the sustainability and competitiveness of the sector and to improve the income of fishermen.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the uk government has announced its intention to sell the current bramshill premises and has indicated that it does not intend to continue hosting cepol's headquarters on its territory. the uk government recently indicated that it could keep the bramshill facility in operation until summer 2014 at the latest, in order to allow for a smooth relocation of cepol's headquarters. the uncertainty of recent months regarding cepol's future location has hampered the smooth functioning of the agency. in view of the uncertainty, it has been a challenge for cepol to attract and retain motivated staff. i therefore believe that it is important for the proper functioning of the agency and its staff that a decision be taken quickly on its future seat.
in writing. - the european police academy was set up with the aim of enhancing mutual knowledge of national police systems and structures, of international instruments, and of strengthening cooperation between national police schools, by stimulating cross-border cooperation and a common approach to the most important problems in the fight against crime. it became a european agency in 2005 with a legal personality, a secretariat and its own seat which has been based in bramshill, united kingdom, until now. the united kingdom's decision to no longer host the academy on its territory made it necessary to transfer it. the decision to transfer cepol should be taken under the co-decision procedure, in which parliament and the council are co-legislators on an equal footing. therefore, the political decision that the council may have taken at the jha council of 8 october 2013 as regards its preference as regards the location of cepol's new headquarters is not binding on parliament. i therefore regret that the prerogatives of the ep have not been respected and that the ep has not been involved in the evaluation of the seven applications submitted, so that a substantiated position can be taken, with greater transparency, on the basis of the respective impact assessments.
in writing. - i have no objection to this report, which welcomes the proposal by the hungarian government to host cepol in budapest. the proposal meets all the requirements and has had massive support from the member states who signed the legislative initiative to change the seat of cepol, demonstrating in the council overwhelming support for the new seat. parliament supported the proposal and considered that the decision on the seat should be adopted quickly, as the uncertainty generated has made it difficult to attract and retain motivated staff to work at cepol.
there must have been some confusion and i was not prepared to intervene but i want to intervene to welcome this decision of the european court of justice which undoubtedly has implications, not only for the directive but for national legislation and where we expect the commission to intervene so that it is in fact repealed and so that the national authorities comply with the data protection principles. this has implications for the swift agreement, it has implications for the negotiation with the united states on data protection, where it is essential to ensure that the united states effectively guarantees the right of administrative and judicial redress, also for european citizens, as it happens, for that matter, with american citizens in europe.
i would like to thank mrs giannakou, not only because, as she has told us, this is her last speech in this parliament, but also because she has been very open to accepting many of the contributions of my own group to her report. the european union is founded on the fundamental principles of peace, human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the promotion of these values, which we want to be universal, across all european policies, must also obviously be reflected in the european union's external action, in multilateral fora, in relations with third countries, in signed agreements, in trade and development policies, etc. in the interdependent and globalised world in which we live, the mutual knowledge of something between civilizations therefore assumes particular importance, unavoidable for these universal values, for the definition of what is the consensus around these universal values, which coincide with the very reason for being of the european union. the fight against all forms of extremism, xenophobia, intolerance and hatred is therefore one of the most pressing challenges facing the european union. in a world that did not see the end of history with the collapse of the soviet union and therefore where we see cultural, religious, ethnic, social, economic differences being instrumentalised and exacerbating inequalities, poverty, underdevelopment and human insecurity. we have the dramatic example of the central african republic, where religious differences have actually masked problems with much deeper roots. the european union must be able to take action to combat this scourge, and we must be able to take action to combat it. in the case of radical islamic extremism, for example, they are far more likely to cause more victims among muslim believers than in any other community. it is therefore essential not to give in to the temptation of obscurantist currents which try to justify discrimination and sectarianism under the guise of fighting extremism and terrorism. we have often spoken in this parliament about the need to protect christian minorities in the wider middle east, where they are obviously the target of selective and insidious campaigns to exclude them from the societies where they are deeply rooted and where they make the wealth of their own societies. but we must not distort the context in which this happens, and that context is that, in these societies, it is the muslim communities who are the main victims of sectarian violence, terrorism and extremism in the greater middle east and beyond. that is why i think, in conclusion, mr president, that the european union absolutely must strive to strengthen international law, effective multilateral mechanisms and that is why the european union should be at the forefront of the reform and enlargement of the united nations security council, because only in this way will we put an end to impunity... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that one of the first priorities, in order for this future member state to be able to enjoy the internal market freely, is the continuing alignment of customs legislation and procedures with the community acquis. special attention shall be paid to the rules and procedures applicable to transit, customs warehousing, customs value assessment, physical checks and risk analysis, ensuring that they comply with community standards and, where appropriate, with international conventions. i also stress the need to ensure that administrative capacity is improved to enforce customs legislation and to fight against corruption, crossborder crime and tax evasion.
in writing. - following the accession of croatia to the european union, it is necessary to update certain legal instruments which must include all member states. in these terms, i voted in favour of this protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i do so in the light of the favourable recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the main provisions of the agreement provide for the full participation of norway in the activities of the support office. the representation of norway on the management board of the support office as an observer without the right to vote shall be based on annual financial contributions by norway to the budget of the support office, in the form of an annual budget calculated in accordance with its gdp as a percentage of the gdp of all states participating in the work of the support office. norway has accepted provisions for a possible increase of the contribution if the union contribution is higher.
in writing. - the european asylum support office was established in 2010 with the aim of strengthening practical cooperation between member states in this field, improving the implementation of the common european asylum system and providing assistance to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under greater pressure. associated countries, such as norway, which have concluded agreements with the union under which they have adopted and apply union legislation in the field of asylum should participate in the work of the support office. the need for such participation is logical, as these countries are associated to the dublin system, but should also be an added value to the support provided by that office, in particular with regard to the exchange of good practices and expertise, as well as in terms of ongoing and emergency support, collection and analysis of information, early warning system and emergency preparedness. the negotiations lasted about one and a half years and the text of the agreement was initialled by norway in june 2013. i therefore support the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the participation of associated countries in the work of the support office is not only a logical step given their association to the dublin system, but also has clear added value for the support provided by the support office, in particular in terms of the exchange of good practices and expertise, ongoing and emergency support, information collection and analysis, early warning system and emergency preparedness.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the main provisions of the agreement provide for the full participation of liechenstein in the activities of the support office. the representation of liechtenstein on the management board of the support office as an observer without the right to vote shall be based on annual financial contributions by liechtenstein to the budget of the support office, in the amount of an annual amount calculated according to its gdp as a percentage of the gdp of all states participating in the work of the support office. liechtenstein has accepted provisions for a possible increase of the contribution if the union contribution is higher.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the principality of liechtenstein on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. i would like to reiterate the importance of the participation of the associated countries in the work of the support office. this is not only a logical step given their association with the dublin system, but also a clear added value for the support provided by the support office, in particular in terms of the exchange of good practices and expertise, ongoing and emergency support, information collection and analysis, early warning system and emergency preparedness.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by recalling that the european union institutions have agreed to encourage the development of appropriate multiannual financial instruments which act as catalysts for public and private investors in order to pursue the european union's long-term policy objectives for the real economy. i would like to conclude by expressing my concern that in practice projects that provide short- or medium-term income will continue to be preferred and that this preference will interfere with investment in long-term projects, which are key to achieving the eu's strategic objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this criterion may result in market fragmentation due to lack of public funds.
in writing. - this regulation will increase the capital available for long-term investment in the european union economy with the aim of financing the transition to a smart, sustainable and inclusive growth economy. to make this possible, new forms of long-term investment funds will be created, which this legislation aims to regulate, with a view to ensuring that such funds are subject to the same rules across the eu and are identifiable as reliable and safe by investors. all market players will be governed by the same rules, which will benefit the smooth operation of these services and create a genuine single market throughout the union. the management of these funds shall be subject to special authorisation and the funds may invest in assets that require successful long-term development, with a view to careful risk mitigation. investors in such funds should also be entitled to an early redemption. as this legislation is intended to promote smart and sustained investment in europe, a factor in favour of well-planned and well-founded growth, i am voting in favour of this report and its proposals.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european union is surrounded by oceans and seas, with more sea than land under the jurisdiction of the member states. in addition, the coastal zone, shared by 23 of the 28 member states, is seven times that of the united states of america. more than 200 million eu citizens live in coastal regions and 88 million work in them, generating more than 40% of eu gdp. the maritime and marine sectors employ 5.4 million of these workers and their gross value added amounts to some eur 500 billion. i believe that these facts speak for themselves as to the current importance of coastal and marine areas and the maritime economy for the european union. in the future, however, they will play an even more important role, as there will be an increase in the volume of human and economic activities in these regions and sectors. the european union maritime economy is crucial to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and has enormous potential to ensure europe's competitiveness in a globalised world.
in writing. - it is never too late to stress the importance of the european maritime area and its full potential. my country, because of its history, has not only a particular awareness of this fact but also a special capacity to understand, in a practical way, the role that the sea can play in the european union. the fair management of maritime space and the coastline are needs that several member states have sought to address. i hope that the commission proposal will take account of the principle of subsidiarity and recognize the states as having a relevant role in the conduct of this process. nevertheless, the commission could play an important role in stimulating and coordinating this process, aimed at the revaluation and revitalisation of the sea and the surrounding area, for the benefit of states, citizens and the economy itself. any portuguese knows that the sea can unite and not just divide, and he also knows that good maritime space management and integrated coastal management lead to a greater likelihood of success. i hope that this will continue to be the case and that the sea will be seen as a clear commitment by the union to the benefit of all europeans.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a directive establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management. this theme is of crucial importance for delivering the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in the field of the european union's marine and maritime economy, as well as for fostering blue growth and embodying a new type of maritime governance as advocated by the integrated maritime policy. effective implementation of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management requires a coherent, articulated and cross-sectoral approach, which duly respects the legitimate interests of the traditional fisheries, shellfish and aquaculture sectors, protecting areas traditionally used for these activities, and reconciling and avoiding conflicts of use of space and resources with various emerging activities in coastal and marine areas. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur's proposals in general and because i believe that the measures envisaged in this directive will help to simplify, make more flexible and speed up the process of developing and implementing the maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management plans of the eu member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in which the european parliament takes note of the preliminary draft estimate of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2015, as approved by the bureau on 2 april 2014, which is significantly lower than the initial proposal.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that after almost a decade of deliberation, i welcome the commission's proposal for a directive. consumers, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, are prevented from exercising their rights to compensation for damage suffered as a result of infringements of competition law at eu level. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. however, in my view, horizontal measures which are binding on collective action are not yet a reality. class actions would allow real and qualified entities, such as consumer associations and professional organisations, to bring actions on behalf of the individual plaintiff. however, i urge that only a clearly identified group of persons can act as a representative and participate in the action for compensation. the identification shall be complete when the action for damages is brought and the rapporteur suggests a participation model. i believe that, given that only 25% of cartel cases lead to compensation actions in the european union, more efforts must be made to encourage consumers to exercise their rights.
in writing. - the possibility of introducing common rules on actions for damages for infringements of competition law has been discussed at length, but no concrete proposals have been made to date. the commission proposal for a directive is therefore welcome in that it can help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises to exercise their right to compensation for damage suffered as a result of infringements of competition law. the absence of national rules and the disparity between national laws has placed victims and infringers of competition law in an unequal position and may give unfair competitive advantage to undertakings in breach of articles 101 and 102 tfeu, affecting competition and the proper functioning of the internal market. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal to facilitate access to justice and to enable victims to obtain appropriate redress.
in writing. - many european citizens claim compensation for infringements in the private application of eu competition law which harm them as consumers or market operators. any individual may claim compensation for damage suffered where there is a causal link between his damage and a breach of eu competition rules. however, there are some obstacles to effective compensation, given the divergence between different national rules on antitrust and compensation actions in the european union. the european commission acted in this field in 2008 by launching a white paper and putting forward concrete policy proposals in this area. in the resulting public consultation, civil society and institutional actors, as well as the european parliament, actively contributed to the preparation of our legislation. parliament therefore broadly supports the creation of a directive in this area which will bring clear benefits in the application of fair and secure competition laws. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, since according to the european environment agency, in 2009 the member states of the european union produced more than 74 million tonnes of hazardous waste (28% more than in 2000). according to eurostat, in 2010 the member states of the european union produced 101 thousand tonnes of hazardous waste and a total of 927 thousand tonnes of waste excluding important mineral wastes. i would also remind you that exports of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries are prohibited under the regulation on shipments of waste. exports for the recovery of non-hazardous waste to non-oecd countries are permitted provided that the importing country has not raised any objections to such imports and the facilities receiving the waste operate in accordance with standards of human health and environmental protection which are broadly equivalent to those laid down in community legislation.
in the case of the waste, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community. the environment must be one of our greatest concerns. we must avoid at all costs contamination by toxic or poisonous wastes which can endanger our health and the preservation of the environment.
in writing. - according to the european environment agency (eea), in 2009 eu member states produced more than 74 million tonnes (mt) of hazardous waste (28% more than in 2000). according to eurostat, in 2010 eu member states produced 101 mt of hazardous waste and 927 mt of waste in total, excluding major mineral wastes. i agree with the objectives of the commission proposal, namely the proposal for firm action against illegal transfers, and therefore i voted in favour of this report. indeed, firm action against illegal transfers is a win-win solution for the environment and health, as well as for industry and the economy.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that new psychoactive substances are substances with the same effects as controlled substances but which are not covered by the united nations conventions on the control of drugs. many of them can have commercial and industrial uses as well as be exploited for scientific and development purposes. when consumed by humans, they may pose health, social and safety risks. in recent decades, there has been a rapid increase in the sales and consumption of these substances in many member states. there is evidence that new psychoactive substances are particularly popular among younger age groups. according to the 2011 eurobarometer youth attitudes to drugs, 5% of young people in the eu have used these substances at least once in their lives; the highest percentage of 16% was recorded in ireland, with poland, latvia and the united kingdom recording values close to 10%. there are more than 300 new psychoactive substances in use today throughout europe. at present, new notifications by member states occur at a rate of approximately one per week.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal to approve the temporary restriction of the marketing of new psychoactive substances. this is an important new feature of the new mechanism which, once adopted by the commission, should remain in force until member states apply the permanent measures. in view of the dynamics of the phenomena and in the interests of efficiency, parliament amended the provisions of article 9 to avoid possible discontinuities between the temporary restriction of marketing and the application of the permanent measures.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by welcoming the commission's proposal to include new psychoactive substances in the same criminal law provisions as other controlled substances under the united nations conventions. it is therefore vital to amend the scope of the framework decision to include these new psychoactive substances. psychoactive substances, like many other drugs, are a threat to society, as they affect the rational behaviour and common sense of its citizens. these substances affect the functioning of the brain, which in turn causes symptoms such as alterations in consciousness, behaviour and cognition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending the framework decision adopting minimum rules on the constituent elements of criminal offences and penalties applicable in the field of illicit drug trafficking, as regards the definition of drugs. i would stress that the directive laying down minimum rules on the constituent elements of criminal offences and penalties applicable in the field of illicit drug trafficking, as regards the definition of a drug, does not apply to users of psychoactive substances, although some member states may provide for the criminalisation of possession of drugs for personal use at national level.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that this agreement should serve to reaffirm shared values, common objectives and common responsibilities in the promotion of peace, stability, parliamentary democracy and sustainable development worldwide and a sound multilateral system. we must continue to work together to strengthen and reform the united nations, including the security council. the increasingly multipolar world is characterised by the growing political importance of a multiplicity of regional and national actors, including the european union and japan, and calls for enhanced cooperation and coordination at international level.
in writing. - japan could become an important trading partner of the eu. although geographically distant, the global position and responsibility that japan and the eu share, as well as the shared civilizational values, make their economic cooperation synonymous with peace. according to the latest eurostat data, euro-zone exports of goods to japan increased by some 7% in the last year, making it the third largest export destination in real terms. in the eu-28, exports to japan increased by around 8% over the same period, which is the second largest export market. japan is one of the eu's most important trading partners and it is in the best interests of the eu that this strategic partnership agreement should be concluded in order to improve relations between these two players in the international system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which contains the european parliament's recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for a strategic partnership agreement between the eu and japan. parliament reaffirmed the shared values, objectives and responsibilities for promoting peace, stability, parliamentary democracy, sustainable development worldwide and a strong multilateral system and called for the eu and japan to continue to work together to strengthen and reform the united nations, including the security council.
in writing. - considering that understanding religious and cultural diversity is a solid way of fostering tolerance and reconciliation in post-conflict situations and helps to encourage human rights and democracy, as it enables inclusion, mutual respect and understanding of different mindsets, i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on eu foreign policy in a world of cultural and religious differences.
in writing. - the situation in eastern europe is worrying. we are witnessing the re-emergence of a power with economic and military influence and an interest in creating a eurasian bloc. new information indicates that several russian military units are concentrated on the border with ukraine. the new situation makes europe once again one of the world's leading geostrategic theatres after long years in which the european union believed it lived in what robert kagan called a postmodern paradise. the end of the strategic holidays implies that the european union recognizes its fragility in terms of its energy dependence and its limited military capacity and is able to understand the need to build itself up as a solid and capable pillar of nato. diplomacy is the preferred path to return stability to the region. we must make every effort to resolve this conflict in this way. but prevention is better than cure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling for greater eu involvement in the search for a solution to the conflict in transnistria, including the strengthening of the eu's status in the 5+2 talks to become an effective partner in the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament welcomes the current progress of the negotiations on the free trade agreement, in particular the chapters on customs, trade facilitation, technical barriers to trade and competition, and the regular information provided by the commission to the european parliament on the respective points of the situation. it is recalled that parliament's consent to the free trade agreement is mandatory and that the commission and the council should not propose provisional application of the agreement before parliament has given its consent.
in writing. - considering that the strengthening of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) is a cross-cutting effort across different policy areas, i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament calls on the commission and the member states to create an internet application through which the administration can indicate whether and to what extent smes will be affected by future legislation, as does, for example, the mittelstandsmonitor (german sme observatory), which indicates, using a simple code with the colours of traffic lights, whether it is very likely (red), likely (yellow) or unlikely (green) that future legislation will affect smes. this is a measure which could be of great help to the european legislator.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the persecution of the various religious minorities is recurrent, i would say several, not just the christians, as was shown here a moment ago. there are persecutions that are carried out by fundamentalist groups or by angry mobs. it is true that one sees extrajudicial killings. but they're not alone. many agnostic or atheist citizens are also persecuted. several journalists have been murdered and so have trade unionists. in this context, women are even more vulnerable. the issue of religion has often been used for political purposes. the death penalty remains in force and various human rights organizations estimate that there are about 8,000 people on death row. it is the state itself that is unable to guarantee the rights of minorities and that ends up promoting violence. it is clear that it is imperative to press the government of pakistan to take measures that guarantee freedom of religion or non-religion, freedom of expression, that end censorship on the internet. but we are also among those who believe in the strength and importance of the forces on the ground, of the men and women who are already, at this moment, fighting for these rights and for a change in the situation.
the european union has already taken a number of decisions on syria in the past year. it is clear that talking about the most vulnerable communities does not mean excluding all syrian men and women from the desperate situation they are in at the moment. in fact, there are 9 million people who are in need of humanitarian aid and there are about 3 million displaced people in neighbouring countries. i would like to speak about two aspects. one was what does europe have to do with this, what can europe do, the european union in particular? and i wanted to talk about two populations, the kurdish population and the palestinian population. not that the other populations of syria don't deserve the same respect, but i think they have some peculiarities. the kurdish population is mainly on the borders with iraq and turkey, and there is an embargo on humanitarian aid to these areas. on the other hand, the process of democratization in syria will of course have to respect all minorities and the diversity of the population. as regards the palestinian population, i would like to remind you that there are half a million palestinian refugees who are double refugees, who were already in syria as refugees and who now had to leave and go to neighbouring countries. i would also like to recall how lebanon, a small country, has taken in a large number of syrian refugees, some of whom are palestinians, and how european humanitarian aid has not been able to arrive, not only because of a lack of political will to take in more, but also because of political complicity on the ground. in reality, for example, the yarmouk camp, which was a palestinian refugee camp in syria, has been completely trapped, the people have been completely trapped between the rebels and the opposition and the government's siege, and i think it would be a good idea if europe increased the number... (the president withdrew the floor.)
the forces of the consensus of austerity, the right and social democracy, which have hardly recovered from the huge upheaval of the last elections, make it clear that they intend to continue their project of civilizational regression. the guidelines adopted by this european council are a menu of all kinds of attacks on workers and peoples: less wages, less rights, less public services, more inequality in the distribution of wealth. an intolerable disregard for the sovereignty of the peoples, with interference and attacks on organs of national sovereignty, such as the portuguese constitutional court. with or without troika, in the face of the disaster they have caused, instead of fighting their way through, they go on! they deepen destruction, impoverishment and injustice. they will face the determined struggle of the workers and peoples, a seed loaded with future that, sooner or later, will bring with it the final defeat of this sordid project! (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mrs jaakonsaari, i appreciate your question. i have not heard that the socialist governments in the european council have raised any objection to the recommendations adopted in the context of the european semester, nor have they objected to the adoption of the budgetary treaty which enshrines, or intends to enshrine, austerity for all time, nor do i think that they have objected here in this parliament to the adoption of the economic governance legislation which also intends to enshrine austerity. objections to the european semester, none of this has been objected to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to congratulate president van rompuy, i would also like to congratulate the commission, and with that i would like to stress what several colleagues have already stressed here, namely that it is truly constitutional, in a certain sense even constitutional for our parliament and for the european union, that the candidate who won the elections has been chosen to be the candidate for president of the commission. but as this has been very much underlined, i would just like to leave you with two important political questions. the first is that when we hear criticism here, both from the conservative group and especially from the more extreme groups, of the choice of mr juncker as president of the commission, i ask: if he had not been chosen and had been someone else, what would they be saying about the european union, what would they be saying about the european process today, here in this house? they would be saying that the european union was the discredit, that it was frustrating the will of the voters and that we had not been able to honour the will of the voters and that is why they have a double standard and a double standard. this has to be said. so the choice of jean-claude juncker is, contrary to what we have been told here, what they did not want to happen, because that would be a discredit on europe and a discredit on the pro-european parties and therefore on the confidence of the voters. it was this political fact, and not just the constitutional fact, that i wanted to emphasize here today.
mr president, how can the european council explain that in the agenda it has adopted it has not identified as a priority the fight against fiscal dumping and tax havens, which are instruments for capturing governments and administrations and constitute a circulatory system of crisis, tax fraud and evasion, corruption, money laundering and organised crime to suck resources from the states and the union, diverting them from growth and job creation? in this perspective, why does president barroso not look at our country, portugal, where the austerity troika ignored the risks of corruption and allowed privatisations, ppps, swaps and other ruinous contracts suspected of corruption to run, such as the one his government concluded in 2004 to buy submarines, and let protect, with obscene tax amnesties, rich and powerful bankers who escaped taxation. when even the unsuspecting imf leftist has admitted that it would have been better for portugal to renegotiate the debt in 2011, what does the president of the european commission hope to propose a european plan for the mutualisation of the management of the excess debts in 15 of the 18 members of the euro zone or, at least, the renegotiation... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, it is becoming painful to see what the conclusions of the council meetings are, because every time they talk about growth, we have more inequality in the european union, every time they talk about job creation, we have more unemployed and it is indeed painful, because these conclusions could have been made a month ago, a year ago, two years ago. it's always the same recipe and always the same tragedy. what i would like to know is why the problems are not really discussed, this council has not had a word to say about the debt. the debt that is blackmail and the garrote that is placed on the people to repay the profits of the financial system, not a word. when's the debt restructuring? there was not a word about democracy or participation. millions of citizens abstained, they want nothing to do with the european union. when to involve them in participation? this council only talks about what doesn't matter. this council only serves the financial markets, it does not serve the citizens, it does not serve the interests of the european union.
in writing. the conclusions presented this morning by the president of the council represent in essence the continuation of the same policies which are at the root of the recession affecting europe in general and the southern countries in particular. in this sense, we consider these conclusions to be a bad omen, as there is no critical analysis of the effect of these policies. instead of stopping to think, we are witnessing today an absurd glorification of wrong choices, deliberately omitting their effects and insisting on their maintenance but also on their reinforcement. in the portuguese case, the situation becomes delusional when the expectation of a deficit of 2.5% for 2014 is maintained, overlooking the fact that none of the adjustment objectives has been met. the general government deficit in the first quarter was 6%. the public debt is already 132% of gdp and the last issue of 10-year government debt was made at an interest rate of 5.2%. we do not therefore accept these conclusions and condemn their content, because they represent an intolerable interference with our sovereignty, imposing measures which will further aggravate the situation of portugal and the portuguese.
, in writing. there has been a lot of talk about the farce surrounding the appointment of the president of the european commission after this european council. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud, and has been very active in the fight against fraud. the european council and the european commission will closely monitor the implementation of these recommendations, as they did of the aggression pact (the troika's memorandum). these recommendations are a clear expression of the eu's disregard for the organs of national sovereignty, the constitutional court, the portuguese constitution and the will of the portuguese people to decide. the european council states that, due to the recent slumps in the tc, the government may have to raise taxes, urging portugal to replace the consolidation measures considered unconstitutional by the tc with measures of similar size and quality as soon as possible, an unacceptable interference that the portuguese people will not accept.
mr president, this is a point of order. mr. president, it seems obvious to me that when the president opens a ballot, he fixes the electoral college. of course, in a plenary session there are always members coming in and members going out. the fact that members are entering cannot be a criterion for prolonging a vote because there are always members entering, and therefore, mr president, in conclusion, repeating the vote could undermine the result that has been achieved. the people have formed their will, decided and voted. we can't change the rules of the game when the game is already over. it seems obvious, mr. president.
blue-card question. – mr weber, do you agree that the ecb stuck to the rules – or did not, but actually helped save the euro when it decided to do everything it had to do and when it decided to lend through the banks? that is quite difficult to accept when, at the same time, it is not directly lending to governments. is it acceptable to you that the ecb helps save the banks and cannot help save the governments and the states? is this the kind of rules that you want to be respected, or not? (applause)
mr president, having martin schulz as president of this parliament is a guarantee that our pluralist and humanist tradition is safeguarded. this guarantee was also reinforced by the appointment of mr juncker as president of the european commission. mr president, this democratic act is a small step in connecting european citizens with the institutions, it is a small step but it is a step in the right direction. we have not taken steps in the right direction for a long time, and so this opens up a new avenue of hope for our common project. the time has come, mr president, to go further, to make decisions and to make reforms that will improve people's lives. the italian presidency comes at a time when there are no shortcuts: it's either going to be a big success or it's going to be a failure. europe has to make choices. do we want to be a museum, do we want to be a theme park, do we want to be a casino, or do we want to be the laboratory of the future? we need to be able to lead a new stage of industrialisation, clean innovation, a new, diversified energy model, create skilled jobs, particularly for young people, and multiply entrepreneurial havens where the new generation of european industry can be born. we need to be inspired, mr president, by the speed and determination that have been the matrix of your government. we must complete the economic and monetary architecture and promote smart investment. i just want to ask you one question: i would like to ask the president what plan he has for providing the euro area with a budget which will make all this easier and more possible.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, let me congratulate you on your election, and let me also tell you that on that high podium you look even more vice-presidential than before. prime minister, you started your presidency in great style. you brought to this house what europe needs so much: pro-european passion, mediterranean temperament, energy and political will for change. european citizens send us a clear message: they want a europe of growth, a europe of jobs, a europe of values, and a europe which has a soul and cares deeply about her citizens. your presidency is the first one after the european elections. it is the presidency which will oversee not only the institutional renewal, but also the setting-up of the priorities for all eu institutions for the next five years. we must make sure that these correspond to the major concerns of the european citizens – how we can restore growth; what about the worries of the unemployed; how we can address the fears of young people about their future; how we tackle poverty; how we deal with the migration pressures which are felt particularly strongly in your territory in the south of europe. i am very glad that in your introductory statement you were very clear that your presidency is going to look for answers in europe, and here i agree with all the honourable members – mr pittella, mr verhofstadt, mr weber and many others – who clearly underlined that we have not used the potential of europe fully, and that there is still a lot we can tap into and can use, be it the european single market, our digital economy, renewal of our industry or the fact that we are the biggest trading bloc and the biggest economy in the world. we have to search for all the possibilities and look into all opportunities which europe is offering in order to make sure that the enormous financial resources we invested in the financial industry to save our banks are actually transferred and channelled to the real economy to help our european companies to innovate, get our europeans new, much-needed skills and help our enterprises to innovate through access to innovation, research and development programmes. i also believe that you can use project bonds much better. we can use new, innovative financing much better, because this is exactly what the european economy needs: renewal, real money for the real economy for real entrepreneurs. i am very thankful to you for reminding us of the important role that europe must play in the process of globalisation. i am absolutely convinced that globalisation needs a european flavour. it should do more to reflect european values, and europe must remain the world global leader to shape it better than before. you said that today’s selfie of europe would be one of a tired, bored continent, and i want to underline that the commission is ready for full and close cooperation with you and your team, and i am also sure that, thanks to italian energy, enthusiasm and reform, the selfie of europe in six months’ time will be significantly refreshed. good luck with your presidency.
president of the council. - mr president, it was very instructive to hear you. i'm grateful to you. it was also very interesting and i'll take some thoughts home with me. the first is that italy is not afraid of judgments, but i am a little afraid of certain prejudices, certain prejudices that have also been expressed in this chamber. for example, i ask how it is possible to think that italy's position on the environment is the one that was described by a blue card and then by the leader of the greens. i wonder how anyone can imagine, for example, that the subject of energy is not being discussed when we in rome have hosted the g7 on energy at the initiative of italy. and i very much agree with some of the reflections on interconnection, especially from spain and france, and the whole issue of the energy report, which is no longer just east or west, but north and south. there will be a chance to discuss the merits of the work during the semester. i hope that the civil service will also be involved, since it has not mentioned it, nor the great ideals we have tried to bring to your attention. i would say to mr woolfe, who is not here and who spoke about western values, that this is not my own expression but is in the boko haram statement of claim. (applause) i hope you understand the difference between our position and that of boko haram, and i also believe that you can turn your back on the anthem, but you cannot turn your back on the real problems of this continent. (applause) but i would like to close by simply thanking all the speakers, particularly, as always, not just my political group, but it is always a pleasure to hear so many of you - verhofstadt above all. i have listened to him since i was a young citizen and shared his great anxiety about europe, which is also my own. i am very impressed, however - i say this and i am sorry to speak in your absence - by the speech of the leader of the epp group, who probably does not realise that some of his members are supporting my government, but it is not important to say that here. i am surprised because i have not understood whether he has spoken in this house on behalf of his political group, in which case i see some friends, although of different opinions. i have no doubt that his political group has explained to its members in recent years all the brilliant reflections made on the debt and economic policy of italy, as his political group has led our country for many years and i am sure that he has explained it to weber. as i am sure he will have been answered. (applause) i would like to thank if, on the other hand, mr president, mr weber was speaking on behalf of germany, i would point out to you, who knows much better than i do, from your experience and membership, that in this very room, during italy's last presidency of the european semester, there was a country which was not given flexibility but was allowed to violate the limits. that country was germany, with the reform process that allowed germany today to be a country that is growing. then i want to say this very frankly: if you are going to discuss this, mr president, we would be happy to make our european semester a great opportunity for discussion, reflection and debate. but if you imagine that you are wielding the weapon of prejudice, without knowing, for example, that while it is true that italy has a very high public debt, it does have public and private wealth that is four times that of the public debt. obviously there is a problem that concerns our country for which we do not talk about "homework", but we talk about reforms that we have shared with our citizens. the attitude of those who imagine that they are here to lecture others, without having listened to the speech but speaking of something else, is an attitude that i believe is an attitude to be rejected by the sender. i am therefore sorry that in the absence of the epp group leader, who will certainly have had more important commitments, i have had to reply to him on the merits, to tell him that this is a country - a great country - which has not only history but also the future on its side, and that if anyone thinks he is coming to lecture others, he is in the wrong place. this is the place of democracy and let me close, therefore, with a reference to the financial crisis, not the last one, the first one. do you know where she's been, mr. president? you know better than i do: florence was the first financial crisis. and i'm honored to be the now former mayor of one of the most beautiful cities in the world. well, at that time, because of the financial crisis, the families who owned the banks paid the states to bail out the states: families failed, states were saved. the opposite is exactly what happened with the state-saving fund to which italy contributed, where we saved, understandably, not only countries, but also some credit institutions of important countries that had with little foresight invested in those countries, in those banks, in those state bonds. i would like to recall the financial crisis in florence, not to say that the opposite of what happened today happened then, but to draw a positive lesson: and from that financial crisis came the renaissance. and the big lesson that was learned from that financial crisis was that educating for beauty, educating for teaching, educating in schools, in universities then, educating for the values of men and women, was the key to pulling a city -- in that case a country, a europe now -- out of its difficulties. so, i say this as a former mayor of florence and i say this as the president of the italian council of ministers: we are not afraid to face the crisis, because we know that the pride and courage we have with us will be enough to change italy. but it is not italy and france that are asking for different rules of the game. we're fine with the rules of the game. we are all united in saying that only by investing in growth will we guarantee our children a prosperous future. if we continue to stick to slogans, i fear we will no longer be able to defend our countries of origin. with this spirit we will enter the semester, mr president tajani, and i thank you for the extra minute, because we think this semester is a gigantic opportunity to recover the taste and the passion and also - let me say, just thinking of the renaissance - to revive not only our economy but our values which are the most beautiful thing we have. good work, all of us.
social democracy has regained government positions in some eu countries, most notably in france and italy. in the first case, the time that has elapsed since hollande became president is very revealing as to the options and the paths followed. the man who promised to change europe and the world has taken over the policies of the right, enshrined in instruments such as the budget treaty, the euro plus pact, economic governance legislation and the european semester. these policies have been the subject of an impressive popular judgment, with the ps/hollande party suffering a resounding defeat in the recent european parliament elections. that is the way, that is the policy of european social democracy. this is also the path, these are also the policies of the italian presidency. the rhetoric of growth and change, with social flourishes and so on, does not hide, in substance, the identity of positions with the european right and the co-responsibility for the neoliberal policies that have brought us to the situation of economic and social disaster that we are facing today in many countries, of which portugal is a painful example. the commitment to free and unregulated trade, evident in the intention to conclude the negotiations on the eu-us transatlantic treaty, is just one example among many others...
the real objectives and results of the troika's intervention in portugal are now clearer. the aim of this intervention was to: (1) increase growth potential, create jobs and improve competitiveness; (2) reduce the ratio of public debt and budget deficit; and (3) safeguard the stability of the financial system. three years on, the results are telling on all fronts: the biggest accumulated recession since the second world war, structural unemployment unseen in a democracy, the bankruptcy of tens of thousands of companies, uncontrolled debt exceeding 130% of gdp and a deficit well above the targets set. a financial system that has channeled millions of public resources to speculative activities contrary to the general collective interest and that is highly vulnerable, as demonstrated by the situation in banco espírito santo, which may lead to developments that are not yet entirely predictable. despair, emigration, desertification, poverty, misery and hunger on the one hand, and the growing accumulation and concentration of wealth on the other. breaking with this path is an undeniable imperative facing the peoples of europe.
the european political groups have presented their candidates for the presidency of the european commission, with the aim of making the decision-making process more democratic, bringing voters closer to the elected representatives and giving greater credibility to the public cause. in view of the election results, which have led to the victory of the epp, it is with great satisfaction that i confirm the appointment of jean-claude juncker as the future president of the european commission. i believe that your work programme, focused on economic growth and job creation, can lead the european union to new moments of prosperity and wealth creation, which is so fundamental to improving the quality of life for 500 million european citizens. i believe it is essential to pay particular attention to the younger generations and to work actively to increase youth employment through concrete measures to promote labour mobility and to allow for faster recognition of skills throughout the european area.
in writing. european citizens need a sign of change. no need for more fine speeches. words are no longer enough to change the dynamic of demotivation and dissolution that threatens to contaminate the european union. this choice must be the result of clear commitments: commitments to investment, to the intelligent management of migration flows, to territorial cohesion, to innovation, to the new industry and to a strategic commitment to clean energy. the commission's programme for the next term is itself a compromise, but it clearly shows the matrix of the social democratic vision for europe. it is important that this matrix be subject to constant monitoring by the european parliament, that the governments led by the socialists be made aware of it so that they can promote its multiplication at national level and that the active cooperation between parliament and the commission, which will make this election possible, should have a dynamic continuity throughout the mandate. we are facing a new beginning in the process of developing the european project, a new beginning which takes up again in a modern framework the convergence between christian democracy and social democracy. it is on behalf of this new progressive alliance that i will vote for juncker as president of the european commission.
the cfp is concerned about the deteriorating situation in ukraine. however, it should be remembered, and i apologize to the most sensitive ears, that this situation is the result of a coup d'état that took place last february and was marked by an escalation of violence and political repression, promoted by the most reactionary sectors of the ukrainian oligarchy and by forces of a fascist nature. this coup d'état was explicitly supported by the united states of america, the european union and nato, a supreme demonstration of complete hypocrisy and contempt for national institutions and the international order. we express our deepest indignation and concern at the worsening humanitarian situation in ukraine, but we also express our concern at all the measures designed to undermine the activities of the communist party of ukraine and the brazen public demand for their prohibition by those responsible for the coup, and we note the silence of this parliament on this matter.
this eu-us free trade agreement is one of those watershed issues. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the products it produces, and it is hoping that the commission will be able to take this into account in its proposals for the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. between those who advocate environmental sustainability and the safeguarding of public health, and those who in exchange for new markets give in to principles such as that of precaution. the debate is divided between those who defend public services as an inalienable achievement of civilization and those who advocate the advance of the market as a compressor over the social functions of the states. this is a confrontation between those who defend the right to development and the right to produce, of all peoples and countries, and those who defend the protectionism of the rich and powerful.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ttip is a truly strategic partnership and a great opportunity for the european economy. at stake is not only an ambitious trade agreement between the world's two largest economies, but also a powerful move toward regulatory convergence that will set the world of international trade on a course toward more regulated globalization. if ttip is properly safeguarding the interests of the union and its member states, it can bring many advantages to our economies. the european parliament has already declared its support for the development of these negotiations and has advocated the safeguarding of european values and of the social, labour and environmental aspects. and it is important that the commission takes parliament's positions seriously, since parliament has the power to give final approval to this agreement. i leave you two notes: the first, commissioner, is to win the support of public opinion and only transparency will be trustworthy and what has been done is not enough. i ask therefore what initiatives the commission will take to increase transparency in the ttip negotiations? the second question concerns financial services. we know about the resistance on the american side. we want to know if the commissioner is considering a parallel agreement and if he is in a position to guarantee... (the president cut the speaker off)
former representative of the european commission, former representative of the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be naive or have illusions about the terms of the atlantic pact: there will be gains, but there will also be losses and risks. i know that there are potential gains being announced, but i am particularly concerned about the losses being announced in the agricultural sector. i would like to make a plea here that european farmers should not be held hostage to a potential agreement. there are clear risks, for example, in the meat and dairy sector where the united states is highly competitive in terms of price. the risk is even greater for small-scale agricultural economies, such as the azores, and it is precisely in relation to these sectors that the risk is even greater. in my country, among others, the tomato row may be so affected that it leads to the abandonment of production. i therefore urge the european commission to pay particular attention to the interests of european farmers when negotiating the terms of the agreement with the united states and to strike the necessary balances for the preservation and dynamisation of agricultural practice in europe, especially where agricultural activity is particularly important and is hardly substitutable as an economic activity.
the negotiations for free trade between the european union and the united states are welcome. such an agreement will boost the european economy, promoting exports, economic growth and employment, all of which are particularly important for countries which, being subject to austerity measures, such as portugal, cannot incur economic stimulus representing additional public expenditure. it is therefore essential to ensure that the benefits of this agreement accrue to all member states individually, and not just to the eu as a whole. can the european commission give us any assurance that it will be able to reach a comprehensive agreement on this? the elimination of tariff surges and non-tariff barriers is also expected to provide the greatest share of the economic benefits of this trade agreement. the removal of such barriers is essential, but must be approached with due caution, avoiding at all costs a deterioration of the environmental and consumer protection standards in force in the european union. i would like to ask the european commission how this is being defended in the context of the negotiations with regard to, for example, the agri-food sector and the less stringent american standards for the environment and animal feed.
it is curious that today a portuguese newspaper had a headline: more and more pregnant women and new mothers are arriving in hospital emergency rooms hungry, including women who are working and living in poverty, even though they have a job. it is also curious that it is precisely now, at this time when women need it most, that the european commission is rushing to make the possibility of guaranteeing 20 weeks of maternity leave and 2 weeks of fully paid paternity leave disappear. it is significant that the european council is always in tune on the cuts in wages and workers' rights - there is no problem there - but cannot find a consensus to strengthen the rights of working families and mothers. if there were a genuine concern about the problems of population ageing and the promotion of increased birth rates, if there were a genuine concern about discrimination in the workplace against women workers who are pregnant or who have been mothers, then it would be very easy to decide. here, the dominant political forces always talk about their social concerns. so now explain to us why governments which are part of the same political forces as the majority in this parliament cannot decide on the upgrading of women's rights.
madam president, i just wanted to say that this directive is over 20 years old, which means that it is obsolete and has to be updated and harmonized for the sake of fairness and justice. the withdrawal of the maternity leave directive by the council and the commission, which has been blocked since 2010, shows a lack of respect for parliament, and i would remind you that the council has never spoken on this matter. we could conclude from this that there was no interest in negotiating the proposal with this parliament. in other words, it is not clear what the real intentions of the council and the commission are in withdrawing this proposal. do you have a new proposal? is that proposal ambitious enough? and if there is a new proposal, who was it negotiated with? who does it serve? what does it consist of? how will it be carried out? or are we going to stick to an outdated directive that is more than two decades old? on the one hand, the european institutions are concerned about europe's ageing population and, when they want to help the growth of births and parents in practice, they block proposals that are intended to respond to the real concerns of european citizens.
in writing. i am in favour of swift negotiation of the matter, by incorporating measures which are part of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation, a competence conferred on the european parliament and the council by article 157 tfeu. the proposal covers not only the extension of maternity leave but also questions of pay equity, the prohibition of dismissal and the protection of pregnant or postpartum workers in the event of overtime, the conditions for their return to work, the right of the father to take leave, special protection for children with disabilities and other issues requiring immediate action. i am in favour of establishing minimum conditions for parental leave which do not prejudice or call into question other parental leave schemes in the member states and respect for the right of the couple to choose the type of joint leave they wish to take.
the process of preparing lithuania for euro membership is a painful exercise of forced austerity through which the people of lithuania have been subjected to drastic measures with high social and economic costs. contrary to what is said in the report supporting this accession, this process was far from being considered a success. it is no coincidence that this accession was rejected by the majority of the population in a referendum in may 2013. in recent years, lithuania has been in a period of severe recession, with a sharp contraction in the national economy, a loss of purchasing power of workers, very high unemployment rates and a forced emigration of a significant part of its youth. we continue to believe that the process of joining the euro represents an intolerable interference with national sovereignty, which thereby loses an important instrument of economic policy and is subject to a single monetary policy in the service of the great powers of central europe, an interference which is even more evident when it comes to a decision which has ignored the will of the lithuanian people.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i am a former minister of labour and now vice-chair of the s&d group on social and economic issues. i have a very difficult question for the commission but first let me greet commissioner lászló andor, who has done a great deal in a very difficult situation. commissioner, you fought for job creation, you fought for social investment: investing in people is the right way to invest in europe. lastly, you launched the youth guarantee. now the situation is as follows. in spite of many efforts, the unemployment rate remains very high in europe, particularly the youth unemployment rate. beyond that we have divergences, economic and social divergences, between regions and member states, which never existed in the past. so something is deeply wrong in europe. i do not believe there is a future for europe if there is no future for young people in europe. this means that we need to have a much higher ambition as regards tackling this problem. my question is therefore very simple. based on your experience and what has been done so far, which stronger instruments should we have in the european union to tackle and reduce youth unemployment and stop these economic and social divergences? these divergences are undermining our european ambition, our european project and our european cohesion. we are losing the win-win game we should have in europe. so my question for you, commissioner, is what ideas do you have about that? what is the stronger instrument we should be building together in order to come before our citizens with a convincing response?
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter, but that we should be concerned about the fact that the council has not yet been consulted on the matter. it's important to understand what has changed since then: little or nothing. 23% of young people in the european union are unemployed, and in some countries, such as greece and spain, more than half of young people in these countries are unemployed. in many countries, such as my own, there is an attempt to manipulate the statistics, ignoring the fact that a slight decline in these statistics is also due to the bloodshed of immigration, to the growing number of young people who are forced to leave their country, a situation which can only be compared with the poverty of a few decades ago when we had fascism. and also omitting that those jobs that are created have very precarious labor ties, that are replaced... work with rights by work without rights. now we need to know this: how is this youth guarantee program different, is it different from all the other programs that have ever existed before? occupational and traineeship programmes which offered no prospects for the future but which have been in existence for several years. and so how is this program different from the ones we're all familiar with? and if we really want to put an end to precariousness, one of the wounds that most jeopardizes the present and future of these young workers... we need to know from the european commission, please, to understand each other, why in the recent recommendations of the european semester they impose on several countries, such as mine, the flexibility of wages and the implementation of forms of regulation of collective labour agreements? so, to end collective bargaining, one of the guarantors of labour rights. we have to understand that, or we don't understand anything that's going on.
madam president, commissioner, the european union cannot waste the energy, creativity and skills of young people. they are an essential asset for growth and social and territorial cohesion. young people are a solution, not a problem. so the youth unemployment figures are not acceptable. they are even more worrying in the poorer regions and in the low-density territories. the european union, through the youth employment initiative, makes possible the use of eur 6 billion for 2014 and 2015. i have a question for the commissioner: and then, and from 2016 to 2020, what's your proposal? the european union also has programmes such as your first eures job, programmes within erasmus+, and cohesion policy funds, notably the european social fund, which should be used for job creation. but what is needed is the efficient and rapid use of these funds and programmes. we are now faced with a paradox: we have unemployment, but we also have unfilled job vacancies. in order to strengthen its strategic importance in research and the continuous development of knowledge, training provided, in particular through the european social fund, cannot be dissociated from reality or market dynamics. this will be useful for young people and for businesses. in the field of job creation, i would also stress the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises and the attention and favourable environment we should give them. we have funds, we have programmes, we have instruments, but we have to reduce bureaucracy, because only then will we be able to encourage entrepreneurship and the capacity of young people to take up entrepreneurship. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i must have explained myself wrong because i said that we have enough programs, enough resources. i spoke of the youth employment initiative, which has six billion euros. what i also said was that funding and programmes are not enough. they have to be executed quickly, but then each one has to do his homework. then each member state must also reduce bureaucracy, must reduce the obstacles to growth and employment. we have funds, we have programmes, we have afterwards also to reduce all the obstacles to growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first speech in this house. at a time of slight economic growth in the european union, we find that the glaring numbers of young people unemployed and the huge geographical asymmetries that accompany them remain. the figures for the netherlands are as follows: between 7.8% in germany and 56.8% in greece, and 38.1% in portugal. i believe that the time has come to do more for growth in europe and to invest in investment and competitiveness, using the structural funds and the european investment bank funds to boost private investment and job creation for young people. mr andor said that youth employment would be at the top of the political agenda of the new president of the european commission. it is one of the measures, and one of the measures is precisely the extension of the youth guarantee from 25 to 30 years of age, to cover the approximately 6.8 million young people called neets who are not in employment, education or training. i would also go a step further and advocate the use of the european social fund, the erdf and the eafrd, which are essential for the sustainable integration of young people into the labour market. i believe, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that without a stronger commitment to combating youth unemployment, europe will end up condemning an entire generation to social exclusion and the loss of european citizenship itself. is the commission, mr andor, really committed to meeting this challenge?
mr president, i welcome the commission's initiatives today, and particularly the support announced for regions with the highest unemployment rates. in the last legislature, a number of extremely important programmes were launched to combat youth unemployment. however, these responses have not been as successful as we had hoped. in my region, an outermost region, the azores, youth unemployment reaches absurd figures of about 40%. there is therefore still much to be done in creating decent and stable employment. the fight against youth unemployment must be much more than an apology invoked in party struggles. it requires substantiation, commitments and partnerships from the different authors. i believe that we must create guarantees for those over 25 years of age, as is done in my country, portugal, and not only in france, thus also supporting the most qualified young people, who are provided with greater vocational tools and skills, thus promoting mobility in education and at the professional level. i also support the need to link up with small and mediumsized enterprises, to create tax incentives for the recruitment of young people and to develop initiatives to promote entrepreneurship and european start-ups. but combating youth unemployment requires combating social and cultural inequalities in europe, which means that we must also promote excellent education by strengthening vocational education and dual learning, as well as monitoring the programmes created, both in terms of the characteristics of those involved and their effects.
in writing. - as in other cases, including portugal, the process of preparing lithuania for euro membership, by requiring compliance with the strict accession criteria set out in the stability pact, has involved a painstaking exercise in implementing measures and policies with high social and economic costs. contrary to what is said in the report, this process is far from being considered a success. lithuania has been in a deep recession in recent years, with a sharp contraction in the national economy, a loss of purchasing power for workers and the general population, very high unemployment rates and forced emigration of a significant part of its youth. all in the name of miraculous promises that today shows to the satisfaction the situation of countries like portugal never materialize, quite the contrary. the promised gold is a prolonged nightmare, with the loss of important instruments of monetary, exchange rate and budgetary sovereignty, which are now held by the ecb/eu and exercised in the interests of the great powers and their economic and financial groups. we respect the sovereign right of every country to decide its own future. but we are not ignorant of the fact that the majority of the lithuanian population is consistently opposed to this accession. we voted against it.
in writing. - i have presented my favourable position on the adoption of the euro by lithuania on 1 january 2015. the legal conditions for adopting the euro are laid down in article 140 tfeu and protocol 13 on the convergence criteria, which must be fully complied with. according to the commission's convergence reports, all the criteria have been met, and i was therefore in favour of the entry of another member state into monetary union.
in writing. - the euro area is made up of 18 countries that share the same single currency and common economic and budgetary controls, with the aim of ensuring the continued stability of the european monetary area. lithuania is aiming to become the 19th country to join the single currency, and the international monetary fund (imf) has found that the lithuanian financial system is liquid and well capitalised. i therefore vote in favour of lithuania joining the single currency, considering the euro to be a strong and stable currency, which is largely due to the strong action taken by the european central bank (ecb). i would also like to congratulate lithuania on its sound and sustainable public finances, including a budget deficit of 2.1%, a public debt of 39.4% of gross domestic product and an average inflation rate of 0.6%, thus giving the country financial independence conducive to new strategic investments.
in the case of lithuania, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the euro is not used as a currency. in the course of this process the people of lithuania have been subjected to drastic measures with high social and economic costs. contrary to what is said in the report supporting this accession, this process is far from being considered a success, considering the sharp contraction of the national economy, the collapse of wages, the very high unemployment rates and the resurgence of forced emigration. it should also be recalled that this accession was rejected by the majority of the population in a referendum in may 2013. we continue to believe that the process of joining the euro represents an intolerable interference with national sovereignty, preventing national authorities from developing autonomous policies adapted to the specific needs of each country. the subjection of national states to the monetary policies of the ecb, which are heavily conditioned by the interests of the stronger economies in central europe, has been and will continue to be a factor of divergence between the eu economies.
in the light of the recent events in the baltic states, the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the baltic states, the baltic states and the baltic sea. contrary to what is said in the report supporting this accession, this process is far from being considered a success. it is no coincidence that this accession was rejected by the majority of the population in a referendum in may 2013. in recent years, lithuania has been in a period of severe recession, with a sharp contraction in the national economy, a loss of purchasing power of workers, very high unemployment rates and a forced emigration of a significant part of its youth. the will of the lithuanian people must prevail over any other foreign interests.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, to speak of payment expenditure is to speak of investments already made in favour of innovation, research, the promotion of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the promotion of employment. these are expenditure legally incurred with the agreement and at the request of the member states. the beneficiaries are young people, small and medium-sized enterprises, researchers, universities and local authorities. it is not acceptable that these expenditures already made do not have sufficient amounts to be paid. this isn't about saving, this is about paying what you owe. in cohesion policy alone we have over 23.4 billion euros of expenditure already made for which there is no financial availability. all studies show that cohesion policy is making a positive contribution to all 28 member states and their 272 regions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the institutions of the european union must be exemplary in the commitments they make. the payment of expenditure is a commitment which has been made and has been implemented. the failure to pay means, in addition to breach of commitments, a failure to show solidarity with the member states and regions in greatest difficulty. the council must help to solve the problem of payments. failure to do so is to act against oneself, to lose authority and credibility. i therefore hope that the council will contribute to the adoption of the proposed amending budgets which will help to alleviate the problem of payments. and i congratulate the commission on having presented amending budgets which are designed to solve this problem.
mr president, what is born crooked is never straightened. a maxim that could be applied as a glove to the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the eloquent statements on growth and employment that many here make, from the right to the social democrats, are irrevocably shocking to the budgetary poverty they have approved. but even this poor budget is not being met as it should be. the budget deficit is more than eur 23 billion, money owed to the member states, particularly in the area of cohesion, and the lack of which has led to the suspension of several programmes currently in progress. the same countries that are ruthless in extorting interest from the peripheral countries on a largely illegitimate debt are not paying what they owe to the budget of the european union. it is becoming increasingly clear that the current financial framework must be revised as soon as possible, with the appropriate and proper allocation of resources to the budget, without which cohesion, growth and other empty words will be nothing but empty words, which are only to be found in pious and empty speeches, which are increasingly far removed from reality.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a joint resolution on the situation in iraq, which calls on the european union to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in iraq is brought under control. other countries in the region, such as lebanon and jordan, are under the threat of isis. the sectarian policies of the al-maliki government which have contributed to the disintegration of national unity in iraq by refusing to respond to the legitimate needs and grievances of the sunni minority and other vulnerable minorities and groups, fuelling inter-religious rivalries to the point where christians have almost disappeared from the country. the bloody crackdown on protests by sunni populations by the predominantly shiite military in anbar province illustrates the opportunities offered to isis terrorists to gain ground between the tigris and euphrates, with the support of sunni tribal leaders and former baath party members. al-maliki has lost credibility and support in the shia population itself, he must step down and make way for a new government of national unity, he must heed the calls of the international community, without which iraq will not chart a path to security. all major international and regional actors, starting with the united states, iran and the european union, must focus on their shared interest in a stable, united and inclusive iraq. the 30 april elections can produce a national salvation consensus that integrates, with a new government, all major ethnic groups and protects minorities and prioritizes national reconciliation and provides basic services to a displaced population. the european union, for its part, cannot continue to politically divest from the region. it must mobilize to mediate conflicts in the middle east and foster dialogue among all communities in iraq, helping them build governance capacities. it has to talk to iran and saudi arabia, who are the key players in stabilizing iraq and ending the war in syria, and it has to promote the resolution of the shiite-sunni conflict. other strategic countries such as turkey should be involved in the process. and as it is pointed out, and i agree with mr danjean, as it is pointed out in the european parliament's resolution tomorrow, the european union must warn the gulf countries to refrain from continuing to support, directly or indirectly, the war economy of extremist, sectarian and terrorist groups such as isis and others. the european union must direct humanitarian aid to the thousands of refugees and displaced people and must use the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement to include cooperation in the fight against terrorism, ensuring that it is in fact done in compliance with the principles of human rights and the rule of law. it is no wonder that all iraqis seek refuge in the other iraq, which is the kurdistan region, which, despite a serious inherited deficit in fundamental rights and freedoms, has become an example of development, security and stability in the country. the recently announced initiative to organise a referendum on kurdish independence is understandable, given the disaggregation of power in baghdad. however, the unilateral independence process, even if peaceful, will not contribute to the stabilization of iraq and may endanger kurdistan itself, given other acute sensitivities in the region. it is still possible to seek alternative, constitutional solutions for a kurdistan that remains part of iraq. finally, mr president, the war in syria, the risk of terrorist disintegration and terrorist control in iraq mean that we have to make our citizens understand that european security is also at risk. there are thousands of european-born jihadists fighting on the ground. we must demand cooperation from our intelligence and security services to prevent a repetition of tragedies such as the one that recently claimed innocent victims in the jewish museum in brussels. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". you are wrong mr chauprade, we should not compare the two situations even though there are elements in common. i was in benghazi, libya, during the war, and i saw that the international intervention only supported the people of libya who were fighting against an oppressor, a dictator that we did not know and with whom some of us did business. so it's not the same thing at all.
blue card question. what is it? mr couso, since you are invoking memory, why do you only go back to 2003, to a framework which i condemned in your day and which i condemn today as well? why don't you go back further, to the time of saddam hussein? or do you think that saddam hussein was a democrat and not a terrible oppressor of the iraqi people who has a lot to do with what is happening today, because of all the sectarianism and violence induced from within and not just from outside?
eight years ago, colonel peters published in the journal of the american armed forces a peculiar map, something strange at the time. it was called the map of the new middle east, and now, looking back over the years, events, even the most recent ones, take on particular meaning in the light of colonel peters' map. balkanization is an old technique of imperial domination. the weakening of sovereign states, the division of peoples are its instruments, as is the use of criminal mercenary gangs. the army of the self-proclaimed islamic state of iraq and the levant is fighting with weapons and funding provided by the nato powers to the mercenary gangs that have spread chaos in syria. the fragmentation which is taking place in the middle east is affecting all the states which in recent decades have in one way or another proved to be obstacles to the plans for imperialist domination of the region. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the chaos in iraq, the chaos in the middle east is not the work of chance.
acting president of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the members who have spoken for the frank and thorough discussion that we have had. the european union is giving the attention that i believe you have rightly called for. iraq was discussed at the foreign affairs council on 24 june, with a conclusion, and a further discussion on iraq is planned for next week at the foreign affairs council on 22 july. among the issues you have raised, which i believe are of common concern, is that of the unity and territorial integrity of iraq as essential elements for building prosperity that benefits all citizens and promotes stability in the region. the gravity and drama of the situation are obvious to all. in the opening speeches by mr arnaud and mr gomez, there is a reference to the idea of a limited support and the point of an inclusive and unitary governance within this constitution or at any rate a governance that allows us to take up the ranks of a transition to democracy. the issue of human rights, which has been raised in several speeches, is a subject which has historically, but also in this case, been at the heart of the european union's attention, including the point raised in several speeches on the freedom of christian believers in the area. that is why we need a new, inclusive and legitimate iraqi government, and that is what we are doing as the european union. i also wanted to respond to two specific requests that have been made on the question of chemical weapons. intelligence sources confirm that these are not usable weapons. the situation is certainly disturbing in the present chaos, but it is also necessary to stick to the facts that are known. as regards the accusations that have been levelled against turkey as a country for financing isil, we believe that a clear distinction must necessarily be made between suspicions, rumours and facts and between financing that may have come from radical private sources and the government, in this case turkey. it is a distinction that must be kept very clear. the european union is working with the gulf countries to identify and block the sources of funding for isil and other terrorist groups. in conclusion, i would like to express my appreciation, which i believe you share, for the excellent work done by our delegation in baghdad. our colleagues in iraq continue to provide valuable service under extremely difficult conditions.
balkanization is an old technique of imperial domination. the weakening of sovereign states and the division of peoples are its instruments, as is the use of criminal mercenary gangs. the army of the self-proclaimed islamic state of iraq and the levant is fighting with weapons and funding provided by nato powers to the mercenary gangs that have spread chaos in syria. the chaos in iraq, the chaos in the middle east is not the work of chance, but rather the result of the destabilization and interference operations carried out by nato, the us and the eu. these are the ones most responsible.
he asks under the blue card procedure. i'd like to ask mr. lambsdorff two questions. first, he referred to the kidnapping and murder of three young israelis by hamas. this kidnapping and murder were not claimed by any palestinian political organization. the israeli government has not presented any evidence. i wonder how you can make such a claim without proof and without any claim from any political organization. and the second question: do you not think it is a great coincidence that since the oslo accords, every time there has been an attempt to agree on the unity of the palestinian territory between the palestinian organizations, it has always ended in bombing gaza?
attacking gaza in retaliation for hamas's condemnable attacks with disproportionate military force is a violation of international law. it may even reach hamas' operational capacity, but it will sweep civilian neighborhoods, schools and hospitals. the victim parade will feed the narrative and recruit radicals. terror against the people of gaza does not defend the people of israel, nor does it ensure the future of the state of israel. since 2005, israel has blocked borders and movement, controlled water and other resources. israel established and surrounds the concentration camp, hamas is the jailer on duty. both strangle gaza and the viability of the state of palestine and peace in the region. the european union is failing us: it has gone from being a promoter of peace at the time of the venice declaration to paying for the systematic destruction of palestine by israel. the european union must be heard: israel's ground offensive in gaza must be stopped now.
in recent days, more than 150 people have been killed, including children, over a thousand injured and palestinian homes have been systematically destroyed. in the last 24 hours, six un agencies' facilities, including schools and health centers, have been hit, bombed and probably more deaths are happening every hour that we're here. for decades, israel has been unlawfully occupying, repressing, usurping, plundering and permanently humiliating the palestinian people. in the resolution which parliament is likely to adopt, it is unacceptable, cynical and shameful to make the aggressor appear to be the victim and the victim to be the aggressor. to want to be neutral in a situation of state terrorism by an occupying power is the same as being a collaborator and accomplice of that aggression.
acting president of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, i thank the members for this debate. it has been said that the situation is fraught with complexity and i think this debate has borne witness to that. it is also true that, as was said a moment ago, this debate is similar to other debates which i have been able to attend and participate in in this very house as a member of the european parliament. but i believe that precisely because these issues remain, the european union in particular must not only be involved, but must be strengthened. it is in the european union's fundamental interest to support the process towards peace and democracy in the entire middle east region and to help bring an end to the israeli-palestinian conflict, which, until it is resolved, will continue to undermine peace and security at the doorstep of the european union and, perhaps indirectly, also be one of the causes of what is happening within the borders of the european union. the attack on the jewish museum in brussels, at the very heart of the european institutions, was mentioned several times in the previous debate. the violence in southern israel and gaza, which is taking place in a highly unstable region, underlines the urgency of working towards this goal. events show that there will be no final cessation of violence and no lasting peace until the aspirations of the palestinians for statehood and sovereignty and the aspirations of the israelis for security are both met through a negotiated comprehensive peace based on the coexistence of two states. the european union will continue to call on prime minister netanyahu and president abbas to end the violence, resume negotiations and work with renewed determination to resolve the conflict, together with its partners in the international community and the region. the european union has an important role to play in this context, as has been repeatedly stressed today, and it intends to continue to do so in the critical weeks and months ahead.
in writing. the very terms that frame this debate are perverse, misleading and unacceptable. the israeli aggression against the palestinian people, with its criminal military offensive against the gaza strip and its population, is disguised as an escalation of violence between israel and palestine. the disappearance and subsequent confirmed death of three young men from an israeli settlement in unclear circumstances has been the pretext for a campaign of collective punishment against palestinian villages, with the indiscriminate demolition of homes, murders and the arrest of hundreds of people, including dozens of children and members of the palestinian legislative council. the ongoing israeli military campaign is supported by the continued political, diplomatic and military support of the united states and the attitude of the european union, which hides in its silence or conceals, under a false equidistant discourse, the actual complicity with the policy of terrorism of the state of israel. the attempt to rehearse a supposedly neutral stance towards the victim and the aggressor, towards the occupier and the occupier, is nothing but an unacceptable and criminal act of complicity, which cannot go unreported. we express our full solidarity with the palestinian people in their heroic and determined resistance and struggle for national liberation against the genocidal policy of the state of israel.
i am very honoured to be among the promoters of the resolution which the european parliament is due to adopt on this subject tomorrow. the entry into force of the jurisdiction of the international criminal court on the crime of aggression, defined and approved by the states parties in kampala, will enable the establishment of a system that effectively penalizes the unlawful use of armed force and opens up the possibility of criminal prosecution of perpetrators of violence against the territorial integrity and independence of states parties. the introduction of the definition of the crime of aggression into international criminal law is a necessary civilizational advance to strengthen the jurisdiction of the international criminal court, but also vital to update the united nations charter and strengthen the binding nature of un security council decisions. the crime of assault ushered in a new era in the court's jurisdiction. while the court's jurisdiction has so far focused on crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, crimes against individuals and peoples, the criminal jurisdiction over crimes of aggression allows states to be held criminally responsible for the use of military force which is illegal and not sanctioned by the principles of the united nations charter, in particular with implications for the right to self-defence. this is a fundamental civilizational step towards the establishment of a true collective security order. but for that to happen, we need a deterrent, we need to invest ourselves, the european union to invest itself politically in the ratification of the rome statute of the icc and the amendments adopted in kampala by all the states which have not yet accepted the jurisdiction of the court, and in particular those which are our partners in various cooperation agreements. it is also necessary that the mechanisms for activating jurisdiction provided for in the kampala amendments to the statute of the court be used and that the security council commit itself to responsible action in accordance with the charter of the united nations. given the enhanced powers in the matter that give the security council the right to determine whether or not a given event constitutes an act of aggression punishable in the light of international criminal law, which will inevitably raise the bar on whether or not the prosecutor of the court can investigate a case of aggression, then it is vital that the five permanent members do not embark on a strategy of deliberately delaying the prosecutor's work in order to secure immunity for themselves and their allies. a position of the security council is essential in this matter, in accordance with the objectives set out in kampala. the european union, which has built itself up from the rubble left in europe, and not just by nazi germany, must adopt a common position on this matter, as we have called for in this european parliament resolution, without reluctance to act as a bulwark of the icc and the recognition of the crime of aggression.
the future in egypt is very much like the past. last year, we had 1,400 deaths in demonstrations. we have had, since january, 1,247 death sentences for participating in demonstrations. we have had 22 000 people arrested last year also in demonstrations. these are the official statistics. it's not even the data, very likely real data, that's above this. democratic rights are at stake, such as the right to protest or freedom of association. there are arbitrary arrests, banning of political parties. obviously, we must appeal to the egyptian authorities to put an end to these forms of rape and oppression. we must also support the demands of the egyptian people for justice, for freedom, for human rights. the future of egypt must, however, be in the hands of the egyptian people. we cannot allow outside interference. but there is one thing that the european union, that the countries of the european union must do and have an obligation to do, and that is to ban the export of security or military equipment, because it is being used to punish people who are protesting in a normal way, as it should be in any democracy.
the s&d group is calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including the hostages, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. already, at least 2,000 civilians have been killed in 95 attacks since the beginning of this year. many of these crimes are real crimes against humanity that need to be investigated and punished by the nigerian authorities and the international criminal court, which has already opened a preliminary investigation, as nigeria is a state party to the rome statute. the nigerian government, with the help of the european union and the international community, needs to devote all its efforts to protecting its people from these attacks, particularly the women and girls who have been particularly targeted by the hateful boko haram gang. but it also needs to address nigeria's underlying problems, with widespread corruption, including in the armed forces and security forces, the diversion of oil funds, inequality and the lack of respect for the basic rights of the nigerian people. all of these factors contribute to poverty, violence and the rise of radicalism in nigeria. development aid in nigeria must focus on removing the causes of the rise of boko haram.
mr president, it seems that there has been a technical adjustment to paragraph 6. it's the 15th of july instead of the 14th of july. welcomes the election of the new speaker of the iraqi parliament on 14 july 2014. actually this should be changed to the 15th. it is just a technical amendment.
in writing. - this resolution seeks to obscure the eu's responsibilities in the current situation in ukraine. it is trying to hide that it was with the support of the eu, the usa and nato that extreme right-wing forces, openly neo-fascist and xenophobic, representing the most reactionary sectors of the ukrainian oligarchy, carried out a coup d'état and seized power. and it's with that support that they stay there. the objectives and nature of the eu's action are reflected in the immediate signing of the association agreement/free trade area with the coup government and the agreement with the imf, which will further aggravate the already difficult economic and social situation of the country and its people. the support for a coup d'état that has stirred up divisions, incited violence, deprived people of their fundamental rights and freedoms, and led to the resistance of large sections of the population, and the attempted outlawing of dissenting forces, notably the communist party of ukraine, have been condoned. these are all reasons to reject this resolution. in addition, a mystification is being created around the right to self-defence, hypocritically invoking the un charter and the principles of ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity - principles with which we agree - whitening and supporting the continuation of the action of the coup forces.
in writing. - the situation in ukraine is of particular concern to me. i consider it a strategic country in europe, which has been successively harmed by russia. the eu cannot ignore the escalation of the military conflict in eastern ukraine, where russian military personnel are known to be fighting ukrainian forces alongside separatist rebels. the eu-ukraine association agreement and the agreement on a comprehensive and deep free trade area, signed on 27 june 2014, should also be respected and safeguarded. the eu's foreign policy must be at the forefront of unequivocal support for ukraine in the development of a peace plan. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. in some countries, such as greece and spain, more than half of the young people are unemployed. portugal is no better off, despite the recurrent statistical manipulations, aimed at obscuring the fact that the slight statistical decrease in unemployment is due to the bloodshed of emigration, to the increasing number of young people who are forced to leave the country, a situation that is only parallel in the dark years of fascism. on the other hand, the jobs created have precarious employment links, replacing work with rights with work without rights. any resolution that was really intended to change the current state of affairs would have to require a break with the main economic policies in the eu responsible for creating unemployment - which is not done here. the joint resolution, supported by the right and the social democrats, does not refer to the eu-imf programmes as the cause of the massive destruction of jobs and the weakening of social and labour rights. nor is there responsibility for policies embodied in economic governance, the european semester and the budgetary treaty. to omit this central question in such a worrying matter is to mask the problem, to whitewash responsibility. we will not contribute to this hypocritical exercise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on youth employment, so that measures to combat youth unemployment are strengthened. the european parliament called on the commission to propose a european legal framework with minimum standards for the implementation of youth safeguards, for example on the quality of traineeships, decent wages for young people and access to employment services.
in writing. - i know . in may 2014, youth unemployment in the european union reached 22.2%, with over 5 million people without a job. although the unemployment rate has been falling, i believe that these figures are still too high and a social scourge that must be tackled. the european union approved the youth guarantee programme a year ago with a budget of €8 billion and the erasmus+ programme with a budget of €14.7 billion. more than €23 billion is available to support young europeans who should be targeted at reforming the eures employment platform, supporting companies in terms of recruitment and also improving the academic qualification of the new generations. it is essential that european leaders listen to the ideas and proposals that young people are advocating for their own future. i am in favour of the creation of a european platform which will integrate the main political, social and economic movements of european youth. finally, i believe that it is time to promote genuine european mobility programmes, thus increasing the employment opportunities of young people in most of the 28 member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which points out ways and some solutions for combating unemployment among the younger sections of the population. the holistic vision embodied in this resolution well symbolizes the way in which this drama must be tackled: globally, either by using different policy instruments or by using different levels of power - from the local to the european, through to the national and regional levels; involving the private sphere of the economy and the training and educational agents in solving the problem; using a multisectoral vision, not forgetting/putting aside the more traditional sectors of the economy which should complement the new technologies. the strong support of this house for this resolution reinforces the need for the measures envisaged in it to be put into practice as soon as possible by our member states and the european commission. in the name of our youth, for the sake of the future.
in writing. - in this resolution on youth employment we find no critical analysis of the other aid packages applied in the past. no serious analysis is made of the causes of this scourge. several factors are mentioned in a general way, but without any consequence at the level of proposals or lines. in this sense, the preference is still given to outdated solutions which have not contributed in the past and will not contribute in the future to solving this problem. i am referring to the mother of all reasons which lead to the alarming figures of youth unemployment, i.e. austerity policies combined with a systematic destruction of the entire heritage of rights which has been laboriously built up over decades through the struggle of generations of workers. nothing is proposed and nothing is said about the continuation of these same policies, which are publicly accepted by the eu institutions. on the other hand, none of the gue/ngl proposals, which pointed to more consistent solutions, were adopted. in this respect, my vote cannot be other than to reject this report.
in writing. - 23% of young people in the eu are unemployed, with in some countries, such as greece and spain, more than half of young people unemployed. in countries like portugal, there is an attempt to manipulate the statistics, ignoring the fact that the slight decrease in these statistics is due to the bloodshed of emigration, to the growing number of young people who are forced to leave the country, a situation that is only comparable if we go back to the poverty-stricken times of the fascist dictatorship. and by ignoring that the jobs created have precarious employment ties, by substituting work with rights for work without rights. any resolution that was really intended to change the status quo would have to require a break with the main economic policies of the eu responsible for creating unemployment. the joint resolution supported by this majority of parliament does not refer to either the troika programmes or economic governance as the cause of the massive destruction of jobs and the weakening of social and labour rights. to omit the central issue in such a worrying matter is the same as masking the problem, whitewashing right-wing policies and the political forces that, both in portugal and in the eu, have always supported them the right and social democracy.
in the light of the recent events in iraq, the european parliament has decided to call for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including the former president of the european commission, and to call for the immediate release of all political prisoners. firstly, the aggression and occupation of iraq, by invoking the existence of weapons of mass destruction - a confirmed lie, all the more hypocritical when the invaders themselves used weapons of the same type against the iraqis (the case of fallujah), killing many thousands of innocent people and leaving a heavy legacy for many generations. secondly, the dismantling of iraq which the occupying forces have begun by promoting widespread violence, religious fundamentalism and sectarianism, and the sharpening of ethnic divisions as a diversionary manoeuvre in the face of the brutal degradation of living conditions in the country which holds the fifth largest oil reserve in the world. thirdly, the forces occupying several cities in northern iraq are moving out of syria where they served the interests of the us and the eu powers in destabilizing the country, and now heading to other stops but serving the same purpose: to redraw the map of the middle east according to the strategic interests of imperialism.
in writing. - i strongly condemn the attacks on civilian targets such as schools, hospitals and places of worship, the use of executions, and express my deep concern at the deterioration of security conditions in iraq and the humanitarian crisis. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the european parliament.
in writing. - there is a set of facts which this resolution is covering up in order to whitewash the responsibility of the usa and britain for the situation in iraq, seeking to ensure their continued impunity. firstly, the aggression and occupation of iraq, by invoking the existence of weapons of mass destruction - an outright lie all the more hypocritical when the invaders themselves used weapons of the same kind against the iraqis, as in the case of fallujah, killing many thousands of innocent people and leaving a heavy legacy for many generations. secondly, the dismantling of iraq which the occupying forces have begun by promoting widespread violence, religious fundamentalism and sectarianism, and the sharpening of ethnic divisions as a diversionary manoeuvre in the face of the brutal degradation of working and living conditions in the country which holds the fifth largest oil reserve in the world. thirdly, the forces occupying several cities in northern iraq are moving out of syria where they served the interests of the us and the eu powers in destabilising the country, and now heading to other stops but with the same objective: to serve the purposes of drawing the map of the greater middle east that the us wants to impose on the peoples of the region.
in writing. - they say that to watch a crime and do nothing is to be an accomplice. but what can be said of the majority of the european parliament which, in the face of israel's racist and genocidal attitude, calls in the first paragraph of this resolution for an end to rocket attacks on israel from gaza? what can be said about the whitewashing of the aggression of one of the best armed and trained armies in the world against the defenseless palestinians, murdering hundreds of people wherever they may be, men, women and children - no one escapes - and destroying already precarious infrastructure as a result of the criminal israeli occupation, including hospitals and water supply stations? what can we call those who manipulate reality, turning the aggressor once again into a victim, exonerating those who have kept hundreds of thousands of palestinians in a system of isolation, siege and ghettoization, particularly in gaza, where the lack of the most basic needs for human life is increasing every minute in the face of this brutal israeli attack? what can be said of the clear disregard for the human lives of the palestinians which the majority of this parliament reveals with this false equidistance, with a neutrality which conceals support for and connivance with israel?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the escalation of violence between israel and palestine. parliament called on the international community to make serious efforts to relaunch peace talks between israelis and palestinians. in this context, i believe that the european union should play a more active role in efforts to achieve a lasting peace in a conflict which is causing loss of life and suffering to the civilian population on both sides.
in writing. - they say that to watch a crime and do nothing is to be an accomplice. but what can be said of the majority of the ep which, in the face of israel's racist and genocidal attitude, calls in the first paragraph of this resolution for an end to rocket attacks on israel from gaza? what can be said about the blanket attack by the fourth best armed and trained army in the world on the defenseless palestinians, murdering hundreds of people wherever they are, men, women and children - no one escapes - and destroying their infrastructure, including hospitals, water supply stations? what can we call those who manipulate reality, turning once again the beast of aggression into the purest victim, exonerating those who have kept hundreds of thousands of palestinians in a system of isolation, siege and ghettoization, particularly in gaza, where the lack of the most basic needs for human life is increasing every minute in the face of this brutal israeli attack? what can be said about the clear disregard for the human lives of the palestinians which the majority of the ep reveals with this false equidistance, with a neutrality which conceals support for and connivance with israel?
in writing. - this resolution reiterates support for the international criminal court which we do not share. firstly, because it is an international judicial body for the prosecution of crimes against humanity, whose independence is not guaranteed because of its dependence on the un security council, that is to say, its use as a political instrument by the victors against the vanquished, an instrument of the law of the strongest - the example of the ad hoc tribunal for the former yugoslavia is worth recalling. and that statute remains the basis for the existence of this court. secondly, because, as this resolution argues, the rapid harmonization of the national laws of the member states, in order to bring them into line with the kampala amendments and other obligations arising from the rome statute, constitutes an unacceptable attempt to interfere with the internal law of the member states, in particular the portuguese law, its legal tradition and the principles on which it is based. we are referring in particular to the enshrinement in the rome statute of the penalty of life imprisonment, a punishment which does not exist - and we advocate that it should continue to exist - in the domestic law of countries such as portugal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution calling on the european union to support the entry into force of the kampala amendment on the crime of aggression and to support efforts to implement it.
in writing. - this resolution reiterates support for the international criminal court which we do not share. firstly, because it is an international judicial body for the prosecution of crimes against humanity, whose independence is not guaranteed because of its dependence on the un security council, that is to say, its use as a political instrument by the victors against the vanquished, an instrument of the law of the strongest - the example of the ad hoc tribunal for the former yugoslavia is worth recalling. and that statute remains the basis for the existence of this court. secondly, because, as this resolution argues, the rapid harmonization of the national laws of the member states, in order to bring them into line with the kampala amendments and other obligations arising from the rome statute, constitutes an unacceptable attempt to interfere with the internal law of the member states, in particular the portuguese law, its legal tradition and the principles on which it is based. we are referring in particular to the enshrinement in the rome statute of the penalty of life imprisonment, a punishment which does not exist - and we advocate that it should continue to exist - in the domestic law of countries such as portugal.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing here the direct damage to the people of the european union, to european farmers, of a situation which i believe has been created by the irresponsibility of the union's leaders. there was a political problem over which the european union declared economic war, and we are now discussing the damage of that war. the question i ask is this: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. because, mr president, it seems to me, following the methodology of my polish colleague, that yesterday it was a political war, today it is an economic war, and tomorrow it will be a war of what?
i would first like to point out that we are not following the european union in this trade war because we have a double standard vis-à-vis other regions and other countries, such as israel, which has only recently committed crimes and violated basic rules of international law. secondly, i would like to convey to you the deep indignation of portuguese farmers because portugal has experienced three years of troika intervention, has suffered a profound process of internal devaluation with a breakdown in wages - allegedly to revive the competitiveness of its exports - and this embargo has naturally caused numerous losses. because we also have to go to the concrete, to the real situations. when a country like portugal or any other wants to export outside the european area - brazil, russia, whatever - there are months of negotiations, visits by health authorities who go to the countries to assess, finally, the conditions of local production, etc., and therefore this embargo has incalculable losses and therefore the question i have to ask is this: what measures, what response can we give to those agents who have made an effort and who now see their expectations completely disappointed?
mr commissioner, mr president of the council of ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the intervention measures for the milk sector recently adopted to deal with the russian embargo are obviously welcome, but i fear that they may not be enough. there is no doubt that this is a european problem and the repercussions throughout europe will soon be felt with negative effects on the price paid to the producer. if so, the measures adopted so far will not be sufficient. the sector calls for support measures for the promotion and possible exploitation of other markets. it is necessary to speed up trade with some potential partners, but this cannot, of course, set any precedent for the negotiations currently under way. i come from a region, the azores, where milk production accounts for 30% of national production, and for this reason, and because it is an ultraperipheral region, the sector is at serious risk of suffering from this embargo. i would like to appeal to my colleagues, to the european politicians, not to waste this opportunity to question, without prejudice, the end of milk quotas and the consequences that the lack of an effective mechanism for regulating the markets will bring to european milk producers.
mr president, i will be brief just to ask the committee at a privileged opportunity because it is directly related to a document that was recently distributed at the agri meeting on the reaction to be adopted to this russian embargo and the step taken in that document can be read in the information note that in the event of a reduction of, finally, in the event of a decision on direct compensation at national or european level, it may be decided to reduce direct payments to farmers. i think it would be sensible, in the case of difficulties for farmers because of anti-embargo measures, to add these compensations to the direct payments. and i confess that i have this doubt from that meeting of the committee on agriculture. i have already written to the commissioner, but since this is a fundamental instrument for combating the consequences of the embargo - and i understand that from an external point of view there must be a consequence for russia because of what is happening in ukraine - but because these consequences have a direct financial impact on farmers in the compensation that can be awarded to farmers to deal with the problem of the embargo, it would be justified, it seems to me, if one thing did not imply the exclusion of the other, that is to say, if the direct compensation committee decides, these compensations should not reduce direct payments to farmers. and that is what i would like to hear from the commissioner.
mr president, we are in favour of diversifying our trade relations. we are asking that these relations not be governed by purely economic criteria. and so, whatever the elimination of tariffs, etc., naturally this will only create enormous difficulties for these economies, as we painfully know in portugal. and so what we are calling for are other criteria, social criteria, criteria based on respect for human rights, respect for the sovereignty of each country, and logics of complementarity which actually bring mutual benefits to all the countries involved. and finally, i also agree with the question about israel, which is exactly the finished example where i believe the european union should go much further, and not just in labelling, that is just naïveté, because there are many ways around this aspect. an effective embargo, we continue to believe, is one of the possible solutions to solve the problem... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, it is time for the european union to be effective in solidarity with the ukrainian people and in defending international law and peace. russian aggression in ukraine is undeniable and intolerable beyond crimea. russia must assume its increased responsibilities as a permanent member of the un security council, by enforcing the ceasefire and facilitating political dialogue in ukraine, without interfering with the democratic choice of the ukrainian people as to who governs them and the alliances with which they govern themselves, such as the association agreement which this parliament and the verkhovna rada will ratify today. to be effective, the union must commit itself to the enforcement of economic, financial and defence sanctions, ensuring that dual-use equipment does not escape the arms embargo, and must support democratic governance in ukraine, including its ability to invest in the diversification of energy sources, alternatives to the dependence on russia, which must also strategically impose itself on the union. the sanctions are reversible, russia should understand that and understand that we in the european union do not want war, not even cold war, but we do not stand idly by in the face of what putin is instigating and conducting in ukraine, putting european and global security at risk.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are of course obliged to uphold international law and to try to respond as far as possible to the ukrainian aspirations to join the european union, but this does not allow us to underestimate the complexity of the problem, much less to adopt an anti-russian rhetoric with very harmful consequences for international security. as has already been said by several colleagues here, russia is a strategic partner and should also be seen as a strategic partner of the european union, and we need only look at history to understand the need to maintain this relationship. in addition, russia is also a partner, or should be, and has been, in the resolution of some of the major international conflicts we face today. and so what i think we have to do is to strike the best possible balance here, a balance based on firmness, on support for the legitimate claims of ukraine, but also based on constant diplomatic action to promote good relations with russia.
in writing. the situation in ukraine brings us back to some of the darkest pages in european history. the rise to power of forces of an avowedly fascist character, following the coup d'état, was welcomed by the european union, the usa and nato - accomplices in the provocations, the incitement to violence, the violation of fundamental freedoms and rights, the crimes perpetrated by the ultra-nationalist and fascist forces. the interests served by these forces, as in the past, are clear. the recent privatization of the state gas company, approved in an illegitimate parliament, is a case in point. the eu-ukraine association agreement, which the legitimate authorities of the country, in the exercise of their sovereign right, did not want to sign, is now signed with the coup authorities. the agreement will have enormous costs for the ukrainian economy and the people of ukraine, who have been prevented from voting on it in a referendum, as proposed by the communist party of ukraine, and who have been excluded from parliament and are now facing legal proceedings to have it declared illegal. the rhetorical fraud of democracy and human rights, which is so dear to the eu, is now in the open. in the meantime, in conjunction with the usa and nato, it is pursuing an aggressive policy of encirclement of russia which threatens security and peace in europe.
in writing. it is all too evident that the usa, nato and the eu bear enormous responsibilities in the situation in ukraine, because they have already been complicit in the provocations, the incitement to violence, the violation of freedoms and rights and the crimes of the ultra-nationalist and fascist forces who carried out a coup d'état, which was itself promoted by the eu. the restrictions on individual freedoms by the ukrainian government were not mentioned in the ep plenary, nor are they mentioned on the official websites of the european parliament or the european commission. in the last two months, the ukrainian ministry of justice has initiated legal proceedings with a view to the outlawing of the communist party of ukraine, a party significantly represented in the ukrainian parliament. this is an administrative action which is not only the work of state institutions such as the nazi-fascist svoboda party; it's a staged trial to ban the communist party of ukraine. but what does the eu care if this coup government serves its economic and geopolitical interests? history repeats itself and brecht said that first they took the communists, but then they took the others.
in writing. - i support the eu-ukraine agreement because i believe we have a responsibility to support the peoples who are fighting for freedom and democracy and who want to strengthen their ties with the european union. the negotiation of this agreement started in 2007 and was completed in 2012. russian pressure and the withdrawal of the deposed ukrainian government led to the loss of two more years. i also believe that this agreement can be a model for negotiations with other eastern partnership countries. i hope that the eu will be firm in its implementation and will not give in to the blackmail of moscow, which is in practice seeking to make these agreements with the states which russia considers to be in its strategic orbit useless.
in writing. - ukrainian citizens have paid a very high price for their european ambitions. they have suffered a historic number of deaths, have seen their territory occupied and their economy devastated. however, they are always committed to european values, fighting to the end to defend them. ukraine is a neighbouring state of the european union with which we have established important economic relations. the european union must respond to external pressures to ensure not only its territorial integrity but also that of the neighbouring states with which it cooperates. the eu-ukraine agreement is another step towards protecting european interests. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour. i hope that this agreement will help to promote peace and create conditions conducive to closer economic and trade relations leading to a gradual integration of ukraine into the eu's internal market.
in writing. - this recommendation strengthens the eu's relations with the forces which have illegitimately seized power in ukraine. we are one step closer to the process of open us and eu interference in the internal situation in ukraine, promoting destabilisation, actively supporting fascist and neo-nazi political and paramilitary forces and inciting to exacerbate tensions, divisions and schisms in this country. the agreement is one of the most far-reaching agreements ever signed between the eu and third countries, aimed at fully harmonising ukrainian laws with eu standards and rules, an agreement which will affect all areas of ukrainian society, with clear harm to the ukrainian people, without the latter being called upon to express their views, including in a referendum, as proposed by the communist party of ukraine, which is currently being persecuted by the coup power with a view to its illegal status. an agreement with profoundly damaging consequences for the interests of the ukrainian workers and people, for the national interests and sovereignty of ukraine, signed with a government weeks away from elections, aggravated by the implementation by the kiev authorities of the onerous package of submission and austerity imposed by the troika of the us, imf and eu.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. today, simultaneously in the ep and in the ukrainian parliament, and after the speeches of the two presidents, this eu-ukraine trade agreement was voted and approved. it is worth noting that only the gue and the neo-fascist far right were against this agreement. the signing of this agreement comes at a difficult time for ukraine, which has already been deprived of part of its territory and is fighting pro-russian separatists in the easternmost regions of its country. the eu could not leave ukraine to its fate, the risk of a wider conflict is real, but what is at stake here is that the eu also wants peace and at the same time promotes it. a trade agreement cannot be a risk, nor can it be seen as a provocation. ukraine as a sovereign country should be able to sign partnership agreements whenever and with whomever it wants. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the aa is a bad deal for workers in ukraine and eu countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. we propose trade agreements not based on the elimination of tariffs and the imposition of neoliberal reforms. we propose social and environmental criteria and solutions that lead to mutual benefits, while respecting the sovereignty of each country.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. once again, they are trying to push relations to the extreme, not taking responsibility for the situation of almost civil war, so that they can push a country with the support and active participation of the usa and nato. what is at stake here is nato's objective of expanding along the border of the russian federation at any cost, based on the geopolitical exploitation of a sovereign country to ensure the political, economic and military dominance of a region. this resolution ignores it and is another step towards the brutal and open interference of the usa and the eu in the internal situation in ukraine, which are promoting destabilisation by actively supporting fascist and neo-nazi political and paramilitary forces and inciting to exacerbate dangerous tensions in that country. this agreement aims at the full harmonisation of ukrainian laws with eu standards and rules, it sweeps through all areas of ukrainian society, with a clear detriment to the ukrainian people, without the latter being called upon to speak out. an agreement with profoundly damaging consequences for the interests of the ukrainian workers and people, for the national interests and sovereignty of ukraine, signed by a government without democratic legitimacy.
in writing. - i support the eu-ukraine agreement because i believe we have a responsibility to support the peoples who are fighting for freedom and democracy and who want to strengthen their ties with the european union. the negotiation of this agreement started in 2007 and was completed in 2012. russian pressure and the withdrawal of the deposed ukrainian government led to the loss of two more years. i also believe that this agreement can be a model for negotiations with other eastern partnership countries. i hope that the eu will be firm in its implementation and will not give in to the blackmail of moscow, which is in practice seeking to make these agreements with the states which russia considers to be in its strategic orbit useless.
in writing. - ukrainian citizens have paid a very high price for their european ambitions. they have suffered a historic number of deaths, have seen their territory occupied and their economy devastated. however, they are always committed to european values, fighting to the end to defend them. ukraine is a neighbouring state of the european union with which we have established important economic relations. the european union must respond to external pressures to ensure not only its territorial integrity but also that of the neighbouring states with which it cooperates. the eu-ukraine agreement is another step towards protecting european interests. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour. i hope that this agreement will help to promote peace and create conditions conducive to closer economic and trade relations leading to a gradual integration of ukraine into the eu's internal market.
in writing. - this report refers to the long-awaited and long-promoted eu-ukraine association agreement (aa). it is worth recalling that the refusal of the former ukrainian president to sign the agreement at the vilnius summit led to condemnable acts of interference by the us, nato and the eu (including many members of this parliament), which led to the coup d'état that deposed him and the seizure of power by nationalist forces, with an avowedly neo-nazi and fascist character, whose action led to the sharpening of the already deep national and class divisions, leading to aggression against those in the east of the country who resisted the authoritarianism of the illegitimate power. aa is a poisoned gift to the workers of ukraine and the eu countries. the removal of most of the customs barriers, subjecting economies, groups and enterprises with different capacities to so-called free competition will put workers under even more pressure to lower wages and social rights, will lead to the disappearance of thousands of smes and small and mediumsized farmers, and will further aggravate the serious economic and social situation experienced by the ukrainian people. the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a serious matter. we voted against it.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. today, simultaneously in the ep and in the ukrainian parliament, and after the speeches of the two presidents, this eu-ukraine trade agreement was voted and approved. it is worth noting that only the gue and the neo-fascist far right were against this agreement. the signing of this agreement comes at a difficult time for ukraine, which has already been deprived of part of its territory and is fighting pro-russian separatists in the easternmost regions of its country. the eu could not leave ukraine to its fate, the risk of a wider conflict is real, but what is at stake here is that the eu also wants peace and at the same time promotes it. a trade agreement cannot be a risk, nor can it be seen as a provocation. ukraine, as a sovereign country, should be able to sign partnership agreements whenever and with whomever it wishes. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the light of the recent events in the ukraine, the european union is preparing to launch a new initiative to promote the integration of the region into the european union. in this sense, it reveals the complete hypocrisy of the european union, which reserves the right to assess the democratic character of each country in accordance with its own interests. ukraine was not democratic when it refused this agreement with the eu and preferred to negotiate with russia. now, after the illegal coup d'état and with a government that includes fascist parties that are violating all kinds of left-wing opposition, ukraine, which has already been subject to this draconian agreement, has become democratic. despite the fact that this parliament has banned from the chamber the communist party of ukraine, whose parliamentary group consisted of 32 members. we can only vote against it.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. once again, they are trying to push relations to the extreme, not taking responsibility for the situation of almost civil war, so that they can push a country with the support and active participation of the usa and nato. what is at stake here is nato's objective of expanding along the border of the russian federation at any cost, based on the geopolitical exploitation of a sovereign country to ensure the political, economic and military dominance of a region. this resolution ignores it and is another step towards the brutal and open interference of the usa and the eu in the internal situation in ukraine, which are promoting destabilisation by actively supporting fascist and neo-nazi political and paramilitary forces and inciting to exacerbate dangerous tensions in that country. this agreement aims at the full harmonisation of ukrainian laws with eu norms and rules, it sweeps through all areas of ukrainian society, with a clear detriment to the ukrainian people, without the latter being called upon to speak out. an agreement with profoundly damaging consequences for the interests of the ukrainian workers and people, for the national interests and sovereignty of ukraine, signed by a government without democratic legitimacy.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, horizon 2020 is the european engine for growth and jobs. the focus on knowledge, technology and innovation was central to the proposal that jean-claude juncker submitted to this parliament. the words in the european sessions must correspond to the deeds. if this does not happen, the lines of credibility and trust between the institutions are broken, as the commissioner has very well said. the research, science and innovation component of horizon 2020 is expected to be headed by the new portuguese commissioner in the next commission. this new commissioner knows what it means to cut funding for science, research and innovation. the government he was part of in the last three years has drastically reduced public investment in science and innovation and cut research grants by more than 50 percent. i'm just using this example because it's a concrete example. the result is in sight. with these choices, portugal has regressed in gross domestic product and portugal has regressed in highly skilled employment. this is a sign of what can happen if the whole union adopts this strategy. i believe that the new commissioner will not want to repeat in the european commission the policies he has pursued in his country. ensuring timely payment of commitments is your first litmus test. here you will see how much weight you have with jean-claude juncker and the new commissioner for the budget. it is in the interests of the future of the european union that this weight should correspond to the great importance these areas have for competitiveness and cohesion. ambitious policy design associated with horizon 2020 is important. increasing human capital, technological capital and creative capital are necessary but not sufficient conditions for ensuring growth and job creation in the european union. we have to be more demanding in transferring these resources to value creation. we need a new industrial revolution, industrialisation 4.0, based on clean innovation and the cloud, based on the energy union and based on the new digital agenda. what's at stake is what counts. that we start by defaulting on payments is a terrible sign that we cannot tolerate. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr zorrinho wanted to bring national politics here. you forget that we are in the european parliament, but i will take advantage of the opportunity that he has brought us here and ask him if he knows that it was during the socialist party government - of which he was part as secretary of state for innovation - that there was the lowest implementation of horizon 2020 and that, later, as the current government, the implementation of horizon 2020 began to improve, began to grow and have high implementation rates.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. madam president, obviously my colleague who has been in parliament longer knows that during the government of which i had the great honour to be a part there was no horizon 2020 programme. on the other hand, i did not bring the national question here, but i want to bring the national questions. no commissioner will succeed in horizon 2020 if there are no good national policies to promote research, science and innovation, we miss good applications and good executions.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, research and innovation are priorities of the european union which we all consider to be crucial if the objectives of growth and unemployment are to be achieved. the council has also emphasised this priority, which is a commitment set out in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. however, in the 2015 budget the council intends to cut eur 1 335 million for payments under heading 1a, the very one containing the main instruments for growth and employment. the cuts applied to horizon 2020 alone represent more than 41% of the total cuts adopted by the council for this heading. this would imply a decrease for horizon 2020 which would be in breach of the approved multiannual financial framework. the council, once again, says one thing and does another. it says it wants to increase investment in growth and jobs but it does not comply with the agreements, the multiannual financial framework regulation or take on the sufficient amounts and the amounts it has committed to. we should also not forget that research, innovation and smart growth are also present in the cohesion policy funds - and in particular in the erdf and the european social fund - and these have been hit even harder with cuts that make it impossible to pay for expenditure already made, and we are talking about expenditure already made. in the case of payments we are not talking about extra money, we are not asking for more money, what we are asking is that the council pay what it owes. the council has to be credible, to comply with the law, to implement the programmes set out in the financial framework 2014-2020. it must be an exemplary institution.
madam president, how can europeans trust the european union in this council, if a few months after the adoption of the horizon 2020 programme and its budget, boasting with pomp and circumstance that it was in fact the one that would make the european union's commitment to science and innovation to build a development of society, how can they trust if now that the ink that has drawn it up has not yet dried and they are already including cuts of millions of euros, in fact more than 1 500 million euros, just in the chapter of the so-called inclusive smart growth. what's not to like? growth, smart or inclusive? in fact, it seems to me that it is obvious that the council has lost sight of the horizon even long before 2020. but if the news of these cuts is bad for the world of research and universities, there is at least one good news, it comes from portugal, the next commissioner is an expert in blind cuts, he strangles universities, strangles research centres and, in fact, he even has a medal of merit for the troika and this is good news for the council, although it is bad news for researchers.
the funding of science and research in the european union confirms the asymmetric and uneven nature of this process, otherwise we see: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's research policy. on the other hand, the now strengthened horizon 2020 research framework programme continues to serve above all the interests of the great powers and some of their large companies and research units which absorb the bulk of the resources. and so it is that these large beneficiaries can afford to put and dispose of the programme budget. in accordance with their interests, by not paying what they owe when they owe, while countries like portugal remain net contributors to the programme, that is, they pay more than they benefit from. it's also the story of robin hood backwards. that is the whole point of this european union: to take from the increasingly poor to give to the increasingly rich.
horizon 2020 is the linchpin for the growth of europe's scientific, technological and industrial competitiveness. it will have strong positive impacts on society, including job creation. the shortfall in appropriations for this programme must be corrected immediately. pre-financing under horizon 2020 is affected, but also ongoing funding under the 7th framework programme. it is affecting the context of research and scientific production in institutes and universities and, particularly important, it may put small and medium-sized enterprises, which horizon 2020 has targeted very consistently, in serious difficulty. expectations have been generated that cannot be betrayed. i know this situation intimately because i've been a researcher for over 30 years. i have coordinated and been involved in dozens of european projects. this situation may affect the sustainability of research and scientific employment in many countries, including the united kingdom. horizon 2020 was created to ensure sustainable growth rates for the european union. we cannot let society down and the necessary budgetary reinforcement must be found to meet the needs of the programme.
the advances in digital technology have presented us with enormous and irrefutable challenges. in online services, in e-commerce, for example, in the area of copyright, data protection, net neutrality, of course. the response to these challenges obviously requires a joint, community and international approach. but the response to these challenges, some of them complex, must be guided by the unwavering principle of defending the public interest, which must in any event be placed above the pure and simple logic of the market. now this is all that has not happened in two decades of the single market. two decades of propaganda with many promises of job creation, growth and cohesion - all denied by reality. two decades of business over public interest, of market dominance over essential public services, generating poverty and exclusion, exclusion that will inevitably deepen as the single market deepens and expands. that is why the answer to these challenges we have been talking about here cannot be found in this framework. you're demanding a break with him.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and its member states have been at the forefront of the global fight to limit greenhouse gas emissions from the very beginning. the truth is that the european union has been achieving the objectives it set itself. it has not only reduced its emissions, but it has also paid off the financial commitments it had made to developing countries so that they, in turn, would join the global effort to reduce those emissions. reality increasingly leads us to believe that the need to involve our external partners in this process is crucial, in a context where the european union accounts for an ever-decreasing share of global emissions. underlying the climate negotiations are two conflicting development models: one that remains stuck in the past and one that looks to the future. the current economic context has made the transition between these two models much more difficult. the truth is that globalisation results in part from the competitiveness of industry, it results in the loss of competitiveness of european industry vis-à-vis our external partners when they gain advantages through environmental dumping. however, the current costs of investing in research, innovation and the conversion of our means of production as well as in a societal model are far lower than the future environmental costs if nothing is done. as europeans we will always be in a good position to take advantage of the economic opportunities that green growth offers. that is why i believe that the european union's commitment at the next un summit, which will take place this month in new york, should be total and concerted. we must work to get truly ambitious and binding commitments if we are to continue to believe that it is possible to stop the climate change that is taking place. i believe that the path chosen by the european union is the right one.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, mrs lövin has touched on a crucial aspect here: it's just that burning coal is really cheap. the technologies exist, but burning is cheaper, and the question i'm asking you here, given the position of your carbon market advocacy group, a mechanism that has revealed to society its perversity, that has brought us to this situation where burning is cheaper, is whether you are willing to finally change that position and advocate instead of the market approach that you have been advocating, a regulatory approach that replaces the carbon market.
mr president, on the eve of another climate summit, we leave here questions that we have left in the past and which remain unanswered. first, the carbon market. the failure and perversity of this option is quite clear. the measures proposed by the commission to remove excess licences from the market do not solve the underlying problem which persists. when will the market approach they have chosen be replaced by a regulatory approach? secondly, the liberalization and deregulation of international trade. the european union, which claims to be a world leader in combating climate change, is the same one that is pursuing the deregulation of international trade outside the world, thus increasing the flows of energy and material associated with the satisfaction of the most basic human needs. when will this contradiction be resolved? commissioner, in other words, and now that you have the commerce commissioner behind you, have you exchanged a few words about this? have you ever thought about how many tons of co2 are associated with the free trade agreements that the european union is signing around the world?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the negotiations on the european union's trade agreement with canada is a positive development. the economic potential is great and our task is to assess whether an acceptable compromise has been reached. but one thing is clear, commissioner: we must find a political solution to the problem of the isds clauses, a dispute settlement mechanism that threatens the future of the agreements not only with canada but also with the united states and japan. the commission must give an appropriate response, and no response is appropriate unless it is politically feasible. what is the commission's strategy, then, commissioner, for the political problem of isds? can you convince us that each case is a case and that the solution found in ceta is balanced and does not set a precedent? or will the commission finally come up with a comprehensive political response that is valid for the various trade agreements under negotiation? now something has to be done by the commission, and it cannot pretend that the problem does not exist.
mr president, first of all i would like to mention the historical link between canada and my country, and more particularly the azores, because there are many azoreans and azorean descendants living there, who make up a large and successful community, even occupying positions in government. there are half a million portuguese in canada. the result we have achieved is very satisfactory as regards the terms of the agreement and the protection of geographical indications. we have achieved a level of protection similar to that which exists within the european union, and i am particularly pleased with the names of st george's cheese and azores pineapple. i would like to call for this to be a precedent which can set the tone for the negotiations on other agreements currently under way. there are other aspects of the agreement which are not so well regarded, namely the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, but other colleagues have already mentioned it. we have already achieved some successes in negotiating this agreement and we needed to achieve them on other fronts too, notably in the context of the galway declaration for the observation and better knowledge of the atlantic ocean. this text was signed in 2013 between the european union, canada and the united states, and we should be able to ensure its proper implementation... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. this agreement should have been debated in this house and it was not. the full text of the treaty has not yet reached us. this agreement must also be ratified by the member states. we shall see what room for manoeuvre there is in relation to a de facto policy where the negotiations have been conducted in the utmost secrecy, away from this house and the national states. this agreement is a real test case for ttip. we see the same logic in him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to draw your attention to the dispute settlement mechanism through which large multinationals can sue any public entity that interferes with their profits. we already have many examples of treaties of this kind in force in the outside world. philip morris sued the government of uruguay for its anti-tobacco laws. in view of the protest of many personalities and experts in international law, the commission decided to launch a consultation process on this specific aspect in january. it would be interesting to know what the outcome of this consultation is.
mr president, it is a disgrace that a pharmaceutical company charges 60 000 or 50 000 euros for the treatment of a patient with hepatitis c for three months. in portugal, if this medicine were to be administered to all hepatitis c patients, it would mean paying for this medicine the equivalent of the costs of all the medicines now spent in hospitals. what we do know is that patents and the monopoly of patents, along with austerity, are completely killing health systems. and it's not because of innovation, because only 10 percent of the cost of the drug is spent on research. it's not about innovation, it's really about profit, shameful profit. if this 10% were invested in research, it would spare the states and taxpayers the 90% of profits. the commission says it can do nothing about this, about prices. it may not do so on prices, but it may do so on patents. it can help to break up these monopolies, which are being paid for by the states. it can help to break up monopolies, so there is political will.
mr president, the commission is here today to make a statement on access to life-saving medicines in europe. the subject is, of course, prone to pious and kind words, and the commission says that it is concerned about the costs and the difficulty of access to various medicines and, indeed, is astonished at the inequality in that access, and wants to help the member states in this matter. the european commission, the same commission that is part of the troika, the same troika that, for example, in portugal, illegitimately imposed the increase in the price of medicines and the reduction of state co-financing, which resulted in severe limitations on access to medicines. many consumers, especially the elderly and those on lower incomes, now have a choice: either the drugs in the pharmacy or the food. some hospitals have stopped making medicines available to patients in hospital pharmacies. they say, "it helps a lot if you don't get in the way". member states are responsible for the organisation of health services, health systems and the resources allocated to them. we need to tackle the transnational drug companies, but we cannot rely on this european commission to do it... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i believe, and my group believes, mr katainen, that europe can become a continent with future-oriented prosperity and new growth as new competitive assets, and more and better jobs, together with social cohesion. we believe that we can have this continent. nevertheless, the situation today is one of mediocrity, very low growth, stagnation and even the risk of deflation, as you know. we are losing a lot of good jobs, our unemployment is too high and our poverty rate is also too high. so there is a big problem here, and we should not hide from this. we were elected to ensure real change in europe. we were elected to make sure that our top priority would be growth, investment and job creation. but we really want real solutions. so far the solutions proposed by the commission are not working: this is very clear. you are putting your main focus on structural reforms, and particularly on the reform of the labour market. we believe that we need reforms, but not only in the labour market: also in the education system and in the innovation system. many other changes need to be introduced; but much more than that, we need to have a monetary policy supporting growth and a coordinated economic policy supporting demand, and above all we need to have much more forward-looking investment. this means having an active eib and also economic and monetary union which is completed with a banking union, fiscal capacity and a sensible fiscal discipline.
blue-card answer to bill etheridge. – i must say that of course we support entrepreneurship as a main trend which can bring more jobs and growth to europe. we differ completely from your viewpoint because we think that markets should be regulated in order to ensure the best standards. but there is also another big difference, namely that, in our opinion, to go back to growth and jobs does not mean getting rid of the euro. on the contrary, we need to complete the economic and monetary union in order to give all member states the opportunity to go back to growth and to reduce these economic and social divergences we have. we need a proper banking union, more coordination in the euro area and a proper social dimension in the euro area. finally we need to have a sensible fiscal discipline which can create room for manoeuvre for investments. so i think we have quite different views about how to create the conditions for real growth and jobs in europe.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. the words of tomasi di lampedusa could be the motto of the european institutions. the obsession with austerity and what passes here as structural reform is piling up defeat after defeat, causing economic catastrophe and leaving the eurozone on the verge of disintegration. here we talk about investment, job creation, growth, but what is the real alternative? the alternative is more austerity and more structural reforms. but now they have decided to give it a new name: fiscal consolidation for growth or fiscal consolidation for employment. how does this employment-friendly fiscal consolidation differ from recession-friendly fiscal consolidation? not at all! nothing but the name. it seems that here in the european institutions, there is a belief that changing the name of things changes the policy, that no one will notice that the results are catastrophic and disastrous. but that's not the truth. that is not the truth and we are getting worse and worse and worse in economic performance. i know that the fanatics of european eurocracy think that the labour market must be completely deregulated and that public services must be privatized to the last, and they think that people have patience for all this, but they are mistaken. people are losing their patience. there is no patience in european citizens. and if you keep this up, you're really gonna have to find another continent to continue your experiments.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that the european union has pursued a dogmatic and synchronised austerity policy, and that policy has caused recession, and recession has been followed by deflation and stagnation. six years after the 2008 crisis, the miracle didn't happen. on the contrary, unemployment, recession and poverty have worsened, especially in some economies that are increasingly distant from the central economies. the crisis today is no longer global. the united states, which was the epicenter of the crisis, has emerged from it. the crisis today is european and is the consequence of the policy choices we have made. today we are also in a situation of urgency, urgency in changing these policies. the european central bank has exhausted the instruments at its disposal, but liquidity cannot be turned into credit for businesses if the recession kills business opportunities. the new commission president was elected with the promise of change, a new beginning, a hope that words would turn into deeds, as has not happened so far, and we keep repeating the same words. unfortunately, the new architecture proposed to the commission and some of its interpreters do not give us confidence that this promised change will materialize. we hope that the clarification before and during the hearings will allow us to trust again that the project is different, and we also hope that the next eurozone summit will not be a flight from reality: the reality is an emergency situation and action must be urgent and not be confused with the same words...
mr president, i would like to greet the council representative. i would also like to congratulate the commission. and i would first of all like to say that there is no doubt about it, and we have always supported it, but that at this stage in the new commission's work we must give absolute priority to policies for growth and job creation. and that, of course, this must be taken into account by all the countries of the european union, but particularly by those in the eurozone, where the need to give this support to growth and employment and to make this priority a practical political reality is actually more clear in the eurozone than in other countries of the european union. in any case, i think it is also essential, first of all, not to give in to the demagogy that has just been used in this house, to say that everything that is behind is badly done, to try to demonize the new commission itself, which is the result of the votes of the electors, whether at european or national level, and we must respect the votes of the electors, because it is essential to understand the following: without sound public finances and without structural reforms in many of the euro area countries, however much money we use for job creation or we use for growth policies, it will eventually be thrown away because it will not be used, and we have a responsibility to think that growth and employment policies also have to, of course, be in line with structural reform policies and previous sound public finance policies.
mr president, now that the elections are over and the oaths that the euro crisis is over are confronted with the hard reality and that everyone is now recognising that the crisis is here to stay, the people of europe are faced with two options: either more of the same, and it has become clear here today that this is the intention of the commission and the majority of this parliament, or the change that is needed. this change is accompanied by a discussion on the role of the ecb, with a view to a fundamental change in its statutes and guidelines, its false autonomy, and the restoration to the states of the power of decision on central issues of the functioning of their economies, as well as control of the monetary instrument, on the creation of a programme of support for countries whose stay in the euro has proved to be unsustainable and which provides for the appropriate compensation for the losses caused in the framework of a negotiated exit from the single currency, by the start of the discussion process aimed at the dissolution of the economic and monetary union, the extinction of the stability pact, these instruments being replaced by intergovernmental agreements between states which wish to pursue the objective of economic and monetary integration in a sovereign and free way.
we are once again discussing the same problem here, and unfortunately nothing has changed in recent times. much publicity has been given to this programme to show the good intentions of the european union. the same european union which forces countries and peoples to destroy themselves by paying debts that are unpayable, instead of investing their wealth, the wealth of their labour, in boosting their economy, in their development and in job creation. but we must say that prospects have been created for millions of young europeans who have no prospect of achieving a worthy life project. it is imperative that the implementation of this initiative be given priority in practice. we need to act quickly and urgently, but we also need to ensure that this programme is no more than what has already been happening en masse in recent years and what most young people are so familiar with: precarious employment, emigration, temporary employment schemes, low-paid traineeships without social protection rights, part-time work. thank you, we don't want that. we've seen that before. we don't want that. what is required is that the beneficiaries of this programme, the companies, give guarantees, not temporary, but real and genuine, of stable, dignified and entitled contracts. what is also needed is that this programme should under no circumstances be used as a pretext for cutting back on the existing national social and labour protection mechanisms which are acquired rights in these countries. there is a generation in entire countries that is desperate and that is tired of being exploited and no longer needs words.
madam president, the european union must take advantage of the full potential of young people, and young people are a solution, not a problem. it is recognised that the european union has several youth support programmes and has, for example, set aside eur 6 billion to be used this year and next for the youth employment initiative. in this connection, with regard to the youth employment initiative, i would ask the commission: what amounts have been used this year? how much do you plan to use next year? and i ask the council: you're not gonna cut back on payments for this initiative like you've done on other initiatives? and i ask you again: and after 2015, from 2016 to 2020, are you going to end this youth employment initiative program or are you going to provide it with money, with funding, with funding so that this program continues? programmes that support youth employment are an investment, not a cost. the european union must contribute to these programmes which are a valuable addition, as is the case with the youth guarantee. at the same time, it is necessary to create a favourable environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. there is a need to avoid cuts in programmes for growth and jobs cuts in cosme, horizon 2020, erasmus +. these cuts must not be made if jobs and growth are to be a reality in the european union.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 provides that 0,5% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the european commission (ec). i agree with the european commission's proposal to mobilise eur 330 000 to cover technical assistance costs to the commission, with the aim of following up applications received and financed and proposed and implemented measures, expanding the website and translating new elements into all the languages of the union, increasing the visibility of the egf, producing publications and audiovisual media, providing administrative and technical support to the member states. this funding will contribute to the simplification of the application processes which will allow better access to relevant data, knowledge sharing and information via the website, leading to a more efficient future implementation of this fund.
in the case of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the express objective is the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the liberalization and deregulation of world trade. these are unacceptable costs, determined and exploited by those who have brought us into the deep economic crisis we are in and who use it as an argument for the deepening of precariousness and the exploitation of workers. in december 2013, the negotiations to amend the egf regulation gave negative results, with the annual ceiling being reduced from eur 500 million to eur 150 million, while the scope of the egf was broadened. the report agrees with the measures proposed by the european commission to finance technical assistance, in particular the mobilisation of eur 330 000 for monitoring, information, the creation of a knowledge base/interface and advice to member states on the use and evaluation of the egf, although the regulation targets up to 0,5% of the annual maximum amount of the egf (eur 750 000). the report considers that the fund would be more effective and have a much greater impact if the allocation criterion was increased from 500 to 200 workers, and also insists on increasing the total resources to at least eur 500 million. we support it.
in writing. - the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of low labour costs in a number of countries, including china, india and pakistan, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. in this case, the commission requested the mobilisation of the egf to cover expenditure on technical assistance to follow-up on applications received and funded and measures proposed and implemented, to expand the website and translate new elements into all union languages, to increase the visibility of the egf, to produce publications and audiovisual media, to create a knowledge base, to provide administrative and technical support to member states and regional authorities and not to require funds for evaluations in 2014.
in writing. - we regret that in december 2013 the negotiations for the egf produced negative results, with the annual ceiling being reduced from eur 500 million to eur 150 million, while at the same time increasing the scope of the fund. this report agrees with the measures proposed by the commission for the financing of technical assistance, in particular the mobilisation of eur 330 000 for monitoring, information, the creation of a knowledge base/interface and advice to member states on the use and evaluation of the egf. the regulation, however, points to up to 0.5% of the maximum annual amount of the egf (eur 750 000), also stressing the need to strengthen the link between all those working on egf applications, including in particular the social partners and stakeholders at regional/local level, and considers that the fund would be more effective and have a much higher impact if the award criterion was increased from 500 to 200 workers, also insisting on increasing the fund to at least eur 500 million.
in the case of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the official stated objective is the reintegration of workers made redundant who have suffered the unacceptable socioeconomic costs of the liberalization of world trade, which is exploited by those who use the economic, financial and social crisis as the unassailable argument for the deepening of workers' precariousness and insecurity. in december 2013, the negotiations for the egf produced negative results, with the annual ceiling being reduced from eur 500 million to eur 150 million, while the scope of the egf was increased. the report agrees with the measures proposed by the european commission to finance technical assistance, in particular the mobilisation of eur 330 000 for monitoring, information, the creation of a knowledge base/interface and advice to member states on the use and evaluation of the egf, although the regulation targets up to 0,5% of the annual maximum amount of the egf (eur 750 000). the report considers that the fund would be more effective and have a much greater impact if the allocation criterion was increased from 500 to 200 workers, and also insists on increasing the total resources to at least eur 500 million. we support it.
- the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 6096 000 for greece to support the 508 workers, potential beneficiaries, who were made redundant following the layoffs at nutriart sa.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers made redundant following major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. this mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece is intended to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by nutriart, its suppliers/producers and the cessation of activity of 24 self-employed workers, totalling 508 persons, and is for a total amount of eur 6 096 000 of the egf. i voted in favour.
in writing. - following redundancies at nutriart sa, the greek authorities submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund on 5 february 2014. these are redundancies in 25 suppliers and downstream producers and the cessation of activity of 24 self-employed workers whose activity depended on the main company in greece, 508 of the potential workers being beneficiaries of the measures co-financed by the egf. the vast majority of the targeted workers are aged between 30 and 54, in a country where the unemployment rate remains at an all-time high of around 27% of the active population, with the affected regions of attica and central macedonia already at 28% and 30% respectively. this is one of the most bitter and painful aspects of the policy of the european union and of the governments which are submissively applying it. once again, we have agreed to the rapid mobilisation of this aid because it is important to support these workers. however, we reiterate our fundamental criticism of this instrument, since it would be necessary to ensure measures to prevent unemployment, in particular the reversal of the neoliberal course of eu policies leading to such outcomes.
in writing. - the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to greece, which submitted an application egf/2014/001 el/nutriart for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies at nutriart s.a. in 25 suppliers and downstream producers and the cessation of activity of 24 self-employed workers whose activity depended on the parent company in greece (with 508 of the potential workers being beneficiaries of the measures co-financed by the egf) during the reference period from 16 july 2013 to 16 november 2013.
in writing. - the greek authorities submitted the application for financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund on 5 february 2014 following redundancies at nutriart s.a. which led to the unemployment of hundreds of workers. most of the targeted workers are aged between 30 and 54, in a country whose unemployment rate remains at an all-time high of around 27% of the working population. we agree to the rapid mobilisation of this aid because it is important to support these workers. however, we reiterate our criticism of the fund, as it would be necessary to ensure measures to prevent unemployment, in particular the reversal of the neoliberal course of eu policies, in particular those that lead to outcomes such as this, such as the insistence on deregulation and liberalisation of international trade.
in writing. - following redundancies at nutriart sa, the greek authorities submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund on 5 february 2014. these are the redundancies in 25 suppliers and downstream producers and the cessation of activity of 24 self-employed workers whose activity depended on the parent company in greece, 508 of the potential workers being beneficiaries of the measures co-financed by the egf, during the reference period from 16 july 2013 to 16 november 2013. the vast majority of the targeted workers are aged between 30 and 54, in a country where the unemployment rate remains at an all-time high of around 27% of the active population, with the affected regions of attica and central macedonia already at 28% and 30% respectively. we agree to the rapid mobilisation of this aid because it is important to support these workers. however, we reiterate our criticism of the fund, as it would be necessary to ensure measures to prevent unemployment, in particular the reversal of the neoliberal course of eu policies leading to such outcomes.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 3571 150 for romania with the aim of supporting 1000 workers, potential beneficiaries, of the 1513 workers made redundant in the company sc mechel campia turzii sa and a downstream manufacturing company (sc mechel reparatii targoviste srl).
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant following major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. this mobilisation of the egf in favour of romania is to support the reintegration into the labour market of 1523 workers made redundant by the steel company mechel campia turzii and suppliers due to a sharp drop in orders for its products, with buyers of its products opting to buy from companies in china. this mobilisation is for a total amount of eur 3 571 150 from the egf. i voted in favour.
in writing. - there was a lot of talk in the last european parliament elections about the need to combat unemployment. a few months later, here we are, assessing five petitions in support of the layoffs of hundreds of workers. this application concerns 1513 redundancies in the steel products manufacturers mechel campia turzii and mechell reparatti targoviste. these companies were based in the municipality of campoia turzii, romania, and were the largest employer in the region the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the steel industry in the community. once again, the so-called structural changes in world trade patterns read capitalist globalisation, promoted from the outset by eu policies and the decline in the eu's market share in the steel products sector and the increase in the share of countries such as china are the justification for this social crime. we know that what is behind these mass layoffs is capitalism's need to have a cheaper and more docile army of labour, which will allow the cost of labour to be lowered, thus increasing exploitation and profit. it is increasingly necessary to break with these policies, and to take back the dignity of all those who make a living from their work.
in the case of the european union, the european union is a space of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to romania, which submitted an application egf/2012/010 ro/mechel for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1513 redundancies: 1 441 during and after the reference period at mechel campia turzii and 72 at mechel reparatii targoviste (with 1000 potential beneficiaries of the measures co-financed by the egf), during the reference period from 20 june 2012 to 20 october 2012.
in writing. - this application is intended to support 1513 workers made redundant by the companies mechel campia turzii and mechell reparatti targoviste, manufacturers of finished and semi-finished steel products. these companies were the largest employer in the region they employed about one third of the total workers in the region. structural changes in world trade patterns, the decline in the eu's market share in the steel products sector and the increase in the share of countries such as china are the justification for this social crime. once again, it is the workers and their families who are paying for a crisis they did not cause, and seeing their rights trampled on and taken away. it is increasingly necessary to break with these policies and restore dignity to the men and women who earn their living.
in writing. - i know . the new parliament, which was elected in may 2014, has been elected and has spoken of the need to put an end to unemployment and rampant poverty. here we are, evaluating five applications for support for the dismissal of hundreds of workers. this application concerns 1513 redundancies in the steel products manufacturers mechel campia turzii and mechell reparatti targoviste. these companies were based in the municipality of campoia turzii in romania and were the largest employer in the region - the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the steel industry in the community. once again, structural changes in world trade patterns and the decline in the eu's market share in the steel products sector and the increase in the share of countries such as china are the justification for this social crime. but we all know that what is behind these mass layoffs is capitalism's need to have a cheaper and more docile army of labour, which will allow it to lower the cost of labour, thus increasing its profit. it is increasingly necessary to break with these policies and restore dignity to the men and women who earn their living.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 960 000 for spain to support the 208 workers, beneficiary powers, of the 904 workers made redundant in 661 enterprises in the aragon region.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant following major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. in order to mobilise the egf, spain submitted an application following the redundancies of 904 workers in 661 enterprises in the catering sector, which were caused by a significant decrease in the consumption of food and drink due to the economic downturn, an increase in tax revenues, in particular vat, and wage cuts. in this mobilisation of the egf for spain, eur 960 000 was granted to help reintegrate workers who had lost their jobs in the aragon region. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this application arises from the dismissal of 904 workers in 661 enterprises in the region of aragon, spain. these are companies in the catering sector. according to the spanish authorities, the main factor responsible for the redundancies was the significant decrease in the consumption of food and drink products, in particular outside the home, due to the economic recession, the increase in vat revenues and the reduction in wages. we are therefore not facing a natural disaster, but the results of concrete policies which have brought us to the economic and social crisis we are experiencing; which have promoted the processes of concentration and centralisation of capital under way, the search for easy profit, the reduction of wages and pensions, the withdrawal of rights hard won by workers over more than a century of struggles. policies which also involve the deregulation of world trade - the reason for the procession of relocations and redundancies we have seen. as in the past, misery and injustice are rampant. but there is also a growing awareness that only through struggle can we break with the neoliberal policies that are driving us to the bottom of the abyss.
in the case of the european union, the european union is a space of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to spain, which submitted an application for egf/2014/003 es/aragon restoration for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 904 workers in 661 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 56 (restoration) in the nuts ii region of aragon (es24) (with 280 potential workers benefiting from the measures co-financed by the egf) during the reference period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013.
in the region of aragon, spain, 904 workers were laid off in 661 restaurants, mainly because of the decline in consumption of food and drink products due to the economic recession, the increase in vat revenues and the reduction in wages. today, several generations are faced with misery. despair is growing. discredit and discouragement flourish. this fund is only a palliative, but it could serve to alleviate some of the suffering of these people.
in writing. - the application we are considering arises from the dismissal of 904 workers in 661 enterprises in the region of aragon, spain, enterprises in the catering sector. according to the spanish authorities, the main factor responsible for the redundancies was the significant decrease in the consumption of food and drink products, in particular outside the home, due to the economic recession, the increase in vat revenues and the reduction in wages. these are facts which have not appeared without warning and are the result of the economic and financial crisis and the processes of concentration and centralisation of capital which are under way, the search for the easiest way of making a profit, which involves reducing wages and pensions, the withdrawal of rights which have been hard won by workers over more than a century of struggles and enormous sacrifices by workers and their families. today, several generations are faced with misery. despair is growing. discredit and discouragement flourish. but, as in the past, there is also a growing awareness that only through struggle is it possible to break with the neoliberal policies that are driving us to the bottom of the abyss.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 625 781 for the netherlands to support the 475 workers, potential beneficiaries, following the redundancies in 89 companies in the regions of gelderland and overijssel.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the netherlands submitted an application for an egf financial contribution following redundancies in 89 companies active in the construction industry in the adjacent regions of gelderland and overijssel, with 475 targeted workers, linked to the global financial and economic crisis, pointing out that the policy of the banks to apply stricter rules to the granting of mortgage loans and credits has significantly reduced the granting of these loans, while the austerity measures of the government to reduce the public debt and the budget deficit have resulted in a decrease in public expenditure and a sharp fall in prices and values in the housing market, which makes it difficult to buy and sell houses. in this mobilisation of the egf for the netherlands, eur 1625781 was granted. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. - another mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has been launched. another few hundred workers victims of capitalist globalization. this time it was the netherlands that submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 89 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 'building' in the adjacent regions of gelderland and overijssel, with 475 potential workers benefiting from the measures co-financed by the egf. the fund aims to reverse the consequences of the deepening of the liberalisation of world trade and its continued deregulation which are contained in the general orientation of eu policies, which are ruining many businesses, pushing jobs into precariousness and unemployment. the egf, while providing important support for workers, is not a solution and does not excuse, much less make acceptable, the neoliberal policies in force. the netherlands was one of the most critical countries in extending the scope of the fund, which initially applied only to cases linked to the consequences of globalisation, and even opposed (in the council) the extension to cases whose consequences resulted from the global financial and economic crisis. however, it was one of the countries that most used the egf for the reason that it had previously rejected.
in the case of the european union, the european union is a space of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of egf/2014/002 nl/gelderland-overijssel construction, following redundancies in 89 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 41 (building) (4) in the nuts 2 regions of gelderland and overijssel, with 475 workers targeted for the measures co-financed by the egf, during the reference period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013.
in writing. - the proposal is intended to alleviate the situation caused by the dismissal of 475 workers in 89 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 'building' in the contiguous regions of gelderland and overijssel. the consequences of the deepening of the liberalization of world trade and its continuing deregulation are contained in the general orientation of eu policies that ruin the survival capacity of enterprises, pushing work into precariousness until its extinction. we note that the netherlands was one of the most critical countries with regard to the extension of the scope of the fund, which initially applied only to cases linked to the consequences of globalisation, and even expressed itself (in the council) against the extension to cases whose consequences resulted from the world financial and economic crisis. however, interestingly, it was one of the countries that used the egf the most, citing the reason it had previously rejected.
in writing. - this time, it was the netherlands that applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following redundancies in 89 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 building construction division in the contiguous regions of gelderland and overijssel, with 475 potential workers benefiting from egf co-financed measures. the fund aims to reverse the consequences of the deepening of the liberalization of world trade and its continuing deregulation which are contained in the general orientation of eu policies that ruin the survival capacity of enterprises, pushing work into precariousness until its extinction. the fund, while at first providing important support for workers, is nevertheless the mercy that allows big business to continue to spread the neoliberal policies that have led to the recession and the historic rise in unemployment. the netherlands was one of the most critical countries in extending the scope of the fund, which initially applied only to cases linked to the consequences of globalisation, and even opposed (in the council) the extension to cases whose consequences resulted from the global financial and economic crisis. however, it was one of the countries that most used the egf for the reason that it had previously rejected.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 700 000 for spain to support the 587 workers made redundant in three companies in the wood and cork industry and their works in the region of castilla y leon.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. spain submitted an application for the egf, following the redundancies of 587 workers in three companies in the wood and cork industry and their works in the region of castilla y león in spain during the reference period from 28 december 2012 to 28 september 2013, linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, by referring to the fact that the volume of exports of construction woodwork and joinery from the eu-27 decreased by 10,33% in the period 2008-2011. this mobilisation of the egf in favour of the region of castilla y león in spain was granted for a total of eur 700000. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the application in question arises from the dismissal of 587 workers in three companies in the wood and cork industry in the region of castile and leon in spain. this severely affected the labour market in the region, with the unemployment rate rising from 8.2% to 22.70%. once again, the changes in the structure of world trade that result from globalization - in the self-justifying jargon of this european globalisation adjustment fund, whose very existence is a living libel against capitalist globalization, even if it is meant to excuse and make it acceptable - are held responsible for plunging these workers and their families into a world of uncertainty. we're approving palliatives that, while necessary, are not the answer. we need a different direction for europe, one that puts social justice and the welfare of the people at the heart of its policies and that promotes the right to work with rights, wages and pensions. the way is the struggle of the workers and the peoples.
in writing. - the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to spain, which submitted an application egf/2013/010 es/castilla y león for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 587 workers in three enterprises in the wood and cork industry and their works (4) in the nuts ii (es41) region of castilla y león in spain during the reference period from 28 december 2012 to 28 september 2013, with 400 workers made redundant expected to participate in the measures.
in writing. 587 workers were recently laid off in three companies in the wood and cork industry in the castilla y leon region of spain, causing the unemployment rate to soar from 8.2% to 22.70%. the changes in the structure of world trade resulting from globalisation are blamed for plunging these workers and their families into a world of uncertainty. we are adopting palliative measures which, if necessary, are not the solution, but a different course for europe is needed, a course which places social justice and the welfare of the people at the centre of its policies. for this to happen, it is necessary that peoples continue to transform despair and discouragement into a river of will, capable of building a more just and fraternal world, where people, not money, reign supreme.
in writing. - the application in question arises from the dismissal of 587 workers in three companies in the wood and cork industry in the region of castile and leon in spain. this severely affected the labour market in the region, with the unemployment rate rising from 8.2% to 22.70%. once again, the changes in the structure of world trade resulting from globalisation are blamed for plunging these workers and their families into a world of uncertainty. we're approving palliatives that, while necessary, are not the answer. we need a different direction for europe, one that puts social justice and the welfare of the people at the heart of its policies and that promotes the right to work with rights to decent wages and pensions, among other rights that workers have won over more than a century. for this to happen, it is necessary that peoples continue to transform despair and discouragement into a river of will, capable of building a more just and fraternal world, where people, not profit, reign supreme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there was a vote here which was the expression of a substantive will of this parliament. i voted against signing that trade agreement with ukraine, but i was not coerced by anyone and no member of the house who voted against or for it obviously felt coerced. the political act embodied in that vote is irreversible. the vote on the minutes is a mere formal and administrative act which can only be refused if the minutes do not contain the elements or do not accurately report what has happened here. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. i think there's a dangerous confusion brewing right now.
mr president, we join those who consider this epidemic, which threatens to take on pandemic proportions, as one of the most important public health threats of our time. i am talking about health threats because, in reality, and without minimizing this worrying phenomenon, the fact is that imperialist wars, fueled by the military industrial complexes of the capitalist powers, combined with austerity policies, continue to represent by far the greatest social and humanitarian scourges of our time. the countries concerned, namely sierra leone, congo, liberia, guinea and nigeria, have suffered for years under the yoke of colonialism, followed by the imperialist yoke. these are countries where the imf, with its neoliberal prescriptions and its ruinous loans, does not have the conditions at present to deal effectively with this epidemic. the european union and the united states, in the name of a debt of the past, have a moral obligation to contribute to an effective plan for controlling the disease. i shall end, and i apologize in advance to the most sensitive ears for noting the differences between the united states, which sends military personnel, and the socialist republic of cuba, which sends doctors who will be working as of 1 october.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank everybody who has spoken today. let me first start with the question of whether europe acted quickly. from the humanitarian side, it did. we were the first to bring financial support and to send our own staff – our own doctors are there risking their lives – to mobilise attention to this epidemic. since march when it started, we have been repeatedly giving a very straightforward message from the humanitarian side. this is serious. we have to act in a coordinated manner. already in august, together with the world health organisation, we approached our member states by activating the civil protection mechanism asking for support in kind for the affected communities. very often we in the humanitarian community are like the canary in the mine. we feel trouble and we sense danger before the rest of the world understands the magnitude of this danger. but it is also true that the international community as a whole has not been quick enough to respond to calls, from the doctors in the field and especially from médecins sans frontières, the organisation that has been right there from day one. it has taken some time for the world to recognise – even the world health organisation if i am to be very honest – that this is very serious and requires a massive response. i want to praise our member states because in the last weeks we have seen a surge in reaction from them: just to give you some examples, austria with protective equipment, italy with a field hospital, the united kingdom and france with new centres to be opened and more beds to be provided, hungary with assistance in kind, spain with an emergency unit in the kenema province in sierra leone, etc. our military staff are also looking into how they can contribute – today and tomorrow – to the critical evacuation capability of which many of you have spoken as a crucial need for the medical professions in the field but also, broadly speaking, for evacuation capacity. so we are now finally seeing mobilisation on a global scale. but we also have to stay focused, because in today’s world we are facing crises competing with each other for attention and for resources. not including ebola, we have four level 3 emergencies – this is the highest possible level in humanitarian terms in the world – iraq, syria, the central african republic and south sudan. i would like to respond immediately to those of you have said that we have to create more flexibility in the budget in order to direct funds very quickly to where early action will save lives, but also to reduce the cost, the human suffering and the financial cost of response in the future. i hope that we will work sooner rather than later on this flexibility of response in a more fragile world. i was asked how this virus is spreading. well, it is through the handling of infected chimpanzees, gorillas, monkeys, porcupines, but at the moment we are not seeing it as a danger for the rest of the world because we are not seeing that kind of movement of products. also the virus dies, so from the time between a problem arising and its possible arrival in europe, we do not have a danger. this is what the medical profession is telling us. and also a very direct question: is the opening up of travel a risk for europe? let me first state something you may or may not know: that msf do not have a single case of their international staff being infected by ebola, and they are there, they are in the middle of it. in other words, ebola is controllable. it means washing your hands, making sure that you sanitise before you get on the plane, and of course our airlines are doing that, so i think that we are very strong in our precautionary measures, and therefore we should not worry that keeping this line of communication open is going to be a danger. on the contrary, if we stop this ability to send more medical doctors to these countries and to bring out our nurses and doctors from the most dangerous zones, then the epidemic is going to explode and then the danger to us may – may – become real, because the longer we do not fight, the bigger the risk of this virus mutating. we have been asked about vaccines and using research. at the moment, there is very aggressive deployment of all that has been developed in terms of vaccines and treatment so that we can provide help to people who are infected. but let us be very fair and straight on that: quantities are limited. so can we help everybody who needs help today? the answer is no, and this is why we have to make every effort possible to fight ebola at origin, now, and do it in the most aggressive way we can. my last point is on coordination. i could not agree more that coordination saves lives. we finally have a very strong coordination mechanism from the united nations, with dr nabarro, who is an exceptional professional, and the deployment of the best who staff. but we must also coordinate our own contribution, because if all of us, 28 member states plus the commission, try to help individually, we are putting unnecessary pressure on those who are taking life-saving action today. i am proud to say that last year with your support we created an emergency response coordination centre which is providing a platform for europe to act as one when the need comes, and this is the moment of such need.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to assure you that the council will continue to treat ebola as one of the highest priorities of its forthcoming work and i would like to thank the commission and commissioner georgieva for their work and also for the clarity with which, also in the reply, they reiterated their commitment and the points for concrete action. at the operational level, the needs on the ground remain substantial and include medical and humanitarian personnel, as well as laboratories, hospitals, etc. other health needs are becoming an even bigger problem due to the collapse of health systems in liberia and sierra leone. there are also shortcomings in food and nutrition, agriculture, governance and security. all of these factors can create instability that in turn can contribute to the spread of ebola. further preparedness initiatives should cover all african countries, starting with those most at risk. next week, on 24 september, on the sidelines of the un general assembly, the eu foreign ministers together with international partners and the un will discuss and coordinate the further response to the crisis. we now have a functioning eu response framework to protect eu citizens against cross-border health threats. health services in eu member states are fully aware of the possibility of ebola virus patients arriving in europe and are doing everything possible to prepare for this eventuality, although at present the risk of contracting the disease for eu residents and those travelling to affected countries is considered low. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the ebola epidemic affecting west africa is taking on increasingly alarming proportions. the relative passivity with which the more developed countries and the european union have dealt with this problem has contributed to a staggering loss of human life. this is unacceptable and our duty to help is a moral imperative! affected african countries lack health systems that can respond to this disease without it taking on catastrophic proportions! the absence of more vigorous action increases the risk of the spread of the disease and makes it more difficult to control, requiring ever-increasing operational means and scarce containment infrastructure. moreover, the closure of borders and the restrictions on transit to and from the countries concerned threaten the stability of the whole region, which is based on an already fragile economic structure. i therefore call for the immediate deployment of technical and human resources on the ground and for coordination with our international partners for a closely coordinated intervention.
iraq has serious governance problems which have facilitated the rise of the so-called islamic state of iraq and the levant, but we cannot ignore the impact of the brutal confrontation between the syrian people and the murderous regime of bashar al-assad on the offensive of this terrorist organization which is not a state and much less represents islam. the new iraqi government must be representative of iraq's political, ethnic and religious diversity and must give priority to eradicating the sectarianism that has paralysed governance. it has failed to respond to the most basic needs of the population, in particular by aligning and handing over the sunni minority to the fanatical opportunism of the so-called is. the european union - and not just a few member states - must commit itself to an international coalition which, duly backed up by international law, operationalizes a counter-terrorism strategy involving military, technical and political support in the training of iraqi and other forces in the region determined to combat this threat. it is essential that the states of the union articulate a common position which demonstrates, on the ground and in the diplomatic arena, that the union is acting in a coordinated manner. the threat posed by the criminals of is does not only strike christian and azeri, kurdish, assyrian and other minorities and the shia and sunni populations in iraq and syria, it is a threat to civilization and global security. on the political front, the european union must continue to seek cooperation with iran and hold accountable - from turkey to our gulf partners - those who in those countries are inciting sectarianism on the basis of the bloody ideology of is and providing financial, military, logistical and other support to it. the fight against is cannot serve to further marginalize the syrian tragedy from the european agenda. the fight against isis is about ending the bloody conflict in syria. finally, the fight against radicalisation within the european union must be another of our priorities. we have a european security strategy, an internal security strategy, an anti-terrorism strategy, but we have not yet tackled effectively the problem of radicalisation and recruitment. our youth unemployed, excluded and exposed to the recruitment networks. this is the priority, it's time to act.
on behalf of the s&d group. from my visit to benghazi in may 2011, in the midst of the popular uprising against gaddafi's dictatorship, i have vivid memories of meeting salwa bouguiguis, one of the heroes of the revolution and the future of freedom, democracy and progress that she and millions of libyans and libyans wanted for their country. salwa bouguiguis was cowardly murdered and her husband kidnapped on 25 june after they went to vote in the last libyan elections. this tragedy illustrates the spiral of violence and sectarianism that has befallen the libyan people over the past year and calls for urgent action in solidarity by the international community. violence is undermining the viability of the state in libya. and this spiral, if it has much to do with internal rivalries, we cannot ignore that it is also instigated from outside, either by gaddafi strongholds or by terrorist forces with agendas destabilizing the region. the priority must be to invest in national security and reconciliation. we need a ceasefire between rival militias and bring all parties to dialogue. the european union must apply sanctions against those who stand on the sidelines of this process and continue to incite violence and chaos in libya. at the madrid conference today, alongside humanitarian support, it is essential that the international community and the european union in particular decide to support the formation of libyan security forces, police and armed forces under a national central command to provide security in a region where organised crime is proliferating through trafficking in human beings, arms, drugs and terrorism. it's our own safety we're talking about here, too. libya may be on the verge of becoming a failed state, a haven for armed terrorist networks right here on our doorstep, on the doorstep of the european union. the european union must waste no more time and provide a mission within the framework of the common security and defence policy, which focuses on assisting disarmament and reform of the security system in libya. the libyan dysfunction is already having a direct impact on the european union. the human tragedy in the mediterranean is becoming more appalling every day, as was the disaster that killed 500 desperate people the day before yesterday. when will we put in place a truly european and solidarity-based mechanism to save lives? i conclude, mr president, by expressing my admiration and asking for the european union's full support for the action of a european, bernadino león, who has recently been appointed as the un secretary-general's special representative for libya and who is doing an extraordinary job of trying to negotiate the ceasefire and start an inclusive negotiating process. he deserves our full support.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr iglesias, are you unaware of the libyan people's struggle to free themselves from the murderous dictatorship of gaddafi? because this was the determinant of the revolution. with support, it is true, from outside, but there was this struggle: i was there and saw it with my own eyes, at the front: the boys and girls who were fighting against the gaddafi dictatorship. where are you on this? has he forgotten all about it? is everything useful to attack the forces that, yes, yes, have taken advantage of gaddafi, of this gaddafi dictatorship?
mr president, it is important to remember that the palestinian conflict has been going on since 1947, and to put hamas at the root of the problem is to ignore history itself. we were in palestine earlier this month with several comrades and witnessed the oppression of a people by the israeli authorities. we have seen the complete disproportion of means that overturns any theory of a supposed war between two parties attacking each other. the palestinian people, ourselves and all those who believe in this peace process are firmly convinced that this solution can only be reached by ending the political, military and financial support of the united states and the european union to israel. we call on the european union to respect the commitments it has signed in relation to the peace process and to implement the clauses of the association agreement with israel which oblige both parties to respect human rights. the palestinians have been waiting too long. let us recognize once and for all and work towards the recognition of the state of palestine according to the borders of 1966 and with its capital in east jerusalem. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i totally agree. the right of return of the palestinian population to the occupied territories is one of the issues which must be at the heart of the negotiations, and this has been mentioned several times in our meetings with the organisations. now, let's not mix it up, let's not complicate it, and then it's all the same. let us just recognize what is written, apply what is in the treaties, and get the european union to condemn israel, because we have an association treaty that is not being respected, because article 2 is not being respected because of israel's violations of human rights. they're concrete, they're boycotts, they're stopping the sale of arms to israel... it's very simple stuff. weapons that have been used to kill children... we must recognize this and take concrete action, not forgetting the complexity of the problem, but without stopping our action.
mr president, more than 2000 people have died because they are palestinians, more than 10 000 have been injured simply because they are palestinians, because there is an occupation, an occupation in which crimes against humanity have been committed. crimes against humanity must be tried here and everywhere in the world. there was a colleague in the room who said that they would be investigated by the israeli government. - you did? israel is the defendant! israel has to sit in the dock! no court works with the defendant as its judge! that is unthinkable. but this debate, this debate is about the role of the european union. there is much the european union can do. the european union must stop being complicit. you cannot write on paper that you do not recognise the occupied territories and not suspend the association agreement and do nothing to counteract that and keep israel in the state of exception. the european union cannot be cynical. every month in this plenary we have debates on the urgency of crimes against human rights and against humanity. every month in this plenary we cry tears for crimes against human rights. this is the most visible of all, the greatest embarrassment to the international community. let's stop being cynical, let's stop being part of the problem.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, poverty is today a serious violation of human rights and democracy. it strikes its main victims at the source from which all personal rights emanate: human dignity. the effective defence of human rights and the fight against their violations will be nothing more than rhetorical proclamations without a serious and consequential fight against poverty, which today affects millions of people all over the world, including within the european union itself. the eradication of poverty does not depend solely on economic measures or on economic development itself. its elimination depends above all on policies, on political will. a serious fight against poverty will in itself be a factor in economic development and in the development of democracy. poverty can be eradicated. it is imperative that this be done as soon as possible.
madam president, the proclamation of the principle of the universality of human rights is not cultural imperialism, it is a civilizational advance, and it is probably the main legacy of modern european and western thought to the world, which greatly increases our obligations in this field. we know that foreign policy cannot be reduced to a mere proclamation of human rights. it would perhaps be ineffective if it did. but a foreign policy which does not also include the question of respect for human rights as a central concern would be too cynical in relation to the values which must constantly inspire us. and that is why i want to welcome this report here, because with all the shortcomings it may contain, and it will contain some, it means the implementation of one of the greatest commitments of our european project: the commitment to promoting the safeguarding of human rights in all parts of the world. and that is why we must be vigilant both to christians, who are persecuted today in the middle east, and to mexican communists, who, as mentioned here by a colleague of ours, have also been victims of persecution in mexico. that is why we must be attentive to all those who are persecuted because that is the heart of the whole issue and that is why the principle of the universality of human rights cannot be contemporaneous with any idea of cultural relativism or political relativism, which, if taken into account, would put them absolutely in question. i also agree with my colleague who has just spoken about the importance of combating poverty, because poverty worldwide is unmistakably one of the greatest attacks on the dignity of the human person.
madam president, i join my colleagues in condemning this attack on human rights defenders and journalists, political activists, bloggers, ngos, all those who are fighting in azerbaijan for democracy, freedom and pluralism. the use of criminal proceedings for fraud, tax evasion, treason and other reasons is absolutely unacceptable. these people must be released immediately and unconditionally. the authorities must end the ongoing campaign of harassment and intimidation against ngos and allow them to work without restrictions, especially in the framework of the extractive industries transparency initiative, thus for human rights and democracy. azerbaijan must carry out without delay and in a genuine manner the human rights reforms it has committed to in the council of europe of which it is a member. and for us, the european union and the member states, we cannot continue with business as usual policy towards azerbaijan. we have responsibilities and obligations in the european union's strategic framework for human rights and democracy. and that is why we must speak urgently and in the strongest possible terms against the ongoing repression in azerbaijan. negotiations for a strategic modernization partnership with azerbaijan should be suspended until the minimum steps are met, and any further progress in eu-azerbaijan relations should be conditional on concrete steps by the government to improve the human rights situation.
in writing. - the recent events of the russian invasion and the consequent destabilisation of eastern ukraine and the clear violation of the ceasefire between the parties require a strong, united response from the eu. i support this resolution because i consider unacceptable the lack of respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the ukrainian state and for the right of this country to make its internal and external choices in choosing to move closer to europe. i would like to welcome the simultaneous ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement and hope for its rapid ratification by all member states. the constant russian pressure is regrettable, in particular the gross violations of human rights in the conflict areas by russian regular troops and separatists through the persecution of ukrainians and tatars and threats by the self-proclaimed leaders against citizens who express an interest in voting in the next legislative elections. i welcome the restrictive measures taken by the eu against russia and the recent decision by the european commission to mobilise eur 22 million in humanitarian and development aid for ukraine, and consider it vital to ensure constant and rigorous monitoring of the humanitarian needs of refugees and conflict-affected populations.
in the light of the recent events in ukraine, the european union is calling on the ukrainian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the peace process in ukraine is not disrupted. the signed ceasefire protocol, advocated by the trilateral contact group, provides for the release of hostages, measures to improve the humanitarian situation, the withdrawal of all illegal armed groups, military equipment and mercenaries from ukraine and measures on decentralisation in the donetsk and luhansk regions, which this motion for a resolution reinforces. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the situation in the region is not further worsened by the threat of a nuclear war. the early elections scheduled for 26 october 2014 in ukraine should be free and fair, and the government should do everything in its power to make them transparent by assisting the work of international observers.
in writing. - we're looking at a damnable piece of war propaganda. this resolution whitewashes and supports the nationalist forces, with their self-confessed fascist and neo-nazi character, which have seized power in kiev and are trying to impose by force on the eastern regions of the country the hegemony of their political and national power, corresponding to the interests and aspirations of the usa, nato and the eu in the economic and political colonization of ukraine and their strategy of encirclement and confrontation with russia. it goes beyond the millions of dollars the us claimed to have spent in ukraine to build a regime favourable to its interests; the responsibilities of the major eu and nato powers in the brutal interference unleashed after the refusal of a sovereign decision by a legitimate power to the effect of the signing of the eu-ukraine association agreement by the ukrainian president, who would be deposed by force; the fact that the eu has negotiated this agreement with fascist and neo-nazi coup forces is being ignored. the ceasefire is hypocritically welcomed, while at the same time nato's decision to strengthen ukraine's ability to ensure its own security is praised and support is given to the supply of arms, technology and expertise to ukraine by the member states. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. - the situation in ukraine is of particular concern to me. i consider it a strategic country in europe, which has been successively harmed by russia. the eu cannot ignore the escalation of the military conflict in eastern ukraine, where russian military personnel are known to be fighting ukrainian forces alongside separatist rebels. the eu-ukraine association agreement and the agreement on a comprehensive and deep free trade area, signed on 27 june 2014, should also be respected and safeguarded. the eu's foreign policy must be at the forefront of unequivocal support for ukraine in the development of a peace plan. the eu must maintain good neighbourly relations with russia, but must be intimidated by its threats against ukraine. we must be uncompromising in defending the sovereignty of ukraine, even if this means extending the economic embargo against russia.
in writing. - on this subject we can only and must remember that it was the refusal of the former president of ukraine to sign the association agreement at the vilnius summit that led to the condemnable acts of interference by the us, nato and the eu (including many meps) that led to the coup d'état. this coup d'état was enthusiastically supported by the eu, despite all the well-documented atrocities, with fascist armed gangs persecuting left-wing politicians and trade unionists. we cannot but remember the murder of dozens of defenseless citizens by these gangs when they set fire to the trade union house in odessa, killing 46 people. the european union cannot pretend that it does not know when it is negotiating with illegal governments, some of which are fascist parties and which, after having removed the communist party of ukraine from parliament, are preparing to outlaw it.
in writing. - this resolution is a genuine piece of war propaganda, the version that whitewashes and supports the nationalist, fascist and neo-nazi forces that have stormed to power in kiev and are trying to impose by force on the eastern regions of the country the hegemony of their political and national power, a unilateral version that corresponds to the interests and aspirations of the usa, nato and the eu in the economic and political colonization of ukraine and their strategy of encirclement and confrontation with russia. the fact that the us has admitted to spending millions of dollars in ukraine to build a regime favourable to its interests, the responsibility of the major powers of the eu and nato in the brutal interference unleashed after the refusal of the ukrainian president to sign the association agreement at the vilnius summit, which would have been deposed by force, and the fact that the eu had negotiated this agreement with fascist and neo-nazi coup forces, is being ignored. the ceasefire is welcomed but this position is hypocritical, while at the same time it welcomes nato's decision to strengthen ukraine's ability to ensure its own security and supports the provision of arms, technology and expertise to ukraine by the member states.
in writing. - since it was declared, the ebola outbreak has affected 4,000 people, caused 2,000 deaths and is spreading at an alarming rate in the west african region. i consider it a matter of extreme urgency to tackle this outbreak, which has a transnational and intercontinental dimension, and i believe that the european union should provide all possible help. it's not just an african problem, it's a global security challenge. i welcome the eu's commitment, through dg devco and echo, to provide more than eur 147 million in humanitarian and development aid to stop the spread of the virus. i also think it is crucial to draw up plans adapted to the national situation and to send in specialised health workers, laboratories, equipment and isolation units. information campaigns on the symptoms and prevention measures against this scourge should also be implemented and stigmatisation of surviving patients should be avoided. in parallel, member states and the commission should strengthen medical research and the production of effective drugs and vaccines against ebola.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of public health, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the disease first detected in guinea has now spread to four other countries, killing 2,000 people and affecting nearly 4,000. the who estimates that the number of cases could exceed 20,000 in the next three months in a region where 4.5 million children under five live and where the large percentage of infected are women. the european commission has already made available €147 million in humanitarian and development aid to stop the spread of the virus, provide treatment and essential equipment to those infected and mobilise humanitarian aid experts. the resolution welcomes the work being done on the ground by partner organizations and calls on the commission to draw up a needs assessment and country-specific plans to identify and coordinate requests and to send qualified health workers, mobile laboratories, laboratory equipment, protective clothing and treatment centres with isolation units.
in writing. - since the first case reported this year, about 2,460 people have died of hemorrhagic fever; 4,700 are infected. if the epidemic is not stopped, in liberia alone, some 2,000 children will be orphaned. in the most affected countries, the number of cases has grown more than in any other outbreak of this type. there aren't enough beds to accommodate the patients. there are cases of infected people being sent home, for lack of hospital facilities, infecting other family members. lack of information leads to 40% of those infected who recover from the disease being stigmatized and discriminated against, and prevented from returning to normal life. we are facing an unprecedented outbreak with consequences that go beyond the dead and the sick, and that urgently needs to be addressed. the need for funding to respond to the outbreak has grown more than 10 times in the last month. victims have doubled. the aid referred to in this resolution is not altruistic or charitable. it's a safeguard of the greatest powers against this kind of disease. the resolution welcomes the eu's monetary support which has been declining since 2011. he's welcoming the troops into the field. these countries need doctors, treatment units, hospital beds and medical equipment. not military.
- the ebola virus disease, formerly known as haemorrhagic fever, is a serious, often fatal, disease affecting humans. for this reason, the international community must play a greater role and african countries must shoulder their share of responsibility, as the ebola outbreak is a challenge to global security and is not just a west african problem but a global problem. the eu needs to take a more effective stance in the difficult fight against this disease, which has already killed thousands of african citizens.
in writing. - if this epidemic is not stopped, in liberia alone, about 2,000 children will be orphaned. in the most affected countries, the number of cases has grown more than in any other outbreak of this type. the material shortages are glaring. lack of information leads to alarming situations. we are facing an unprecedented outbreak. the need for funding to respond to the outbreak has grown more than 10 times in the last month. the aid referred to in this resolution is unfortunately not altruistic or supportive. the resolution welcomes the eu's monetary aid - which has been declining since 2011 - and the deployment of troops to the ground. these countries need doctors, treatment units, hospital beds and medical equipment. not military.
in writing. - the aid discussed and recommended here has nothing of altruistic or of solidarity, but of protection of the world's greatest powers against this type of disease. the countries most affected - sierra leone, congo, liberia, guinea and nigeria - are countries that suffered for years under colonial rule, followed by imperialist rule. these are countries where the imf, with its neoliberal policies and its bad loans, has been responsible for the lack of effective conditions to deal with this epidemic. according to the who deputy director, more health workers are needed than any other aid, since for every 70-80 patients, about 200 health workers are needed. while welcoming in this resolution the monetary aid given by the eu, which has been decreasing since 2011, and by the us, which has already announced the sending of 3000 soldiers to the field, countries like cuba, whose heritage of solidarity intervention is known worldwide, will send 65 doctors and 103 nurses. these countries and their infected citizens need doctors, treatment units, hospital beds and medical equipment, not military personnel.
in writing. - as a result of the occupation of parts of its territory by the jihadist terrorist group islamic state (is), the humanitarian and security situation in iraq and syria has deteriorated, with is declaring on 24 june 2014 the establishment of a caliphate or islamic state in the territories under its control. serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law have been committed in areas controlled by isil or associated groups, including targeted killings, abductions, the sale and enslavement of women and children, the recruitment of children for suicide bombings, physical and sexual abuse and torture, and the beheading of journalists james foley and steven sotloff and humanitarian worker david haines. the promotion of democracy and respect for human rights are fundamental principles and objectives of the european union in its relations with third countries. i support this resolution, in which the european parliament strongly condemns the indiscriminate killings and human rights violations and stresses that in syria and iraq, a lasting peace will only be possible if all parties are held accountable for the crimes committed and there can be no impunity for the perpetrators of these acts.
in the case of the united states, the united nations has been the only country to have a military presence in the region. the targeted executions, forced conversions, abductions, the sale and enslavement of women and children, physical and sexual abuse and torture; the murder of journalists and humanitarian workers and the destruction of monuments, mosques, shrines and churches must be strongly condemned. these practices have had direct repercussions on the populations: 191000 people have lost their lives in syria, 6,4 million people have been displaced to other syrian regions and 3 million have taken refuge in other countries; the number of christians in iraq went from 1.2 million to 350,000 and in syria there were 1.8 million christians who are now reduced to about 500,000. the continuing attacks on civilian targets and the daily execution of people deserve our full condemnation and solidarity with all the families of the victims of this conflict.
in writing. - we are facing an attempt to make a blank slate of the responsibilities of the usa, britain, france and the eu in the situation in iraq and syria. the intention is to further destabilise these countries by maintaining a situation of permanent conflict between peoples, creating chaos in order to better control their natural resources. those who hypocritically warn of the dangers of the establishment of an islamic caliphate in iraq and syria, considering that this constitutes a direct threat to the security of european countries, are the same ones who not long ago defended the support (with weapons, training, financing) to these groups when they fought the syrian government. yesterday's allies (isis) have become enemies, targets to be shot down, a major threat to eu countries and the us. the call for the formation of an international coalition, the call for the arab league to take up the fight, the welcome of the decision by some eu countries to hand over arms to new allies inside iraq, the preparation of a new aggression against countries and peoples (iraq and syria) victims of a policy of divide and rule, the search for new arguments to achieve what had not been achieved in syria, to overthrow the government, and to further stoke internal divisions in iraq. we voted against it.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the commission is proposing to extend the mandate of the un secretary-general to include the middle east peace process. the transnational nature of is and its associated groups poses a threat to the entire region, making it difficult to predict the fate of all those still besieged in areas controlled by is forces. the various crimes against humanity committed by is must be strongly condemned and the eu and the world must respond swiftly to put an end to these incidents, which have cost the lives of many westerners.
in writing. - according to this resolution, there is a clear attempt to whitewash the responsibilities of the usa, britain, france and the eu in the current situation in iraq and syria. the aim, of course, is to destabilise these countries further, creating chaos in order to better control their natural resources. the resolution calls for the formation of an international coalition, calls on the arab league to step in, welcomes the decision of some eu countries to hand over arms to new allies inside iraq and prepares for a new aggression against countries and peoples (iraq and syria) who are victims of a policy of divide and rule. finally, it is looking for new arguments to achieve what it has not been able to achieve in syria - to overthrow the government - and to further stoke internal divisions in iraq.
in writing. - reading this resolution, it is clear that what is going on is an attempt to whitewash the responsibilities of the usa, britain, france and the eu in the current situation in iraq and syria, with the aim of further destabilising these countries by creating chaos in order to better control their natural resources. those who hypocritically warn of the dangers of the constitution of an islamic caliphate in iraq and syria are the same ones who not long ago selflessly advocated supporting (with weapons, training, funding) these groups when they fought the government of syria. yesterday's allies (isis) have become (apparently) enemies, a major threat to eu countries and the us. the resolution calls for the formation of an international coalition, calls on the arab league to step in, welcomes the decision of some eu countries to hand over arms to new allies inside iraq, prepares for a new aggression against countries and peoples (iraq and syria) victims of a divide-and-rule policy, seeks new arguments to achieve what had not been achieved in syria - overthrowing the government - and to further stoke internal divisions in iraq.
in this context, the european union calls on the government of libya to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in libya is brought under control and that the situation in libya is brought under control. recent fighting has led to a widespread deterioration of living conditions in libya, with thousands of migrants and refugees who fled the violence in libya dying while trying to cross the mediterranean to europe, triggering a serious refugee crisis in italy and malta. i support this resolution of the ep which condemns the escalation of violence, in particular against the civilian population and civil institutions, and calls on all parties to the conflict to immediately cease all acts of violence and to agree to a ceasefire, which will allow the creation of a state based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the resolution also calls for those responsible for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law to be duly prosecuted.
in writing. - the fighting in libya has intensified in recent months, destabilising the country and its democratic transition, and causing an increase in civilian casualties, internally displaced persons and refugees: 100,000 libyans fled their homes and 150,000 left the country. massive human rights violations are taking place on a daily basis, with dozens of civilians being abducted solely on the basis of their tribe, family or religion; with arbitrary detentions, kidnappings, extrajudicial executions, torture and violence against journalists, officials, politicians and human rights defenders. it is therefore important that the european union's contribution does not focus solely on border security, because it does not correspond to the country's needs or the challenges it faces. i would remind you that more than 1600 people have already died trying to reach europe via italy and malta, the vast majority of them libyans. of the 109 000 people who arrived in italy, 98 000 were from libya, a situation of deep concern which should lead the european union to follow up on the priorities identified in the mediterranean task force.
in writing. - time has proved the warnings and denunciations we have made about the aggression in libya. nato, the us and the eu have promoted intervention and war in libya. the majority of this parliament did not then concern itself with the consequences of that choice. when they instigated the internal conflict to try to justify the violation of its sovereignty and independence, attacking the country after the imposition of a hypocritical no-fly zone - which, it should be recalled, of the portuguese parties represented in the european parliament only the pcp opposed, together with many other forces represented in the gue/ngl - they did so, they said, to defend freedom, democracy, human rights. how cynical, how hypocritical. the result is in plain sight. on its horizon was one of the largest oil reserves in the world, the largest in africa. to achieve their goals, they armed, they financed, they opened the country's doors to mercenaries and groups like al qaeda, to foment divisions between clans and tribes that lived in peaceful coexistence. the same people are now alarmed by the insecurity and instability created. the answer: more of the same, with the involvement of the european external action service, a broader csdp mission and the militarization of the eu presence in libya.
in writing. - since the fall of the gaddafi regime libya has not found stability. libya is facing an escalation of fighting between armed groups, including attacks on civilians and private property, which involve massive human rights violations. i must condemn the escalation of violence, especially that directed against the population and civilian institutions, the parties to the conflict must immediately cease all acts of violence and agree to a ceasefire in order to stop the escalation of suffering of the population and to start an inclusive national political dialogue, to create a state based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it is to this end that the eu must make every effort.
in the case of the former yugoslavia, the european union has not been able to provide the necessary support for the peace process, and the situation in the country is not satisfactory. his interest was obviously focused on one of the largest oil reserves in the world, the largest in africa. they've armed and financed mercenary groups and other groups like al qaeda, coming from various countries to balkanize, to foment divisions between clans and tribes that were living peacefully together. the response of the right-wing forces and social democrats is hypocritically alarmed at the general insecurity and the constant arrival of immigrants on the shores of eu countries, whom they continue to criminalize and let die at sea or on land.
in writing. - it was not to further improve the living conditions of these people that nato, the us and their allies in the eu and the region promoted the interference and aggression in libya. they did not care about the consequences when they instigated the internal conflict to try to justify the violation of their sovereignty and independence, attacking the country after the imposition of a hypocritical no-fly zone. on his horizon was one of the largest oil reserves in the world, the largest in africa, and that was all that mattered. to achieve their goals, they armed, financed and opened the country's doors to mercenaries and other groups like al-qaeda, coming from various countries to balkanize, stoke divisions between clans and tribes that lived in peaceful coexistence. the result is in sight. the right-wing and social democratic forces are hypocritically alarmed by the general insecurity and the constant arrival of immigrants on the shores of the eu countries, whom they continue to criminalize and let die at sea or on land. but their response is more of the same, with the intervention of the european external action service, a broader csdp mission and the militarization of the eu presence in libya.
in the light of the recent events in the gaza strip, the commission has decided to extend the period of suspension of the operation to the end of the year. on 26 august, under the auspices of egypt, a ceasefire was reached between the parties, which ended seven weeks of conflict in gaza. the ceasefire agreement provides for humanitarian aid to be allowed to enter the gaza strip through israel, the rafah crossing to be opened and the fishing zone to be extended to six miles from the gaza coast. if the truce holds, the parties are expected to start talks by the end of september 2014. i strongly condemn the violation of human rights and international humanitarian law and call for accountability for criminal acts. i welcome the egyptian-mediated ceasefire and support the eu's participation in the emergency humanitarian aid and reconstruction effort in gaza, as well as the international donor conference on 12 october 2014. i stress that providing full and unhindered access to humanitarian aid for the people of the gaza strip must be an immediate priority.
in writing. - in the latest israeli-palestinian conflict, more than 2,000 palestinians were killed, a third of them children, 10,000 were injured while 66 israeli soldiers and six civilians were killed and 500 were injured. more than 1,700 homes were destroyed, 40,000 damaged and 17 hospitals and clinics, 136 schools, 60 mosques and 13 cemeteries were destroyed. whole neighborhoods and basic infrastructure have been razed to the ground in gaza. experts have estimated the cost of rebuilding gaza at $8 billion, and the palestinian government has requested $550 million for food aid and access to clean water, health care and education. europe's participation in the international donor conference is crucial and this financial assistance must be used to the fullest possible effect to benefit the palestinian people and not to terrorist activities. europe must work for full and unhindered access to humanitarian aid for the people of the gaza strip and all actors in the region, in particular with regard to electricity and water supply services and the basic needs of children.
in writing. - another resolution of unacceptable content, which excuses israel's aggression against palestine. the repetition of the cynical and shameful trick of making the aggressor believe that he is the victim and the victim is the aggressor. the criminal action of israel against the palestinian people has no other objective than to try to impose and enshrine acceptance of the effective occupation of palestine and the capitulation and abdication of the national rights of the palestinian people. we regret - but it is no surprise - that the majority of this parliament does not denounce or strongly condemn the criminal military offensive against the gaza strip and its population. we regret the lead of the proposals put forward by our group for a substantial increase in the amount allocated to unrwa and the palestinian authority to deal with the immense humanitarian and material disaster in gaza. we regret that you are opposed to the immediate end of the siege of gaza and to the immediate and unhindered access of humanitarian aid, especially to meet urgent medical needs. that opposes the supply of electrical power from any source as well as water supply. to want to be neutral in a situation of state terrorism by an occupying power is the same as being a collaborator and accomplice of that aggression.
in the light of the recent events in the gaza strip, the commission has decided to extend the period of suspension of the operation to the end of the year. so the egyptian-sponsored ceasefire is welcome. i cannot, however, fail to condemn hamas' aggressive stance and the constant terrorist attacks against israel. it is true that israel could have been more restrained in its response to these attacks, but hamas must be condemned for the way it endangers the population of the gaza strip by continuing its attacks and using it as a base to attack israel.
in writing. - this resolution of parliament excuses israel's aggression against palestine, and it is unacceptable, cynical and shameful to turn the aggressor into the victim and the victim into the aggressor. it is necessary and obligatory for the majority of this parliament to denounce and condemn in the strongest terms the criminal military offensive against the gaza strip and its population. the amount allocated to unrwa and the palestinian authority needs to be substantially increased to deal with the immense humanitarian and material disaster in gaza. it is shameful that we are opposing the end of the siege of gaza and the immediate and unhindered access of humanitarian aid, especially to meet urgent medical needs. to want to be neutral in a situation of state terrorism by an occupying power is the same as being a collaborator and accomplice of that aggression.
in writing. - the fiji islands' request cannot be considered and cannot enter into force because the country has not yet demonstrated the conditions for the return of democracy, as reported by several international bodies referring to attempts to silence journalists before the elections scheduled for september, for example. in addition, the self-proclaimed government of fiji has no legitimacy to take any decision on this matter. the commission should therefore not take any decision until the announced elections have been properly conducted in accordance with international guidelines, and even after that a transitional period is needed to allow an assessment of the situation of stability and the recovery of the mandatory democratic standards in all countries.
in writing. - the resolution tabled by our group opposes the commission's delegated act which aims to reinstate eight acp countries in annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (market access regulation). this regulation provides that countries which have negotiated but not yet ratified economic partnership agreements (epas) benefit from a duty-free and tariff-rate quota-free import regime. in order to force african countries to sign the epas, the commission amended the regulation to remove african countries from the list of beneficiary countries if they do not conclude the agreements by 1 october 2014 and the commission may adopt delegated acts to reinstate them. we have always demonstrated our opposition to the epa. the eu's aim with these agreements is to ensure that markets are open to its major economic and financial groups, to sell goods and services, to exploit raw materials and to impose an export-oriented production model in its own interests. furthermore, the opposition to the delegated act concerning fiji is justified by the political situation in the country, which has been under a military dictatorship since the 2006 coup. the current government has no legitimacy to take the decision to ratify the epa.
in writing. - this resolution opposes the commission's delegated act, which aims to reinstate eight acp countries in annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (market access regulation). the regulation provides that countries which have negotiated but not yet ratified economic partnership agreements (epas) benefit from a duty-free and tariff-rate quota-free import regime. we have always demonstrated our opposition to the epa. the eu's aim with these agreements is to ensure that markets are open to its large financial groups, to sell goods and services, to exploit raw materials and to impose an export-oriented production model in its own interests. on the other hand, we oppose the delegated act to fiji because of the political situation in the country, which has been under a military dictatorship since the military coup of 2006. given that elections are scheduled for 17 september, any negotiations between the eu and this country should only be made ex post facto.
in writing. - the resolution, tabled by our political group in the european parliament, opposes the commission's delegated act, which aims to reinstate eight acp countries in annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 (market access regulation). this regulation provides that countries which have negotiated but not yet ratified economic partnership agreements (epas) benefit from a duty-free and tariff-rate quota-free import regime. the commission, in order to force african countries to sign the epas, amended the regulation so that they would be removed from the list of beneficiary countries if they did not conclude the agreements by 1 october 2014. we have always demonstrated our opposition to the epa. the eu's aim with these agreements is to ensure that markets are open to its large financial groups, to sell goods and services, to exploit raw materials and to impose an export-oriented production model in its own interests. we oppose the delegated act to fiji because of the political situation in the country, which has been under a military dictatorship since the military coup in 2006. given that elections are scheduled for 17 september, any negotiations between the eu and this country should only be made ex post facto.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and we are also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. heavy rains are not necessarily synonymous with floods. the floods are not so much due to the divine irritations of st. peter but to man, to the policies in force of unlawful and abusive occupation of the land, to the means of prevention and management that are not properly mobilized. structural prevention measures are needed, which have been overlooked in recent years, especially in cities, due to the advancement of concrete and the waterproofing of the soil. the emergence of risk inducing situations and the implementation of effective drainage plans are two examples. all this requires lavish but necessary public investment. it also demands an end to the irresponsibility of the state and the attacks on public services, from civil protection to water and sanitation services, which expose citizens to intolerable and avoidable risks.
in writing. other a little over a month ago, this house had already warned of the urgent need to increase the technical and human resources on the ground to combat the ebola epidemic effectively and in close cooperation with other international partners. after this period, aid to countries on the front line of the fight against this disease continues to be delayed, international solidarity funds are scandalously below what had been requested by the un, and as a result, there is an increase in the number of infected and loss of human life in the affected african countries. the number of 10,000 new cases a week predicted for the short term is frightening! we cannot convince ourselves that we are immune to this epidemic when we have the first cases of contagion across continental borders. so i think we have to invest more in the preparation of our health systems, in informing people and in cross-border disease control, as well as in human, material and logistical support to african countries. i believe that we must be more determined and urgent in combating this epidemic at the root of the problem in africa!
in writing. other in the 1990s, the imf and the world bank entered sub-saharan africa with their shock therapies and their adjustment and restructuring programmes. in sierra leone, 5,000 health workers were laid off. the payroll in the health sector has been reduced by a third. that is, the parks public health systems form dismantled. it should be noted that this country was cited as an example in the implementation of reforms. and so this ebola virus, with all the human dramas it entails, here serves as a revealer of the effects of the neoliberal policies applied in africa in the past and in europe today. the who, which should be at the forefront of this battle, in an articulated strategy to combat the virus, is today struggling with budgets that decrease year by year, because that is how the rich countries determine it. in particular, its 2012-13 budget was cut by 13,4% just for operations in africa, depriving it of operational capacity. i'd like to hear a few words about this reality.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, perhaps the outcome of this conference was interesting in theory, since it resulted, as we know, in a number of proclamations of goodwill, of the efforts that everyone has made to improve this catastrophic situation. president barroso and the commissioner have also said that there is a serious problem, a problem that must also be solved, which is the importance of creating quality jobs. all right, we're all in agreement. now let us move on to the other part, the reality of the impact of the european commission's action. the troika - of which we know there are two european institutions - is waging a relentless struggle against what you consider to be rigid models of the labour market. it reads, what we understand, workers' rights and living wages. for example, recently in my country, portugal, the government decided to raise the minimum wage from a miserable 485 euros to a miserable 505 euros. after all, a 20 euro increase in the minimum wage. but then, after a few days, the european commission or its alter ego showed great concern and dissatisfaction with this measure. how can we explain to you that quality employment means worthy rights and wages for workers? or how do you feel that there are more and more workers, people in employment, who are simultaneously poor - by the way, as the latest data, last friday, revealed? or do you know exactly that and act like you don't understand? for you know that the workers resist, they fight and they don't let themselves be fooled.
madam president, another summit, another failed act. we must understand at once the scale of the problem and the nature of the problem. we now have member states in the european union with unemployment rates of over 40%. and what's behind this is that the engine of job creation has stopped working. that is the true nature of the problem. so this cannot be solved simply by improving the vocational integration of young people or by improving the education and training system, important as that is. this requires investment on a much larger scale. this requires the creation of the jobs that are missing. and so we need much more access to credit for small and mediumsized enterprises, more time to reduce the public deficit, structural funds with faster access, and we have to face up to the need to build a real european fund to support investment in the future. a real solution to the problem of youth unemployment depends on this. don't play with the term "ambitious", the big promise of the youth guarantee. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. madam president, that is indeed a good question, but i think that the european economy must be forward-looking. it is true that we are faced with global competition, but europe must be able to produce the products and services of the future, and that is why we must be able to use the skills of our young people. they're ready for it.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are well aware of how disastrous the economic policy of the european union has been for the european union as a whole, but in particular for the economies of the euro zone's periphery. and with the european semester, which is part of the problem and not the solution, we are aggravating problems of democracy and the ability of the people of the countries to decide on their budgetary policies, but we are also aggravating this economic policy which has been disastrous. we are talking about budgetary consolidation, we are talking about proposals, but we never touch the essential points. if we want real fiscal consolidation, the alternative is to tackle the real problem we have, which is unemployment. now, suggestions are made regarding research, the environment, gender equality... i am not saying that they are not important, they are important, but until we focus on the real problem, which is unemployment, we will have no solution. unemployment is not just a side effect, it is not just a consequence, unemployment is the cause, it is the main cause of the unsustainability of public accounts. and what are the european institutions doing about it? they continue to insist on deregulating the labour market, while the periphery of the european union is mired in unemployment and precariousness. but it's not just that. there are also goals that are never met. none of the objectives set out in economic policy or the european semester have ever been achieved, and what do the european institutions do? they call it by another name, they call it growth-friendly fiscal policy. that is to say, a change of slogan to continue the same policy which is leading us to the destruction of the european economic fabric. we cannot support this proposal, we have already spoken out against it, we cannot support a proposal which continues to sink the peripheral countries further and further and which does not bring any solution other than what is essential. and i say again: the essential thing is employment. do you want consistent public policies, consistent public accounts? focus on the job.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 019 184 for spain to support the 633 workers made redundant in 142 factories in the comunidad valenciana region.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. spain submitted an application for the egf, following 633 redundancies in 142 enterprises in the metal products manufacturing sector during the reference period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013, linked to the global financial and economic crisis, which resulted in a reduced demand for and production of metal and metal products by 23,3% in 2009 compared to the previous year and by 36,6% between 2008 and 2013. the turnover decreased by 38,5% during the period 2008 to 2012 and redundancies represent 43% of total employment in the metallurgical sector. in this mobilisation of the egf in favour of the spanish region of comunidad valenciana, eur 1.019 million was granted. i voted in favour.
in writing. - at this plenary session we are called upon to decide on the allocation of financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) the fund set up to be mobilised in the event of mass redundancies and thus perhaps alleviate the bad conscience of those responsible for the policies which promote them following 8204 redundancies by 155 companies based in spain, belgium and france. it's brutal and shameful. a libel against this european union and its policies. this report focuses on the application by comunidad valenciana metal following 633 redundancies in 142 companies in the manufacture of metal products in spain. the justification for more of these redundancies is the global financial economic crisis, with spain being one of the most severely affected member states, which has resulted in reduced demand for and production of metal and metal products - production decreased by 37% between 2008 and 2013, turnover decreased by 39% between 2008 and 2013 and redundancies account for 43% of total employment in the metal sector. this is the eu's response to the crisis: massive destruction of capital, layoffs, wage cuts, liquidation of rights, dismantling of the welfare state, increased exploitation. it is urgent to break with this path.
in writing. - the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to spain, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf under the egf/2014/004 es/comunidad valenciana metal following 633 redundancies in 142 enterprises in the metal products manufacturing sector in spain (with 300 potential workers benefiting from the measures co-financed by the egf) during the reference period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013.
in writing. - following 633 redundancies in 142 companies in the manufacturing of metal products (during the reference period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013), spain submitted an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the steel sector accounts for 1/4 of the jobs in the valencian community and between 2008 and 2012 the level of employment in this sector decreased by around 43% in the region. i could not therefore agree more with this decision (the 10th application of the egf in the 2014 financial year) and therefore voted in favour of this report, which will allow the mobilisation of eur 1,019 million for the vocational retraining of 300 workers in vocational training and further training activities.
in the case of the steel industry, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind. since the beginning of the financial and economic crisis (august 2007), the response to the crisis, especially on the eu side, has been through redundancies, wage cuts, liquidation of rights, dismantling of the welfare state, privatisations. austerity has continued to worsen not only the social situation but also the economic and financial situation. all austerity plans have in common to pass the bill on to taxpayers and workers, to fuel recession and to overestimate future revenues. another policy is needed, namely an increase in production, an increase in wages and pensions, a strengthening of public services, in short, the right of each state to promote socioeconomic development by intervening in defence of and promotion of national productive sectors and employment with rights.
in writing. - only this plenary session is called upon to decide on the allocation of financial assistance from the egf, following 8204 redundancies in 155 companies based in spain (1), belgium (2) and france (1). this report focuses on the application by comunidad valenciana metal following 633 redundancies in 142 companies in the manufacture of metal products in spain. the justification for more redundancies is the global financial and economic crisis, with spain being one of the most severely affected member states, which has resulted in reduced demand for and production of metal and metal products. seven years on from the start of the financial and economic crisis (august 2007), the eu's response to the crisis has been through redundancies, wage cuts, the liquidation of rights, the dismantling of the welfare state, privatisations. the absolute reduction of the deficit through the reduction of wages, pensions and social benefits has continued to worsen not only the social situation but also the economic and financial situation. this is not the answer. another policy is needed, namely an increase in production, an increase in wages and pensions, a strengthening of public services, in short, the right of each state to promote socioeconomic development.
- the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 570 945 for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh (ford genk) and at ten of its supplier companies, resulting from major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. belgium submitted an application to the egf following the dismissal of 512 workers at ford east belgium in genk and ten of its suppliers in belgium during the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 1 november 2013. the redundancies at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh and in ten supplier companies of ford genk are related to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, with an accelerated decline in the eu market share in the passenger car production sector worldwide and a progressive decline in sales of new cars in the union. in this mobilisation of the egf in favour of genk in belgium, eur 911.934 was granted. i voted in favour.
in writing. - belgium submitted the application for consideration following the dismissals at ford/genk and at ten other companies supplying it, totalling 512 workers. the rapporteur states that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and has taken into account two other redundancies which are expected to occur this year - 4 340 at ford genk and 2 280 at its suppliers in the same geographical area, flanders. the automotive industry has already been the subject of 17 decisions to mobilise the egf since the start of the egf in 2007. a consequence of the crisis of capitalism. interestingly, it was to mr. ford that, in the mid-20th century, a unionist reminded him that machines don't buy cars, a maxim that would become famous. the capitalist globalisation to which this fund aims to promote adjustment is synonymous with increasing asymmetrical integration and interdependence, with the strong liberalization of capital - especially financial capital - and of world trade, which is in turn synonymous with inequalities, unemployment, increased poverty and intensified exploitation of labour. the eu's response to the crisis has been embodied in the treaty on budgetary control and in economic governance. more of the same, therefore: seeds of new and greater crises.
in the case of the european union, the european union is a space of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to belgium, which submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following 512 redundancies, with 479 people expected to participate in the measures at the assembly plant of ford - werke gmbh (4) located in genk (ford genk) and at 10 of its supplier companies in belgium during the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 1 november 2013.
- the structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation are now an inescapable reality. as such, the european commission has created a legislative instrument capable of providing additional support to workers affected by the consequences of the economic crisis and globalisation. given that belgium has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 512 dismissals in genk and that the union's financial assistance to workers made redundant should be characterised by financial support as a direct consequence of the economic and social crisis and should also be provided as quickly and efficiently as possible in order to help reintegrate into the labour market, i voted in favour of this report which i hope will minimise the effects of unemployment in the genk region.
in writing. - the rapporteur states that the application under examination from belgium meets the conditions laid down in the egf regulation and has taken into account two other redundancies, which are expected to occur this year 4 340 at ford genk and 2 280 at its suppliers in the same geographical area, flanders. the automotive industry has already been the subject of 17 decisions to mobilise the egf since the start of the egf in 2007; in particular, the decline in the eu market share in passenger car production has already been mentioned in eight previous decisions. globalisation is essentially characterised by growing economic integration and interdependence, by the strong liberalization of capital - especially financial capital - and of world trade, which is synonymous with inequalities, unemployment, increased poverty and intensified exploitation of labour. as the dozens of applications to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund approved over the past seven years, the millions of unemployed in the eu and the exponential rise in poverty levels prove, the solution lies not in the measures taken so far, but in breaking with these policies, which opens the door to a europe of sovereign states.
in writing. - belgium submitted the application for consideration following the dismissals at ford/genk and at ten other companies supplying it, totalling 512 workers. the rapporteur states that the conditions laid down in the egf regulation are met and has taken into account two further redundancies which are expected to occur this year - 4 340 at ford genk and 2 280 at its suppliers in the same geographical area, flanders. the automotive industry has already been the subject of 17 decisions to mobilise the egf since the start of the egf in 2007; in particular, the decline in the eu market share in passenger car production has been addressed in eight previous egf decisions as well as the major structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation. globalisation is essentially characterised by growing economic integration and interdependence, by the strong liberalization of capital - especially financial capital - and of trade at world level, which is synonymous with inequalities, unemployment, increased poverty and intensified exploitation of labour. the eu's response to the crisis was embodied in the euro, the stability pact and the lisbon strategy - price stability, fiscal consolidation and market deregulation - and this is the result of those policies.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 911 934 for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 752 workers and potential beneficiaries of the 939 workers made redundant at carsid sa.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. belgium submitted an application egf/2013/02 be/carsid following 939 redundancies, with 752 persons expected to participate in the measures, in the context of the closure of the production unit of carsid sa, located in marcinelle, near charleroi, during the reference period from 28.09.2012 to 28.01.2013. the redundancies in the carsid sa production unit are related to the major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, the accelerated decline of the union market share in the global continuous casting steel production sector and a significant decrease in the union production of cast steel due to a decrease in demand for steel products in the automotive and construction sectors. in this mobilisation of the egf , eur 911 934 was granted . i voted in favour.
in writing. - this is the second application from belgium that we are considering in this plenary session. it refers to the dismissal of 939 workers in connection with the closure of the carsid sa production plant near charleroi. this company produced steel bars used in the production of products used in construction, transport equipment and the automotive sector. the justification for this dismissal is no different from what we have seen time and again: the major structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation, with accelerated decline in market share. the dismissals have significantly worsened the unemployment situation in the charleroi area (a former coal and steel mining area where employment is heavily dependent on traditional heavy industry), which is characterised by a high percentage of long-term unemployment. this is the consequence of deindustrialization, the result of policies designed to destroy the fabric of production and to finance capital, with the first and only objective of making the quickest and easiest profit. the solution lies not in the measures taken so far, but in breaking with these policies, which opens the door to a europe of progress and social justice, of the workers and the peoples.
in the case of the european union, the european union is a space of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to belgium, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of egf/2013/02 be/carsid, following 939 redundancies, with 752 people expected to participate in the measures in the context of the closure of the production unit of the company carsid sa (carsid) located in marcinelle, near charleroi, belgium, during the reference period from 28 september 2012 to 28 january 2013.
in writing. - this is the second belgian application we are considering in this plenary session. this company produced steel bars used in the production of hot and cold rolled products used in construction, transport equipment and the automotive sector. the justification for this redundancy in the production unit of carsid sa (carsid) is related to the major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, with the accelerated decline of the union market share in the continuous cast steel production sector. this has increased unemployment in the charleroi area (a former coal and steel mining area where employment is heavily dependent on traditional heavy industry) which is characterised by a high percentage of long-term unemployment. the mobilisation of the amount of eur 911 934 is only a palliative measure which, being necessary, is not the solution. we need a different direction for europe, one that puts social justice and the welfare of the people at the heart of its policies and that promotes the right to work with rights, wages and pensions.
in writing. - this application concerns the dismissal of 939 workers in connection with the closure of the production unit of carsid sa in belgium, which produced steel bars used in the production of hot and cold rolled products used in construction, transport equipment and the automotive sector. the justification for this redundancy in the production unit of carsid sa (carsid) relates to the major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, the accelerated decline of the union market share in the global continuous casting steel production sector and a significant decrease in the production of cast steel due to a decrease in demand for steel products in the automotive and construction sectors. this is the consequence of deindustrialization, the result of policies designed to destroy the fabric of production and to finance capital, with the first and only objective of making the quickest and easiest profit. the mobilisation of the amount of eur 911 934 is only a palliative measure which, being necessary, is not the solution. we need a different direction for europe, one which puts social justice and the well-being of the people at the heart of its policies.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 12 704 605 for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 2357 workers and potential beneficiaries of the 6120 workers made redundant at peugeot citroën automobiles.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. between 2014 and 2020, the annual ceiling of the fund is eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. france submitted this application following the 6 120 redundancies at peugeot citroën automobiles, mainly in the île-de-france (aulnay plant) and brittany (rennes plant) regions, during the reference period from 1.10.2013 to 31.01.2014. the commission notes that the psa group's sales volume in the union is estimated at around eur [0-5] million, which is a significant increase compared to the total sales volume of the union industry. in this mobilisation of the egf in favour of the region of brittany and the île-de-france, eur 12 704 605 was granted. i voted in favour.
in the case of the french government, the commission has not yet submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the justification for this further attack on the right to work is repeated: major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. it is noted that between 2000 and 2012, world production of vehicles increased by 44%, while in the same period production in western europe decreased by 25% and at the same time production in third countries (south korea, china, turkey, indonesia, iran, malaysia, thailand and south america) increased significantly, representing now 47% of world production of vehicles (compared to 15% in 2000). the shift of the automobile industry to countries with lower wages, thus ensuring higher and easier profits, is evident. we are approving palliative measures which, as this case demonstrates, do not apply to all workers made redundant: of the 6120 redundancies, only 2357 are covered by this fund. we must face this wave of mass redundancies head on and attribute to it the real reason: it's the quickest and easiest profit that's talking the loudest. and it is always the workers who pay for the crises that capitalism creates and will never be able to solve.
in writing. - the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to france, which submitted an application egf/2014/006 fr/psa for a financial contribution from the egf, following 6 120 redundancies in peugeot citroën automobiles (psa) of nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), mainly in the regions of île-de-france (aulnay plant) and brittany (rennes plant), with 2 357 of the potential workers benefiting from the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 1 october 2013 to 31 january 2014.
in writing. - we are examining another application from the automotive sector, which has so far been the subject of 21 applications for egf assistance, 12 of which are related to the globalisation of trade and 9 to the world financial and economic crisis. between 2000 and 2012, world production of vehicles increased by 44%, while in the same period production in western europe decreased by 25%, and at the same time production in third countries (south korea, china, turkey, indonesia, iran, malaysia, thailand and south america) increased significantly, now representing 47% of world production of vehicles (compared to 15% in 2000). the shift of the automobile industry to countries with lower wages, thus ensuring higher and easier profits, is evident. we are approving palliative measures which, as this case demonstrates, do not apply to all workers made redundant: of the 6120 redundancies, only 2357 are covered by this fund.
in writing. - we are examining another application from the automotive sector, which has so far received 21 applications for egf assistance. the present application is submitted by france following 6120 redundancies at peugeot citroën automobiles, the redundancies being mainly in the île-de-france (aulnay plant) and brittany (rennes plant) regions. it is noted that between 2000 and 2012, world production of vehicles increased by 44%, while in the same period production in western europe decreased by 25%, and at the same time production in third countries increased significantly, now representing 47% of world production of vehicles. the shift of the automobile industry to countries with lower wages, thus ensuring higher and easier profits, is evident. we are approving palliative measures which, as this case demonstrates, do not apply to all workers made redundant: of the 6120 redundancies, only 2 357 are covered by this fund. we must face this wave of mass redundancies head on and attribute to it the real reason: it's the quickest and easiest profit that's talking the loudest. and it is always the workers who pay for the crises that capitalism creates and will never be able to solve.
in writing. other the ten years of durão barroso as president of the european commission are the most complete refutation of the statements made ten years ago and repeated five years ago about the importance for portugal of having a portuguese president of the european commission. all the decisions, all the nuclear policies adopted during this period, all the most relevant legislative proposals of the european commission have proved to be negative for our country and for our people, as well as for the peoples of the other countries of the european union. legislation relating to economic and monetary union economic governance, european semester; common policies cap, trade policy, fisheries policy; multiannual financial framework 2014-2020: in all this portugal has lost and lost a lot. the eu-ecb-imf troika intervention programme is of particular importance. a programme which - as we warned then - has not solved any of the country's problems, but has, on the contrary, made them all worse. portugal is today a poorer, more unjust, more unequal, more dependent and less sovereign country. it also owes it to this european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. this is the balance sheet of the barroso commission in three lines.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, mr della vedova, on behalf of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council will take place at an important political moment: a new constitution for the european parliament and a new european commission. it faces enormous challenges in terms of economic growth, the reindustrialisation of europe and its compatibility with climate objectives. energy policy is of undeniable importance to both sides of this equation. if there are energy over-charges to be tackled, we cannot distort the reality and focus only on mature renewable energy. we must have the courage to look at the aid given to the fossil fuel sector in the same way. if we want to focus on energy efficiency, security of supply and counteract our dependence on the outside world, we must ensure a stable environment for investment in these areas. as the commissioner said, the ball is in our court. we must set ambitious targets for limiting greenhouse gas emissions and binding and ambitious targets for the penetration of renewable energy and energy efficiency. i therefore call on the next european council to respect parliament's position and to establish a framework for 2030 on energy and climate that promotes green growth, that represents a lower burden on the european trade balance and that reduces air pollution. finally, i would like to point out that the single european energy market is not possible without the crossborder infrastructure necessary for the transit of energy flows. it is unacceptable that geographical areas should remain almost isolated from the european energy system and which could otherwise contribute greatly to lower costs and to security of supply. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy and climate objectives and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy and climate objectives.
mr president, the next european council is supposed to approve the upcoming european commission, but it should also be able to deliver a real turning point for europe. we need this turning point. markets, as we know, are afraid of deflation risks. but much more than that, the european citizens who elected us are waiting for this turning point. from my perspective, this means to choose from now on as the central priority of europe, no longer fiscal consolidation, but growth, investment and job creation. this means that we should have, from now on, more time to reduce public deficits; we should have more room to make public and private investments; we should have better coordination of economic policies to sustain demand, and we should adopt another approach to reforms. yes, we need reforms, but not just to reduce costs. we need reforms to create more added values, to create more and better jobs, and to create a new kind of global competitiveness for europe. these are the kind of reforms we need, so i really hope that this new approach will be taken on board by the new commission – as well as the italian presidency – as we prepare for the next phase of europe 2020 strategy. so far the strategy has not been working; we need to recognise this. we need to bring a new light, a new inspiration to this strategy, which is there precisely to deliver growth and jobs but with a future perspective.
the european economic agenda has to change urgently. today, the world identifies europe as the big problem in the global economy. six years after the financial crisis began, the dogma of austerity has not solved any problems. the european economy is likely to remain in stagnation for a long time. the average inflation rate in the euro area countries fell to 0.3%, with some areas deflating. there are 25 million europeans unemployed, the euro zone has lost 10% of its wealth, some countries a quarter of gdp, internal and cross-country imbalances have exploded, public debt in peripheral countries continues to grow and there are very worrying signs on the markets. medium-term solutions have been identified since 2012. they must be implemented, but there is an absolutely urgent agenda: a strong initiative for growth, ecologically balanced, job-creating and converging economies between the centre and the periphery of europe. the european central bank cannot continue to be the only institution to act. in the face of this emergency, we must stop making false promises and façade speeches which do not solve the problem but only mask it. this change must be made now. it is a matter of weeks, not months, and this must be the central issue on the agenda of the next european council.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to see the council's firmness, clarity and commitment. i still hope that we will have that clarity and that commitment. i would like to greet the commissioner and congratulate him on the work he has done to restore credibility to the institutions of the european union. the council's position in this and other amending budgets will show whether it is in good faith or bad faith, whether we can trust the council or not, whether there is institutional loyalty on the part of the council or not, whether it is reliable and whether we can give it the credibility we hope to be able to give it. amending budgets - these budgets are for paying for investments, programmes and projects already carried out and duly authorised, in favour of smes, young people, scientists, local authorities and ngos. the council has authorized these investments and programmes, and in many cases it has asked for them. and now a question: how can we accept that the council does not want to pay what it has asked for and what it has authorized? it should be stressed that the council has signed formal declarations each year at the time of conciliation, and parliament has relied on them, and declarations in which it assumes that it approves the necessary amending budgets for the payments that are to be confirmed. how can we accept that the council does not comply with the declarations it signs? well, pacta sunt servanda, commitments are to be kept and i hope that the commitment between the institutions and with the citizens, which we have made, particularly in the multiannual financial framework, is to be respected, because we need growth, we need jobs. i hope so and i would like to have it confirmed by the council and the representative here. thank you very much.
on behalf of the epp group. the pp is in favour of a budget that is credible, supportive and contributes to growth and employment. in this sense, the council's cuts of more than 500 million in commitments and 2.1 billion in payments are unacceptable. that is why we have also strengthened the programmes for smes, youth, research and innovation, and the programme to help the most disadvantaged. external solidarity is another concern, as is proved by the increases we are proposing in humanitarian aid, in support for refugees and in neighbourhood policy. the treaties, the financial regulations, the eu 2020 strategy and the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 have to be respected. it is a commitment between the institutions but it is also a commitment to the citizens and this europe 2020 strategy which guides the multiannual financial framework must see its objectives achieved, it must also see and have the means necessary for these same objectives to be achieved. in fact, the means must match the ambition. the multiannual financial framework, its programmes, funds and priorities are required to be implemented swiftly. to speak of the budget of the european union is to speak of a budget which corresponds to about 1% of gross national income, but a budget which is above all an investment budget (94% is for investment). it has only 6% of expenditure on the administration and operation of the institutions, thus refuting the populists who always criticise the administration of our institutions. it is also a budget with a high added value and which must therefore be used for growth and employment. i hope that the council will not insist on cutting the budget, that it will meet the objectives and help growth and employment.
mr president, our position on the budget and on this proposal reflects our position on this european union with its neoliberal, federalist and militarist matrix. the budget of the european union is the concrete expression of a policy aimed at promoting the dismantling of public services, the loss of social and labour rights and public-private partnerships. this is the budget that supports austerity, the european semester and all the agencies that monitor and condition the policies of the member states and punish the bad pupils. it is the budget which supports the increasingly aggressive interventions in various parts of the world, which builds a strong europe, which is increasingly less in solidarity with its neighbours. this farce, or this pseudo-dispute between the commission and the council, cannot distract us from the essential point, which is the condemnation of the neoliberal policies of the european union, supported by this budget.
madam president, we are equally in solidarity with the ukrainian people. that is why we condemn the illegal coup d'état, which is supported by the european union and the united states. we also know that the european union is willing to help the ukrainian people in portugal. the exchange of financial aid to the european union will impose the liberalization of the economy, it will dismantle the productive apparatus of that country, which is not in a position to compete with the big european companies. the european union is not trying to help, it is simply trying to open up its market to new consumers and to gain access to raw materials from ukraine. if the european union wants to help, it must demand that the current coup government in ukraine respect human rights, stop supporting the fascist militias that persecute trade unionists and other social activists, condemn the attempt to outlaw the communist party of ukraine and investigate all the crimes committed, with particular reference to the crime in odessa. this is the kind of help that the european union should be giving.
mr president, mr juncker, with this programme and this college of commissioners, the markets can rest easy: they will continue to be the ones who will be in charge in the commission's corridors. mr juncker has put forward the main objective of achieving a triple a social dimension in the european union. it is not surprising that he only spoke about unemployment at the 34th minute of his speech and for only 30 seconds. you have devoted 30 seconds to the european union's biggest problem. it's very meaningful. mr juncker says that his main asset is that he has four former prime ministers and 19 former ministers: that is, 23 of the 28 commissioners come directly from governments, they come directly from the council to the commission. we already knew that the council had colonized the european institutions, but it is regrettable that the council is now making a hostile takeover bid to the european commission through it. mr juncker, in your economic reports you promise nothing but the continuation of the disastrous policy towards the peripheries of the euro zone. mr juncker, your triple a committee has a new brand, but the brand does not correspond to the product, it is just misleading advertising.
mr president, despite the rhetorical hoax about a supposed new cycle, one truth emerges crystal clear: this commission is the child of the same political families that formed and supported the barroso commission. there is no change here, except for faces, and even then, not all of them. there's only continuity. continuity in policies that violate fundamental human rights, in unprecedented unemployment, in intolerable levels of poverty, in growing inequalities. continued structural reforms aimed at bringing living and working conditions in europe down to a level playing field. continued favouring of the major economic groups those whose representative organisations always anticipate in their strategy papers what will become the european commission's legislative output. continued attack on democracy and the will of the people. this commission is associated with all the worst that we have experienced in recent years. this commission is the past, not the future. only the will, the mobilization and the struggle of the workers and the peoples can break this continuity and force real change.
mr president, you are coming with a very strong legitimacy, so we can come with a powerful idea for europe. i believe that we need a european new deal to relaunch growth and sustainable development. europe remains indeed the best promise of sustainable development, democracy and citizenship, but we must recognise that we are confronted with important divergences now. so i believe that we really need to have an inspiring vision for the next phase of the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, paving the way for the future – for more and better jobs. but we need to make sure that all member states do have the conditions to implement such a strategy, and that is why we need this new deal. fiscal discipline certainly; but the top priority should now be growth. we should have reforms, but above all we need to have investments for the future, and for this we need to have stronger instruments: not only the eib and structural funds, but fiscal capacity and banking union. we need to complete the economic and monetary union.
mr president, mr juncker, the new commission is born under the sign of change, it is also born under the sign of hope, of a new cycle of prosperity for the european union. but it is also born in a very frustrating social and economic context. it's not clear that we can grow anytime soon. it is now clear that the political model of impoverishing the peoples of the south has a boomerang effect and is bringing stagnation to the other peoples of europe. so words are no longer enough. we need action, something has to change. we need to put our man on the moon. we need to be a laboratory of the future, not a museum of the past. you said you were going to mobilise 300 billion euros for investment. you said where you would invest: broadband networks, energy networks, transport networks, education, research, innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency. mr juncker, that is what we have to do. we must position the european union as the forerunner of a new economy with a human face, capable of combining energy and information and capable of creating dignity and happiness for those who live in it.
mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioners-designate, it is my duty to make the last speech scheduled for this morning, and i will therefore be speaking here not as a portuguese citizen but as a european citizen. and what i wanted to remind our president-elect in this final speech, who will now see his college of commissioners put to the vote, is that it is the president's responsibility and the responsibility of all commissioners to be for the first time a truly democratically legitimate executive who has been subjected to an electoral act in which the candidate for president has appeared with a face and a party identity, and that is such a great responsibility at this moment of the start of a new european cycle that i would like to have your responsibility recorded here. i ask nothing more of you. i ask you to honour the vote of the european voters. not the voters of portugal, not the voters of slovenia, not the voters of the netherlands, not the voters of each of the countries, but the voters who in this act of 25 may voted as europeans and as european citizens so that you would have governmental responsibilities.
mr president, mr juncker, i will give you the benefit of the doubt, despite my strong reservations about some of your commissioners. we'll keep the commission under surveillance. in addition to the strategic investment plan for growth and jobs, we want to see the european semester implemented with smart flexibility and solidarity, which requires surplus member states, such as germany, to end the ostrich policy and move towards mutual debt management. you come from a country which unfortunately functions as a virtual tax haven. it is therefore particularly obliged to work to put an end to banking and shareholder secrecy and schemes such as freeport luxembourg, and to put its commission to work against the tax jungle which is today weakening europe and encouraging tax crime, money laundering, corruption and misgovernment globally. i hope you have a good day, mr juncker.
in writing. - as a portuguese socialist member of parliament, in accordance with the voting orientation of the socialist and democratic group, i have decided to vote in favour of the investiture of the juncker commission, giving it the benefit of the doubt in the face of the political commitments to change made to the european parliament. the vote, despite the reservations expressed, takes account of the serious inconveniences that would result from a political impasse in the european union and is articulated with an attitude of demand towards the new commission, which will continue in its political oversight. in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the sustainable development and energy coordination portfolios to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda. the appointments of commissioners with the profile of navracsics and katainen warrant reservations. and the lack of clarity in terms of powers, budgetary flexibility and the investment plan calls for a vigilant attitude. the portuguese socialists will continue to demand that the new commission fully comply with the programme of change announced by juncker, notably the €300 billion investment plan promised for the beginning of 2015.
in writing. - i voted for the commission chaired by jean-claude juncker because i think it has a good president, a good composition and a good portuguese commissioner. in the process of hearings in the european parliament, all these elements were well tested and the necessary changes were made. i hope that the commission now elected will be able to honour its oath to safeguard the common interest and to contribute to the strengthening of the european ideal, the experience of european citizenship and the increase of investment and job creation.
in writing. - as a portuguese socialist member of parliament, in accordance with the voting orientation of the socialist and democratic group, i have decided to vote in favour of the investiture of the juncker commission, giving it the benefit of the doubt in the face of the political commitments to change made to the european parliament. the vote, despite the reservations expressed, takes account of the serious inconveniences that would result from a political impasse in the european union and is articulated with an attitude of demand towards the new commission, which will continue in its political oversight. in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the portfolios of sustainable development and energy coordination to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda. the appointments of commissioners with the profile of navracsics and katainen warrant reservations. and the lack of clarity in terms of powers, budgetary flexibility and the investment plan calls for a vigilant attitude. the portuguese socialists will continue to demand that the new commission fully comply with the programme of change announced by juncker, notably the €300 billion investment plan promised for the beginning of 2015.
in writing. - as we said in the debate, all the rhetoric about a supposed new cycle, common to the right and social democracy, does not hide a crystal-clear truth: this is a continuity committee. there's no change here, only faces and even then, not all of them. there's only continuity. continuity in policies, so-called adjustment, that violate fundamental human rights; in unprecedented unemployment, intolerable levels of poverty, growing inequalities. continued structural reforms aimed at bringing living and working conditions in europe down to a level playing field. continued attack on public services and the social functions of the state. continued favouring of the major economic groups those whose representative organisations anticipate in their strategy papers what the european commission's legislative output will be. continued attack on democracy and the sovereign will of the people through instruments such as the treaty on budgets and the european semester. this is a commission associated with all the worst that we have experienced in recent years. this commission is the past, not the future. significantly, it was here supported by ps, psd and cds the supporters and executors, in turn, of right-wing politics. only the will, the mobilization and the struggle of the workers and the peoples can break this continuity and force real change.
in writing. - as a portuguese socialist member of parliament, in accordance with the voting orientation of the socialist and democratic group, i have decided to vote in favour of the investiture of the juncker commission, giving it the benefit of the doubt in the face of the political commitments to change made to the european parliament. the vote, despite the reservations expressed, takes account of the serious inconveniences that would result from a political impasse in the european union and is articulated with an attitude of demand towards the new commission, which will continue in its political oversight. in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the sustainable development and energy coordination portfolios to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda. the appointments of commissioners with the profile of navracsics and katainen warrant reservations. and the lack of clarity in terms of powers, budgetary flexibility and the investment plan calls for a vigilant attitude. the portuguese socialists will continue to demand that the new commission fully comply with the programme of change announced by juncker, notably the €300 billion investment plan promised for the beginning of 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the approval of this college of commissioners, because i consider that it is a balanced team, and that it will be able to implement the necessary policies, in the most important areas, which will lead to a new phase of growth and expansion of the eu. i take this opportunity to wish the president of the commission, mr jean claude junker, and his commissioners, the very best of luck and success in implementing their policies.
in writing. - i saw in juncker the possibility of hope for europe. i saw the possibility of achieving parity and political balance. democracy would be fulfilled. but i do not understand how europe can be governed by those who demand guarantees from those who have almost nothing. i cannot understand a european government which defends equality and in which one of its members has disrespected women and where this member, through a corporate gymnastics, thinks he can buy what is the fundamental value of politics: ethics. a european government whose commissioner, a portuguese like myself, has thrown my country, a rup-madeira, into misery. education and culture were left in the hands of those who muzzled freedom of the press and polluted student mobility. i do not understand a european identity, united by its culture, left in the hands of those who do not believe in it. to deprive commissioner navracsics of his citizenship is an insult to the very culture and education which are the basis of the whole european project. navracsics is not worthy of representing european culture. president juncker did not respect the decision of the committee on culture and what he gave me in hope was taken away by lack of courage.
in writing. - as a portuguese socialist member of parliament, in accordance with the voting orientation of the socialist and democratic group, i have decided to vote in favour of the investiture of the juncker commission, giving it the benefit of the doubt in the face of the political commitments to change made to the european parliament. the vote, despite the reservations expressed, takes account of the serious inconveniences that would result from a political impasse in the european union and is articulated with an attitude of demand towards the new commission, which will continue in its political oversight. in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the portfolios of sustainable development and energy coordination to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda. the appointments of commissioners with the profile of navracsics and katainen warrant reservations. and the lack of clarity in terms of powers, budgetary flexibility and the investment plan calls for a vigilant attitude. the portuguese socialists will continue to demand that the new commission fully comply with the programme of change announced by juncker, notably the €300 billion investment plan promised for the beginning of 2015.
in the light of the political commitments made to the european parliament, i have decided to give the juncker commission the benefit of the doubt. the vote, despite the reservations expressed, takes account of the serious inconveniences that would result from a political impasse in the european union and is articulated with an attitude of demand towards the new commission, which will continue in its political oversight. in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the sustainable development and energy coordination portfolios to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda. the appointments of commissioners with the profile of navracsics and katainen warrant reservations. and the lack of clarity in terms of powers, budgetary flexibility and the investment plan calls for a vigilant attitude. the portuguese socialists will continue to demand that the new commission fully comply with the programme of change announced by juncker, notably the €300 billion investment plan promised for the beginning of 2015.
in writing. - beyond the pretended social concerns for the most disadvantaged, employment and economic growth, what remains of this commission is the certainty of the continuation of the neoliberal orientation of the policies that have dragged the eu into the current recession. beyond the attempt to present a renewed, cohesive european commission, anchored in ten priority projects, in a shared and solidary management, what remains is complete uncertainty surrounding a new confusing organisational chart, with numerous overlapping areas, to which is added a vertical hierarchy that does not bode well, with commissioners of the first, second and even third. the hearings highlight not only the deep link of each of the commissioners to the european commission's neoliberal agendas, but also the direct links to big european capital.
in the light of the political commitments made to the european parliament, i have decided to give the juncker commission the benefit of the doubt. the vote, despite the reservations expressed, takes account of the serious inconveniences that would result from a political impasse in the european union and is articulated with an attitude of demand towards the new commission, which will continue in its political oversight. in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the portfolios of sustainable development and energy coordination to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda. the appointments of commissioners with the profile of navracsics and katainen warrant reservations. and the lack of clarity in terms of powers, budgetary flexibility and the investment plan calls for a vigilant attitude. the portuguese socialists will continue to demand that the new commission fully comply with the programme of change announced by juncker, notably the €300 billion investment plan promised for the beginning of 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the second amending budget for the financial year 2014. i do, however, share the criticisms made by mr josé manuel fernandes. the council is systematically violating the treaty on european union, which clearly states that there can be no deficit in the union's budgetary year. if commitments made with the authorization of the budgetary authority (and therefore also of the council) are not paid for, this only proves that parliament was right when it complained about the difference between the commitment appropriations and the payment appropriations. they also prove that the council lied when it promised to provide the missing funds if they were to be needed.
in writing. - it is urgent and of the utmost importance for the credibility of the european union to ensure that budgetary imbalances are corrected, as there are insufficient appropriations to pay commitments. these imbalances are caused by the council's repeated policy of increasing cuts in budgets, especially in payment appropriations. the council's position in this and other amending budgets will serve to demonstrate whether or not it is in good faith in this process, whether it is reliable and takes its institutional loyalty. these amending budgets are intended to pay for investments, programmes and projects already carried out and duly authorized, often by the council itself, in favour of smes, young people, scientists, local authorities and ngos. it is unacceptable that the council should refuse to pay what it has asked and authorised. it should also be noted that the council has signed declarations each year, in the context of conciliation with parliament, in which it assumes that it approves the necessary amending budgets for payments which are confirmed. commitments are to be honoured and i hope that the commitments between the institutions and with the citizens will be respected.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 2/2014 aims to enter in the 2014 budget a surplus for the financial year 2013 of eur 1005 million, which is mainly the result of a surplus of eur 771 million of positive differences resulting from the implementation of revenue, eur 276 million from under-implementation of expenditure and eur 42 million from negative exchange rate changes. we agree with the principle of transferring the surpluses of a given year to the budget of the following year, provided that this corresponds to additional revenue! we regret that this budget surplus serves to reduce the proportion of the gni-based contribution of the member states to the eu budget, instead of constituting a much-needed extraordinary revenue to make up for the shortfall of a budget determined by a multiannual financial framework for poverty. even more so in the current situation, marked by the accumulation of debts resulting from expenditure authorised by the eu and the non-payment by some of the member states that contribute the most (and should contribute the most, given the need to implement the redistributive function of the budget...) to the eu budget. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this amending budget to accommodate the surpluses resulting from the implementation of the 2013 financial year.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 2/2014 aims to enter in the 2014 budget a surplus for the financial year 2013 of eur 1005 million, which is mainly the result of a surplus of eur 771 million of positive differences resulting from the implementation of revenue, eur 276 million from under-implementation of expenditure and eur 42 million from negative exchange rate changes. we regret that this budget surplus serves to reduce the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the eu budget, rather than providing a much-needed extra revenue at a time when debts resulting from eu-authorised expenditure are accumulating.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, although i criticise the meagreness of the financial resources allocated to the european union. at a time when we are calling for more investment, economic recovery and job creation, we need more europe, not less europe. a budget of less than 1% of gnp is an insufficient budget. especially when we take into account that 94% of the union budget (excluding administrative expenditure) is money that returns to the member states to help public and private investment. the basic accounting and interest-bearing of the so-called net contributors calls for urgent rethinking of the eu's own resources system, which is not largely dependent on payments from the member states.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. the treaties, the financial regulations, the european union 2020 strategy and the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 have to be respected. it is a commitment between the institutions, but it is also a commitment to the citizens. the europe 2020 strategy, which guides the multiannual financial framework, must achieve its objectives, but this requires that we ensure that the necessary means are available to achieve these objectives. the means must match the ambition. the council's proposed cuts of over 500 million in commitments and 2.1 billion in payments for the eu budget for 2015 are therefore unacceptable. i am in favour of strengthening programmes for smes, youth, research and innovation, and the programme to support the most disadvantaged. external solidarity is another concern, underpinning the increases parliament is proposing for humanitarian aid, refugee support and neighbourhood policy. the multiannual financial framework, its programmes, funds and priorities are required to be implemented rapidly.
in writing. - i know . we tabled more than 500 amendments to the draft eu budget for 2015, in a process that started in mid-april with the preparation of pilot projects. in response to the european commission's initial proposal, we proposed a considerable number of amendments to be included in the opinions of the parliamentary committees. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the supervision of the implementation of community law. in addition, the set of proposals we have put forward covers a number of areas, with particular emphasis on social and economic (in defence of national production) and environmental. among many others: defence of public services; increased amounts for the youth employment initiative; support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; promotion of equality between men and women; increased funds for the prevention of natural disasters; increased appropriations for the life programme and the natura 2000 network; increased r & d appropriations; defence of public education; strengthening of school fruit and milk distribution schemes; increased funding for culture; defence of the principle of multilingualism in the european institutions.
in writing. - i agree with the document adopted here today, in which parliament reiterates its position on the eu budget for next year. we must be firm in rejecting the council's cuts to the draft budget. we must find ways of increasing appropriations in such important areas as growth, employment, research, education and humanitarian aid. i also agree that an additional eur 4 billion should be allocated to avoid serious shortfalls in payments to local authorities, smes and other beneficiaries of european funds. this new budget must help the eu to get back on the path to growth and development. i have changed my vote on amendment no 12 by mr bas eickhout, voting against, because i believe that our cultural heritage must be respected and because of the importance of maintaining unique breeds of cattle, including the brave bulls. this amendment reflects what i consider to be strict adherence to the law.
in writing. - i know . our position on the budget and on this proposal reflects our position on this eu, with its neoliberal, federalist and militarist matrix. the eu budget is the concrete expression of a policy aimed at promoting the dismantling of public services, the loss of social and labour rights and public-private partnerships. this is the budget that supports austerity, the european semester and all the agencies that monitor and condition the policies of the member states and punish the bad pupils. it is the budget that supports the increasingly aggressive interventions in various parts of the globe. it is building a fortress europe which is increasingly less in solidarity with its neighbours. this farce or this pseudo-dispute between the commission and the council cannot distract us from the essential point, which is the condemnation of the neoliberal policies of this eu supported by this budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hohlmeier report, although i criticise the meagreness of the financial resources allocated to the european union. at a time when we are calling for more investment, economic recovery and job creation, we need more europe, not less europe. a budget of less than 1% of gnp is an insufficient budget. especially when we take into account that 94% of the union budget (excluding administrative expenditure) is money that returns to the member states to contribute to public and private investment. the basic accounting and interest-bearing of the so-called net contributors calls for urgent rethinking of the eu's own resources system, which is not largely dependent on payments from the member states.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. the treaties, the financial regulations, the european union 2020 strategy and the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 have to be respected. it is a commitment between the institutions, but it is also a commitment to the citizens. the europe 2020 strategy, which guides the multiannual financial framework, must achieve its objectives, but this requires that we ensure that the necessary means are available to achieve these objectives. the means must match the ambition. for the eu budget for 2015, therefore, the cuts proposed by the council of over 500 million in commitments and 2.1 billion in payments are unacceptable. i am in favour of strengthening programmes for smes, youth, research and innovation, and the programme to support the most disadvantaged. external solidarity is another concern, underpinning the increases parliament is proposing for humanitarian aid in support of refugees and in the neighbourhood policy. the multiannual financial framework, its programmes, funds and priorities are required to be implemented rapidly.
in writing. - this report analyses the proposal for a budget of the european union made by the council, on the basis of the commission's initial proposal. this is another year of the usual dance between the commission (the good cop), the council (the bad cop) and parliament. the council's proposed cuts are intended to reimburse parliament for the amounts cut, and in some cases even go beyond this. but it is never enough, in the spirit of trilogue, to negotiate a strengthened budget. in june, the draft general budget of the eu for 2015 proposed by the european commission was doomed from the start to be small compared to what the european union itself had decided in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff). the commission proposal amounts to eur 480 million in commitments and eur 3360 million in payments, which is some 3% less than the amount envisaged in the mff. it also prioritizes the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, among other policies used to attack labour rights, and continues to be channeled to militaristic and neoliberal goals, which we oppose. the report has positive aspects, criticism of the council's position. but it does not call into question fundamental issues such as the political objectives served by this budget. we voted against it.
in writing. - i agree with the document adopted here today, in which parliament reiterates its position on the eu budget for next year. we must be firm in rejecting the council's cuts to the draft budget. we must find ways of increasing appropriations in such important areas as growth, employment, research, education and humanitarian aid. i also agree that an additional eur 4 billion should be allocated to avoid serious shortfalls in payments to local authorities, smes and other beneficiaries of european funds. this new budget must help the eu to get back on the path to growth and development. i have changed my vote on amendment no 12 by mr bas eickhout, voting against, because i believe that our cultural heritage must be respected and because of the importance of maintaining unique breeds of cattle, including the brave bulls.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which provides for a balanced budget and takes account of the present european situation. as regards the amendment tabled concerning the non-allocation of cap funds to killing bulls, it is characterized by a high technical quality. it does not take account of the mechanisms for granting aid under the cap, and it is also unaware that there is no direct aid for the rearing of killing bulls. the authors were required to submit a proposal whose voting direction could result in an effective change. i have not done so, and i believe that a vote in favour could mislead the electorate, since nothing would change in practice. i therefore abstained, since this is a non-amendment, the content of which is absolutely empty.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget. on the other hand, the european union had at the end of 2013 about 23,4 billion in unpaid commitments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in the case of late payments, it seems to me clear that further budget cuts would mean that the union would continue to default on payments for a longer period of time, which not only undermines their credibility but also weakens the financial health of the entities that depend on them. a few words about amendment no 12, on which i abstained, as a way of encouraging a wider and more consequential debate on this subject within the framework of the multiannual financial framework and the cap itself. the conciliation procedures with the council are now being launched, and i hope that they will be in line with the positions we have taken in the report adopted today.
in writing. - i know . our position on the budget and on this proposal reflects our position on this eu, with its neoliberal, federalist and militarist matrix. the eu budget is the concrete expression of a policy aimed at promoting the dismantling of public services, the loss of social and labour rights and public-private partnerships. this is the budget that supports austerity, the european semester and all the agencies that monitor and condition the policies of the member states and punish the bad pupils. it is the budget that supports the increasingly aggressive interventions in various parts of the globe. it is building a fortress europe which is increasingly less in solidarity with its neighbours. this farce or this pseudo-dispute between the commission and the council cannot distract us from the essential point, which is the condemnation of the neoliberal policies of this eu supported by this budget.
in writing. - the signing of the additional protocol to the free trade agreement by all member states and the republic of korea has established a set of important principles for the sustained economic development of the european union, further opening a channel for the distribution of its products. as the republic of croatia has been a full member state since july 2013 and is already covered, albeit provisionally, by this protocol, it makes sense for it to continue to participate fully in this free trade agreement, which is still in force.
in writing. - our position on free trade is well known. remembering lacordaire: between rich and poor, between strong and weak, it is the law that liberates and freedom that oppresses. trade deregulation is a way for the stronger economies to tap into new markets at the expense of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems. asymmetries between countries are growing. and in all of them a race to the bottom is forced in terms of workers' rights and wages. by putting the workforce of different geographical origins in competition, it forces its general devaluation. since the european parliament's approval is a mandatory component of the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol to croatia's accession to the eu, this report is essentially technical in nature, since we are not deciding on the creation of a free trade area or on croatia's accession, but on adapting existing legislation to take account of the consequences of accession. our position on accession is well known: the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - the accession of croatia as an eu member on 1 july 2013 entails the need to approve an amendment to the protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of korea. it is a pro forma measure to preserve the integrity of the internal market of the european union.
written. - the council of the european union concluded on 6 march 2014 the additional protocol to the free trade agreement (fta) signed on 15 october 2009 between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, which already provided for the accession of croatia to the european union, which took place on 1 july 2013. since that date the additional protocol to the eu-south korea fta has been applied on a provisional basis. the council decision thus ensures that croatia, following its accession to the eu, can continue to participate fully in the eu-korea fta, which remains in force. in this respect, and because it is a mandatory component of the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol, i voted in favour of this recommendation, which contributes to maintaining and preserving the integrity of the european internal market.
in writing. - since the approval by the european parliament is a mandatory component of the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol of croatia's accession to the european union, it is no less true that this moment should serve for a deep reflection on what eu enlargement has been over the past decades. this enlargement has not contributed to the development of these countries. in fact, despite the initial aid, they do not conceal the weakening of the productive apparatus, with very serious social consequences. even the infrastructure subsidized by european funds is now serving the large industry of central europe, thus proving that enlargement is mainly based on a strategy of expanding markets and attracting cheap labour.
in writing. - the european semester is now an essential tool in coordinating the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. despite the encouraging signs of the past two years, in a context of overall unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, persistently high public debt levels, low nominal gdp growth, banking crisis and fragmentation of the labour market, this coordination becomes vital to support the eu's economic recovery in order to deliver more growth and jobs. i believe it is important and necessary to adopt an ambitious initiative to stimulate investment across the eu and to revive the economy, boosting european investment by eur 300 billion as proposed by president juncker. i also believe that it is a matter of priority to focus our efforts on strengthening competitiveness, supporting job creation, combating unemployment and monitoring reforms to improve the financing of the economy and labour markets, objectives which the european council had already set in march.
in writing. - in this global world, the eu must be competitive, uphold its values and social status, and ensure that all resources are able to promote sustainable growth, job creation and territorial cohesion. the economic environment in europe is further characterised by a sluggish gdp (increased by 0.2% in the eu28 in the second quarter of 2014), markedly low inflation (reduced by 0.3% in august 2014) and an excessively high unemployment rate (11.5% in the euro area and 10.2% in the eu28 in july 2014). the economic recovery in the eu has shown encouraging signs over the past two years, but it is still fragile and uneven, and an ambitious initiative to stimulate investment across the eu is urgently needed to re-launch and support economic dynamism. these are the expected completion of the banking union and urgent reforms for all member states where the difficulties of setting up businesses are a barrier, as well as moving forward with a €300 billion european investment programme, as proposed by jean-claude juncker, to help europe recover in the short term from growth.
in writing. - this report comments on the implementation of the european semester in the last semester and makes recommendations for the next, which will start with the publication of the annual growth survey by the commission at the end of november. the report is full of the rhetoric of socially balanced and sustainable growth, the call for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment, and everything that is intended to make us believe that we are entering a new cycle. the enthusiasm is marked by the promise to increase investment by 300 billion euros - the solution to all ills! the truth is that the european semester is an attack on the interests and aspirations of workers and peoples, an anti-democratic process, an attack on the rights of sovereignty. more recessionary policies that destroy thousands of jobs every day is the meaning of this process. the paper is the best: development of smes, with the aim of promoting sustainable, smart and inclusive economic growth and quality employment; combating youth unemployment; and so on... this report calls not only for the continuation of this unacceptable process but for the deepening of its basic features. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. - after six years of economic crisis and negative growth rates, the economic recovery is slowly gaining ground and is expected to spread to all member states by 2015. the commission's forecasts for economic recovery are still weak and reforms must continue to meet citizens' employment and social needs and to restore productivity and competitiveness. in many areas of the eu, social conditions are poor and unemployment has reached unprecedented levels. measures to address this social and unemployment situation are needed, which would improve the prospects for competitiveness and growth. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - we are equally in solidarity with the ukrainian people. that is why we condemned the illegal coup d'état supported by the eu and the us. we also know that the eu is helping the people of ukraine in portugal. in exchange for financial aid, the eu will impose economic liberalisation. it will dismantle the productive apparatus of that country, which is not in a position to compete with the big european companies. the eu is not trying to help. it only wants to expand its market to new consumers and gain access to raw materials from ukraine. if the eu wants to help, it must demand that the current coup government in ukraine respect human rights. that you stop supporting the fascist militias that persecute trade unionists and other social activists. condemn the attempt to outlaw the communist party of ukraine and investigate all the crimes committed, with particular reference to the crime in odessa. this is the help that the eu should be giving.
we express our strongest solidarity with the people of kobani, who have been the victims of inhuman and violent armed terrorist groups. it is important to condemn all forms of terrorism, including state terrorism. the population of kobani is the victim of jihadist armed groups with sophisticated weapons and a totalitarian ideology, which have been armed and financed for the last three years by the allies of the united states of america, where, indeed, turkey has also played an important role, with the support of the governments of the united states of america and the european union. it was, incidentally, the confession made this month by the vice-president of the united states himself, joe biden. obviously, it's not going to be more meddling, more war, more arms and more division and destabilization of the middle east that will solve the problem. the causes of the proliferation of terrorism must be tackled. so that the same historical processes are not repeated, so that we learn from them and so that the political responsibilities that are in plain sight are not whitewashed.
kobani is a small, concrete and real town, where at the moment a few, a few, thousands of kurds are heroically resisting the siege of the islamic state and, for that very reason, it has become a symbol before the whole international community and, as such, particularly appeals to us. it is true that what is happening in that region is the result of profound geopolitical changes in recent years: some have resulted from internal movements, others have been the product of some external interference. but this is not a time for mere reflection or analysis, this must be a time for action, for action in many ways, for the european union. of course, humanitarian action towards the kurds, towards these specific human beings who are suffering in full view of the world. secondly, strong diplomatic action to create the conditions for a structural solution to the conflict. and thirdly, the european union cannot fail to support in every way those who are currently helping, who are currently on the ground fighting the islamic state. the islamic state is, first and foremost, a threat to the whole of that region, but it is also a very profound threat to europe.
i would like to begin by expressing my deepest admiration for the young students in hong kong who are currently fighting for democracy with extraordinary courage. and they have, apparently, almost everything against them: a great power, china, and the cynicism of a significant part of the international community, cynicism often for economic and commercial reasons but also cynicism for reasons of ideological passion. it is curious to see how many people here in europe who are always ready to attack the european union and the united states of america for all the world are now so suddenly silent about what is happening in hong kong. so this is my expression of solidarity and admiration for the young people of hong kong, but at the same time, of course, also to express confidence that it is possible to develop successfully a negotiation process which is under way and which, if successful, will contribute greatly to the development of china itself into a future which we all want to see as soon as possible.
the death sentence against asia bibi is a tragic development which could jeopardise the relationship between pakistan and the european union, in particular by calling into question the partnership agreement and the implementation of the gps plus system. we deplore the decision of the pakistani government to lift, in july 2014, in the context of a draconian allegedly anti-terrorism law, the unofficial moratorium on the use of the death penalty which this parliament, like the un general assembly, has repeatedly called on pakistan and all countries to do. the extension of this moratorium was granted by the government of prime minister nawaz sharif to a delegation of the european parliament's human rights subcommittee, which i chaired in august 2013, precisely in the context of the human rights conditions that the european parliament required to give its consent to the benefit of gps plus by pakistan. the alleged crime of asia bibi, a christian mother of five, is a mirror of an archaic, patriarchal and caste society that still exists in pakistan, but where there is also a vibrant civil society that we have contacted and who wants to transform pakistan, wants to see reforms, wants to see a democratic and a freer and safer society. that is why we have to be more committed to the relationship with pakistan, we have to support civil society, we have to realize that it is with these reforms that pakistan can in fact guarantee the rights of minorities and in particular of the christian minorities who live abjectly in pakistan. the case of asia bibi is a decisive one and this message must be clearly conveyed by the council, the commission and this parliament to the pakistani authorities. it's not to steal from dialogue and interaction; on the contrary, it is to invest more in this dialogue and interaction because pakistan is, in fact, a key player in the region for stability and security in the region.
the recruitment of european jihadists to fight on behalf of the so-called islamic state, which is neither a state nor an islamic state, or other terrorist organisations, shows that the challenges to our security and global security depend on the resolution of conflicts in the neighbourhood, in particular in the middle east, and shows how we need a smart and strategic security and defence policy that integrates the external and internal dimensions. the jihadists who return to europe or who may still be intercepted here can only be treated in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, which we are, and specifically in the framework of criminal law, being brought to justice, punished and then, if necessary, helped to reintegrate socially. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. we must learn from past mistakes in the fight against terrorism. it will not be effective and will not distinguish us from the terrorists if it is not carried out in strict respect for fundamental human rights. the so-called foreign fighters are not foreigners, they are in fact europeans. we need to understand and combat the contexts of social discrimination, unemployment, religious intolerance and other forms of alienation that predispose them to be recruited. in view of the real threat they pose to europeans and other peoples, the european union must agree on a strategy involving substantial means to coordinate the contributions of the intelligence services but also of the police, judicial authorities, social services, educational and community actors to programmes for preventing radicalisation and de-radicalisation. the fact that we are confronted with european jihadists also reinforces our responsibility to put in place an effective common foreign policy that effectively resolves or helps resolve conflicts, reflecting the holistic approach that we talk about so much but little has been put into practice, from iraq to syria, through palestine to libya, looking at the rest of africa, north africa and beyond, and not forgetting countries that are said to be our allies, such as saudi arabia and qatar, which have been funding and providing the means for the recruitment of young people around the world to terrorist networks.
in writing. the manhunt carried out by operation mos maiorum between 13 and 26 october, involving some 20 000 police officers, is the clear response to the persecution, violation of rights and discrimination to which the european union has accustomed us when it comes to unwanted immigrants. the scandalous strengthening of the eu's security policy and the criminalization of illegal immigration, which treats these people in a totally dehumanizing way, is insisted on, when what would be needed is the development of social and just policies of social reception and integration, as well as an end to the interference and fomenting of conflicts, for which the eu is responsible, in many of the countries of origin of these immigrants. ironically, this has been the institution that won the nobel peace prize.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. since then, hundreds of people have also been charged, tried and tortured for the andijan massacre in closed proceedings, in violation of the right to a fair trial and in accordance with international standards. some of the crimes committed are subject to universal jurisdiction and the member states of the european union also have a duty to investigate and prosecute them where possible. in the face of this situation, in a country where there are thousands of political prisoners, where torture is a common practice, where forced labour and child labour are massively institutionalized, we must put pressure on the european union. at least there should be regular visits to prisons by un agencies and the red cross, and cooperation with un special rapporteurs to carry out basic reforms. i visited uzbekistan in 2011. we were very dissatisfied with the european union delegation at the time, precisely because we could not even talk to real human rights activists. the european union has a huge responsibility in uzbekistan.
the protection of human rights in uzbekistan must be guaranteed and effectively implemented by the uzbek state under the international conventions that the country has committed itself to. reports of detentions for exercising freedom of expression, child labour, arbitrariness and torture in the uzbek criminal and justice system are widely documented and cause deep condemnation by the international community. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that this motion be adopted and that the request made in it to ask the council, the commission and the eeas to provide parliament with a public assessment of the measures taken by the eu to pressure uzbekistan to comply with the human rights criteria. i also think it is essential that a monitoring mechanism for uzbekistan be set up within the un human rights council, which can monitor the human rights situation in the country on a permanent basis. finally, and as the report calls for, i hope that at the next meeting of the eu-uzbekistan human rights dialogue in november there will be toughness and a clear focus on results from the eu in addressing these issues.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 september last, 43 mexican students from the raúl isidro burgos school of education in iguala went missing. i want to express my solidarity with the families of these young people, who were taking part in a peaceful demonstration and were violently repressed. suspicions are being raised about some municipal police officers, the mayor of iguala, as well as the paramilitary group guerreros unidos. dear colleagues, since september 26th, at least 10 mass graves and 28 bodies have been discovered in guerrero. who are these victims? can anyone tell? we're just going to forget about them? it turns out that since 2007, more than 100,000 people have died because of drug-related violence in mexico. the question i leave open is: how does the european union intend to promote the strategic association with mexico in order to help to reduce the enormous social disparities in that country and what joint policies can we develop to combat the world drug trade, if, on the other hand, the presidency of this parliament refuses to send parliamentary delegations to that geographical area for dialogue with latin american partners, which shows a clear disinvestment in that region?
in the light of the recent developments in the region, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: regulation no 374/2014 on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine entered into force on 23 april 2014 and was intended to apply until 1 november 2014. on 12 september 2014, the eu decided to propose to its member states the extension of the agreement until 31 december 2015, while maintaining the eu autonomous trade measures in favour of ukraine during that period. in order to support ukraine in its extremely difficult political, economic and security situation, i support the extension of the eu-ukraine agreement, as well as support the introduction of the human rights clause providing for the suspension or termination of this agreement in case of non-compliance by ukraine with the democratic principles of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. this solution is part of a comprehensive peace process for ukraine, respecting the territorial integrity of the country as well as its right to decide its own destiny.
in the light of the recent events in the ukraine, the european union has decided to extend its cooperation with the countries of the former soviet union and to extend its cooperation with the countries of the former soviet union. the extension of the autonomous trade measures remains one of the most effective measures as evidenced by the statistics: in the first half of 2014, ukrainian exports to the eu increased significantly and ukrainian exports to russia decreased due to trade restrictions on goods from ukraine seeking access to the russian market as well as their unpredictability. the increase is around eur 587 million, which, combined with other factors, proves that the mca is undoubtedly among the possibilities available to ukrainian producers and companies to seek new markets and reduce the negative consequences of the russian trade retaliatory measures against ukraine. the csfs also act as an incentive to adapt their operation and rules to the eu.
in writing. - we stand in solidarity with the ukrainian people. we therefore condemn the coup d'état and the coming to power of a government which is composed of forces of an avowedly fascist character. that is also why we voted against the free trade agreement, which could prove disastrous for many sectors of the ukrainian economy, as well as for the economies of several eu countries, including portugal. the alleged aid that the eu intends to give to the people of ukraine is also known in portugal. in exchange for financial aid, the eu will impose the liberalisation of the economy; the deregulation and privatisation of various sectors; the dismantling of the country's productive apparatus, which is not in a position to compete with the big european companies. the eu is not trying to help. it just wants to expand its market to new consumers and gain access to its raw materials. the report proposes in particular to postpone the entry into force of the trade provisions of the eu-ukraine association agreement. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - we approve here today the extension of the duty-free regime for ukrainian products until the end of 2015. this extension will allow ukrainian products to continue to benefit from a preferential regime for entering the eu. in april, a regulation reducing or eliminating customs duties on goods originating in ukraine entered into force. this measure was adopted with the aim of supporting political and economic stability in ukraine and was to be in force for six months, expiring when the trade provisions of the eu-ukraine association agreement entered into force. as the eu and ukraine decided on 12 september to postpone the provisional application of those provisions until 31 december 2015, it is necessary to extend the exemption from customs duties for ukrainian products until that date. that is why i am voting in favour.
in the light of the recent events in the ukraine, the european union has decided to extend the mandate of the european union to ukraine. unfortunately, this country, which is a neighbour of the eu, is facing very serious, complex and absolutely exceptional security, political, social and economic challenges, which justify the eu's support measures which are also exceptional. i therefore supported this extension of the application of regulation (eu) no 374/2014 on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine until 31 december 2015, hoping that this measure can contribute positively to the desirable political and economic stabilisation of ukraine, recalling that this measure is part of an overall peace process for ukraine, as can be read in the report voted today.
in writing. - we are equally in solidarity with the ukrainian people. that is why we condemned the illegal coup d'état supported by the eu and the us. we also know that the eu is helping the people of ukraine in portugal. in exchange for financial aid, the eu will impose economic liberalisation. it will dismantle the productive apparatus of that country, which is not in a position to compete with the big european companies. the eu is not trying to help. it only wants to expand its market to new consumers and gain access to raw materials from ukraine. if the eu wants to help, it must demand that the current coup government in ukraine respect human rights. that you stop supporting the fascist militias that persecute trade unionists and other social activists. condemn the attempt to outlaw the communist party of ukraine and investigate all the crimes committed, with particular reference to the crime in odessa. this is the help that the eu should be giving.
in writing. - the evolution and improvement of operating procedures and standards and the management of resources in the body of european regulators for electronic communications have demonstrated the relevance and importance of democratic control of the institutions and of good interinstitutional relations as factors of credibility and appreciation of the public service to be provided to all citizens of the european union. good management and administrative efficiency practices are perfectly framed and even stimulated by full respect and compliance with legislation and regulatory standards.
in writing. - at the april plenary session this year, parliament adopted the report of the committee on budgetary control which proposed to postpone the discharge to the 2012 budget of the office of the body of regulators for electronic communications. the reason for this delay was due to problems in the office's administration related to budget and financial management, commitment and payment appropriations, award and contracting procedures and final annual accounts. the report states that the office is making an effort to resolve the problems previously identified, mainly in respect of commitment and payment appropriations, such as better budget planning and strict monitoring of monthly and annual payments. the committee on budgetary control therefore proposes to grant the office discharge for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. this appears to be the case for the body of european regulators for electronic communications, and i therefore vote in favour of the discharge for the 2012 accounts.
in writing. - the reason for this postponement, which proposed to postpone the discharge to the 2012 budget of the office of the body of regulators for electronic communications, was due to problems in the administration of the office related to budget and financial management, with commitment and payment appropriations, with the award and contracting procedures and with the final annual accounts. the report points to efforts to resolve the problems previously detected and therefore the committee on budgetary control gives the discharge for the financial year 2012 to the office.
in writing. - in the name of transparency and rigour in the management of public affairs, i voted in favour of this report, reinforcing parliament's position in defence of the legality, the treaties and the rights of european citizens. all union institutions must ensure that procedures and rules are in place to ensure that they operate in a transparent and well-managed manner and that they are fully accountable to european citizens, in particular with regard to the funds entrusted to them and the funds they are responsible for using and managing. in this context, it is important that due attention be paid to the recommendations of the court of auditors to the budget managers of the european council and the council to improve the design, coordination and implementation of the award procedures through appropriate controls and better guidance. i would also stress the importance of clarifying and resolving a number of outstanding issues, such as the europa building and the residence palace project. the provision and full disclosure of public accounts cannot be treated as acts of interference or a dispute over institutional supremacy, but as respect for democracy, the rule of law and transparency.
in writing. - at its april plenary session this year, parliament adopted the report of the committee on budgetary control which proposed postponing discharge to the 2012 budget of the european council and the council. the problems which led parliament to postpone discharge are related to the court of auditors' assessment, which found errors in the design of the contract award procedures, and also to the council's repeated refusal to provide detailed information so that the european parliament can make an assessment of the council's budget. this is an old war. once again the council did not reply to parliament's questions or provide the documents relating to the implementation of the budget. since april, when the european parliament decided to postpone discharge, there has been no effort by the council to answer the questions put by parliament or to resolve the matter. the report is therefore critical of the council's position and proposes not to grant the council discharge. as was the case in the financial years 2009, 2010 and 2011.
in the case of the european parliament, the court of auditors is responsible for the financial management of the european union. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. however, according to the rapporteur, this is not yet the position of the european council and the council, and i therefore vote in favour of refusing to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the problems that led parliament to postpone discharge to the 2012 budget are related to the court of auditors' assessment, which found errors in the design of the contract award procedures, and also to the council's recurrent refusal to provide detailed information so that the ep can make an assessment of the council's budget. the council again failed to reply to the ep's questions or to hand over the documents relating to the implementation of the budget. the report is therefore critical of the council's position and proposes not to grant the council discharge. as was the case in the financial years 2009, 2010 and 2011.
in writing. - in the 28 eu member states, some 42 200 people are directly employed in the inland waterway transport sector, 31 000 of whom are mobile workers (73%). approximately 9 650 companies are active in the inland waterway transport sector. this proposal lays down requirements for mobile workers in the inland waterway transport sector. the agreement concluded by the social partners in the inland waterway transport sector takes account of the working time directive and proposes a number of specific requirements in line with the specific characteristics of the sector, in particular as regards the reference period. it also provides for a minimum number of hours of daily and weekly rest and a maximum number of hours of night work, in order to take account of the specific working conditions and characteristics of the sector. the agreement applies to both seagoing (crew) and cabin crew, covers the carriage of passengers and goods and contains specific provisions on seasonal work on passenger ships. . does not apply to persons operating ships on their own account (owner-operators) i voted in favour. and.
in writing. - the agreement on specific aspects of the organization of working time in the inland waterway transport sector lays down minimum requirements for safety and health at work which have positive aspects. such as the right to at least four weeks of paid annual leave and to benefit from free annual health checks. however, many of the principles laid down run counter to the demands of workers in the sector, particularly in portugal. the agreement provides for an average working time of 48 hours, whereas portuguese legislation provides for 40 hours. it also provides for a maximum reference period of 12 months, which allows for working hours of more than 8 hours. in addition to other provisions which may lead to greater flexibility and deregulation of working time. although the directive states as its objectives the protection of the health and safety of workers in a sector with predominantly cross-border characteristics, it is necessary to ensure that the most favourable national legislation is not prejudiced by the application of the directive.
in writing. - it is useful that agreements concluded by the social partners with the commission provide only for minimum requirements, leaving the member states and/or the social partners free to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the field concerned. these are matters in which each member state should be able to negotiate according to the needs of the sectors concerned. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the agreement has positive aspects, such as the right to at least four weeks of paid annual leave and the benefit of free annual health checks. however, the agreement provides for an average monthly working time of 48 hours, whereas portuguese legislation provides for 40 hours and also provides that the maximum reference period is 12 months, which allows working hours of more than 8 hours. it is necessary to ensure that the most favourable national legislation is not prejudiced by the application of the directive.
in writing. - the agreement on specific aspects of the organisation of working time in the inland waterway transport sector sets minimum requirements for safety and health at work, which has positive aspects such as the right to at least four weeks of paid annual leave or the benefit of free annual health checks. however, many of the principles laid down run counter to the demands of the workers in the sector, particularly in portugal. the agreement provides for an average monthly working time of 48 hours, whereas portuguese legislation provides for 40 hours. it also sets the maximum reference period at 12 months, allowing for working hours in excess of 8 hours, in addition to other provisions which may lead to greater flexibility in working hours. while the objectives expressed in the directive are the protection of the health and safety of workers in a sector with predominantly cross-border characteristics, it is necessary to ensure that the most favourable national legislation is not prejudiced by the application of the directive.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. first of all, that's what they're celebrating. but what happens is that the capitalist system, which at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s presented itself as the best in the world in terms of democracy, human rights, economic development and social progress, is not only unable to solve the problems of the peoples, but tends to aggravate them more and more, to the point of calling into question the very existence of humanity. the defeats of socialism have not changed the essence of capitalism, but have made its unjust and inhuman nature more evident. the violent exploitative offensive which workers are facing today and which threatens the world with a social regression of a civilizational dimension, the destabilization and destruction of entire countries and regions, the advance of fascism, the danger of a new war of catastrophic proportions, all this - to the anguish of some - not only belies the theses about the end of the class struggle and the death of communism, but also shows that socialism is more current and necessary than ever.
the reason for electronic voting is to ensure that the vote is secret. if the president gives only as an alternative vote for or not vote. if i do not vote, the whole house will know that i do not approve of this choice and i may not want the house to know whether i approve or disapprove of this choice and therefore what i ask is that you repeat it because this system does not ensure that the vote is secret.
on behalf of the s&d group. the revelations about what is happening in luxembourg are not new, and yet they are a scandal. they are a scandal because they have allowed everyone to see, all citizens to see, the extent and sophistication of the aggressive tax optimisation practices carried out in a member state. but the most serious thing is that, as we know, this is not a practice unique to luxembourg. the european commission has seven investigations in different european countries, but the most complicated thing to explain is the fact that many of these agreements and many of these practices end up being legal. the big law firms and consultants are making sure of it and there's a lot of immorality here. companies are operating in eu countries, they are paying taxes almost nowhere and, above all, they are not paying taxes where they should be paying them. citizens are being crushed in these same countries with taxes and austerity policies, while big multinationals are defrauding the taxpayer of billions of euros. this is deeply immoral. and when situations become immoral as in this case, they cannot be protected by european law. that is what the law is for: it is to make compatible what is illegal with what is morally intolerable to the citizens. that is the function of policy and that is the function of legislation, which means that legislation has to change and has to change at european level. jean-claude juncker knows his home country's practices better than anyone else and the credibility of the european commission and its entire team comes from being the leader, the central agent of a radical change in the european agenda by coming forward with serious proposals to put an end to these situations. we need a much clearer commitment than the one that was presented here today, with a comprehensive timetable and with a clear commitment to this parliament that something is going to change radically in the european union after this huge scandal. this is what the citizens demand and this is what the council must also recognise by revising its traditional unanimity law, because it prevents the progress that is needed. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8)))
he asks under the blue card procedure. i would like to ask the honourable member whether we have heard president juncker speak about tax competition. the competition i was used to in the european union, in the free market, is between companies producing products and not between states in the european union itself. i ask you whether this notion of tax competition between states is not a form of betrayal and disloyalty between the states themselves and a betrayal of the very founding principles of the european union.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. this is exactly the interpretation of our political group, namely that competition is between companies and that there must be a minimum of harmonisation between the states in their administrative and tax practices in order to prevent the efforts of economic actors from being overtaken by these practices. that said, i cannot help recommending that within your liberal political group you raise the same issue and a strong debate at this time both at the level of your colleagues and at the level of the prime ministers and members of the government who continue to block even the slightest degree of fiscal harmonization at the council level.
it is very clear that while he was prescribing austerity and impoverishment, cuts in wages, pensions, health, education, social security, while he was supporting brutal tax increases on the general population, the current president of the european commission was responsible for secret agreements with hundreds of multinationals to save them from paying taxes, depriving the states of hundreds of billions of euros of tax revenue that was due to him. we are therefore discussing the conditions for taking up the post you hold. we're talking about the interests and the goals it serves. the scandal is well known and now the need for tax harmonization in the european union is being advocated. there is little or no doubt about the interests that such tax harmonization would serve. it is evidence that the problem goes far beyond luxembourg. the problem cannot be solved without the outright elimination of tax havens. if they really wanted to do something to change the current state of affairs, that's where they would start.
i think it is clear today that there is no fraud, no illegality in luxembourg as in other member states, no tax evasion, but it is clear that there is aggressive tax planning, there is tax avoidance and in tax matters each member state seeks the maximum from the revenue. the absence of illegality does not mean that we should not seek ethics, values and fairness, which are fundamental and which is why we need more integration, more common rules and more tax harmonization. it is quite clear that 'proudly alone' does not work in many areas and in tax matters it is certainly not a good solution either, but we do not want to take advantage of this situation to flatten taxes, to increase them, on the contrary, the fight against tax evasion, which is what is happening in this case, but there is also fraud and tax evasion, are essential to increase revenue and in this case, in this sense, to reduce taxes and in particular taxes on small and mediumsized enterprises. i also regret the way this debate has been conducted, which at times gives me the feeling that the european commission is being re-elected. what we have at the moment is to reach a platform of understanding, knowing that the big problem is not even in parliament, it is in the necessary unanimity in the council to change the tax rules. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8)))
he asks under the blue card procedure. where is the morality and ethics of the fiscal amnesty that the portuguese government, under the adjustment program with the blessing of the troika, gave to the espírito santo family gangsters in portugal?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. my colleague ana gomes often brings national issues to this debate. just as there are no virtuous member states, i also believe that there will be no virtuous and totally virtuous governments in this matter and the government of mr socrates and the government that had as vice-president antónio costa, on the question of tax evasion, can in no way make us proud and the honourable member is pleased to know that in recent years tax revenues in portugal have increased precisely because of the fight against tax evasion that has been taking place, even though the troika itself was often suspicious of this possibility and, from this point of view, the example of the portuguese government can be brought here to share the best practices in this field.
if it were not for the apparatus, i would say that we had come to a church today and not to a plenary session of the european parliament. mr juncker began by saying that we do not have to prove anything, we just have to believe him, so it is a matter of faith. then mr juncker says that tax engineering is not exclusive to luxembourg but is an ecumenical phenomenon in the european union and then we have mr moscovici, who played the role of friar thomas, preached a lot, preached a lot, but then says that the european commission can basically do nothing. i ask you, mr moscovici, if you will listen to me, three very specific questions. a strategy and concrete policy measures to combat tax fraud and evasion? the end of tax havens? the definition of the tax to be applied to all large multinationals operating within the euro area area? which of these will you commit yourself to or will you continue to be immoral and indecent as your commission president is?
madam president, the luxembourg leaks expose the costs of non-europe. while our governments in the council, and the commission, callously impose brutal taxes and austerity policies, there is little for the middle classes and the poor. they immorally compete to provide schemes for tax avoidance and tax evasion for the rich and large companies via tax rulings, and even via tax amnesties such as the ones offered by the portuguese government – with the blessing of the troika – to the gangsters of the espirito santo family in 2012, and many others. we will not have public or private investment in growth and jobs, and we will not have fair competition and a true single market, if our member states continually embark on this race to the bottom on tax dumping. the commission must act – and urgently. first: deliver on the ongoing investigations on state aid to luxembourg, ireland, holland and so on. secondly: support the european parliament in the anti-money laundering directive negotiations and in the demand for a publicly accessible registry of beneficial ownership in social participation, including foundations and trusts. thirdly: deliver on country-by-country reporting, recovering and helping countries to recover taxes evaded and confiscate the proceeds of tax fraud. finally, the commission should welcome the commission of investigation set up by this parliament, because this will only help the commission to put pressure on our governments in the council to act.
in writing. we condemn the absolutely cynical way in which the commission assumes the alleged sheer legality of tax agreements with the member states and, in particular, with luxembourg. while the commission was receiving austerity and impoverishment, cuts in wages, pensions, health, education and social security, brutal tax increases on the general population, the current president of the european commission was responsible for secret deals with hundreds of multinationals to save them millions in tax payments. it has deprived the states of hundreds of billions of euros of tax revenue that was owed to them and which was and is so much needed to finance the welfare state. the scandal is well known, but now the real meaning of the debate is being distorted and the need for tax harmonization in the european union is being defended. a hollow debate, which omits, among other things, the existence of tax havens. if they really wanted to change the current state of affairs, that's where they would start.
i would like to begin by expressing once again, on behalf of my party, our solidarity with the cypriot people, who have been living under turkish occupation since 1973, when turkey invaded the northern part of the island and killed thousands of people. this crime continues, to this day, with impunity. this occupation has never been recognized by any state, except turkey itself. this invasion of the exclusive economic zone of cyprus is an unspeakable provocation which must be condemned in the strongest terms. we have once again noted the double standard of the european union: a european union that is quick and ready when it comes to following nato and the united states' directives, but that is nothing more than pious declarations when it comes to the sovereignty of one of its states. i hope that the european union will go further this time by imposing sanctions on turkey and thus help to continue the peace negotiations with a view to reunification.
the conflict in south sudan, which has dragged on for almost a year, lacks an urgent political solution. the united nations representative on sexual violence in armed conflict told the security council just a few days ago that in her thirty years of experience she had never seen such human suffering, particularly of women and children who are victims of rape with weapons of war and on ethnic grounds. and this is also the framework in which humanitarian ngos are being prevented, including by the sudanese government itself, from intervening. it is time to question the very capacity of igad to mediate the peace process when igad member countries are accomplices, supporters and also responsible for dragging the conflict along. the european union has a lot to do with the existence of south sudan. you can't wash your hands! we must urge the un security council to intervene - now - to impose an arms embargo on south sudan that should have been in place by now. and to impose targeted sanctions at the highest level so that they actually understand that this cannot continue. the inclusion of civil society in the peace process must also be urgently called for, because otherwise we are in fact contributing to the systematic breach of ceasefires. a peace agreement cannot guarantee impunity for those responsible for the violence in southern sudan. we must include a hybrid special court - with international involvement - or determine the jurisdiction of the international criminal court to investigate and punish war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in southern sudan. only in this way can we one day build peace in this country so tormented.
i shall only speak of the application of these agreements on swiss territory. this is a matter of very serious concern because there are some 120 000 portuguese workers in switzerland. these workers are present in many sectors, from construction, to the hotel industry, to metalworking, to watchmaking... obviously, a large number of these workers suffer the scourge of unemployment. the portuguese social security system does not automatically recognise social benefits granted by switzerland. that is, it covers pensions, disability and the unemployment benefit itself. we therefore support these measures which aim to harmonize social security rules and thus facilitate the mobility of workers.
the european union needs an intelligent policy for coordinating migration within its territory and between it and third countries. a wise policy must first of all be fair and humane, but it must also take account of the creation of the best economic and social conditions for the permanent or temporary integration of migrants. we need to attract talented and creative people to the european union. we cannot close the door to the despair of those who try to cross our borders in the name of survival, but it is bolder and more courageous if we are able to put into practice an active policy of openness and exchange. the more migrants who arrive in the union - not in a desperate flight, but as part of a common project they want to share - and the more europeans who leave our territory not in disillusionment, but with a universalist sense and a global vision, the more humane and sustainable the migration policy of the eu can be. that is the sense of the proposed amendments, although they are clearly insufficient, and they deserve my support.
the approval of this agreement means the surrender of moldova and its sovereignty to the interests of the major economic groups and the major powers of the european union. as we know with regret, this agreement will severely restrict the taking of measures in portugal to protect its national production. it will put workers under pressure to cut wages and benefits even further. the removal of customs barriers will open up the public sector to competition from foreign firms. the agreement will subject workers, small and mediumsized enterprises and small and mediumsized farmers to a process of fierce competition, requiring them to sell the products of their labour at a discount. as a corollary, it will increase the pressure on external and internal balances, increasing deficits and debts. a common story in many countries in europe. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
he asks under the blue card procedure. just yesterday, on the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, it was said that happiness implies freedom and freedom implies courage. i would like to ask the honourable member whether he does not believe in the strength of the moldovan people, in the interests of the moldovan people, and whether he would rather support the ruling clique which does not allow these citizens freedom.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i just question the criteria, who determines what freedom is, what democracy is, and history has proven that these criteria are often anything but objective. in this particular case, i shall simply observe what has happened in many countries, particularly in southern europe and in particular in portugal, where the balance sheet, even 25 years after the fall of the berlin wall, 20 years after the introduction of the euro, is what is in plain view.
i want to congratulate you on this agreement, but i also want to express some apprehensions. if this deal is for the advancement of democracy in moldova, yes. if this agreement is to free moldova from russian colonialism, as has already been stated here, i have concerns because i do not think that is the best way to do it. this agreement will come into force and be fully effective if it is accepted by the moldovan people. i therefore think that, unlike what has happened in ukraine, this agreement may have a future, the question is whether the european union will scrutinize, will monitor the use of the funds, the generous economic funds that are being allocated to moldova, or whether the same thing will happen as has happened in other countries, in particular in my country, in portugal, where the funds have been handed over to the political elites and have been spent many times on corruption, many times on electoral politics and not for the purposes for which they should be used.
in writing. the request for waiver of immunity was triggered in the context of statements made by ms ana gomes during a televised debate, with a view to allowing criminal proceedings to be brought against her and her to be questioned in the same proceedings. in the television programme in question, ana gomes, a member of the european parliament, spoke about the portuguese government's decision to privatise the viana do castelo shipyards. as a result of the sub-concession to private owners of the land and facilities of the viana do castelo shipyard, the company was dismantled and the overwhelming majority of its workers were laid off. the pcp has denounced and fought against this crime against the country from the very beginning, including in the european parliament, and the psd, cds and ps share responsibility for it. the principle underlying parliamentary immunity provided for in article 8 of the protocol is that members are free to take part in debates and to represent their constituents on matters of public interest. this principle is not a personal privilege of members but a guarantee of the independence of the whole parliament and its members in the performance of their duties. we therefore support the rapporteur's vote not to waive ana gomes' immunity.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has the power to adopt decisions which are binding on the member states. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. this request for withdrawal is made by a prosecutor of the lisbon criminal investigation and prosecution department in the context of allegedly defamatory statements made by ana gomes during a televised debate, in order to allow a criminal case to be brought against ana gomes and for her to be questioned in the same case. the ep considered that in the television programme in question, ana gomes had appeared as a member of the european parliament to discuss matters of interest to her at european level, as was shown in particular by the questions for written answer which she had submitted to the commission. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. i am therefore in favour of defending the parliamentary immunity of mrs ana gomes.
in writing. - without calling into question the legal correctness of the decision of the committee on legal affairs, i decided to abstain on the grounds that the statements in question deserve a judgment of political censure.
in writing. - in the television programme which gave rise to the request for waiver of immunity, ana gomes spoke as a member of the european parliament, drawing attention to the decision of the portuguese government on the privatisation of the viana do castelo shipyard a decision which also gave rise to an investigation by the european commission into the violation of eu state aid provisions. as a result of the sub-concession of the private use of the viana do castelo shipyard, the company was dismantled and the overwhelming majority of its workers were laid off. the principle underlying parliamentary immunity provided for in article 8 of the protocol is that members are free to participate constructively in the debate and to represent their constituents on matters of public interest. this principle is not a personal privilege of members but a guarantee of the independence of the whole parliament and its members in the performance of their duties. we therefore support the rapporteur's vote not to waive ana gomes' immunity.
- the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 501 200 for ireland to support the 171 workers made redundant at andersen irland limited.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. ireland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 171 workers in the jewellery manufacturing company andersen ireland limited, operating in nace rev. 2 division 32, which are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as imports, 95% of which are from asia, have increased by four times the eu production over four years (2008 to 2012). in this mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece, eur 1,5 million was granted. i voted in favour.
in writing. - following the redundancies of 171 workers at andersen ireland, the irish authorities submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. given that these redundancies have a serious impact on regional employment and the local and regional economy and that unemployment levels in this rural region are already more than twice the national average, the irish authorities have included in the application the request for funding for up to 138 unemployed young people under 25 years of age who are not in education or training, which will bring the number of targeted beneficiaries to 276. the application was submitted under the criterion that at least 500 employees were made redundant or self-employed persons ceased their activity. however, due to the exceptional circumstances presented, a derogation from the 500-redundancy threshold is justified in order to accept the application. it is regrettable that governments and the eu insist on policies that lead to economic degradation, business closures and mass layoffs. more than the recurrent mobilisation of this fund, what is required is an end to the neoliberal policies which are at the root of these problems and the defence of the preservation of jobs.
in writing. - the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to ireland, which submitted an application egf/2014/007 ie/andersen ireland in order to obtain a financial contribution from the egf, following 171 redundancies in the company andersen ireland limited, operating in the nace rev. 2 division 32 (manufacture of jewellery, ornamental articles and similar articles) during the reference period from 21 october 2013 to 21 february 2014.
in writing. - ireland has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 171 redundancies in andersen ireland limited, which operated in the nace revision 2 division 32 (manufacture of jewellery, goldsmithing, jewellery and similar articles) during the period from 21 october 2013 to 21 february 2014. under that application, ireland also proposes to provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 138 young people under 25 years of age who are not in employment, education or training. the commission considers that the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as the redundancies in question have a serious impact on the economy of this region, where the unemployment rate (39,3%) was already more than double the national average (19%), and as the redundancies are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as imports in this sector, 95% of which come from asia, have become four times the eu production. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for ireland.
in writing. - financial assistance to workers affected by redundancies as a result of globalisation should be provided on an individual basis and aimed at their reintegration into the labour market. on this basis, ireland submitted an application to the egf in respect of redundancies in 171 workers at andersen ireland limited, which was active in the economic sector of manufacturing of jewellery, goldsmith's items, jewellery and similar articles. although we are dealing with less than 500 redundancies in a four-month reference period, i believe that the exceptional circumstances surrounding the admissibility of the application deserve to be taken into account, given the serious impact on employment and the local, regional and national economy in ireland. i therefore voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 501 200 for ireland.
in writing. - the irish authorities have submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 171 workers by andersen ireland. these redundancies have a serious impact on regional employment and the local and regional economy, and unemployment levels in this rural region are already more than double the national average. the application was submitted under the criterion that at least 500 employees were made redundant or self-employed persons ceased their activity. however, due to the exceptional circumstances presented, a derogation from the 500-redundancy threshold is justified in order to accept the application. it is absolutely regrettable that governments and the eu insist on policies that lead to economic degradation, the closure of businesses and mass layoffs, as has been the case whenever this fund is requested. what is required is an end to the policies of liberalization and profit maximization which are at the root of these problems and the defence of the preservation of jobs.
- the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 7 290 900 for greece to support workers made redundant by sprider stores s.a.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. between 2014 and 2020, the annual ceiling of the fund is eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. greece submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies caused by the global financial and economic crisis, in 761 workers at sprider stores s.a., a company active in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 47 division. in this mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece, eur 7.29 was granted. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the greek authorities have submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the company sprider stores sa following the dismissal of 761 workers under the economic crisis criterion. this company is active in the retail trade. the number of workers made redundant includes self-employed workers whose activity has ceased in the supplying undertakings or in the downstream producing undertakings of the supplying undertaking. two circumstances are identified as giving rise to the redundancies: 1) reduction of household disposable income due to the increase in the tax burden, the decline in wages (both in the private sector and in the public service) and the increase in unemployment which resulted in a huge fall in purchasing power; 2) drastic reduction of loans to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of greek banks, linked to the economic crisis. in the face of this situation, we reaffirm that the solution is not to give a subsidy in exchange for the loss of jobs, which, moreover, has no price, but to reverse the neoliberal policies that have been responsible for these situations, carried out by the governments of the member states and encouraged by the eu, which the report itself describes as causing this social problem.
in the case of the european union, the european union is a space of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to greece, which submitted the application egf/2014/009, el/sprider stores on 6 june 2014, following the redundancies of 761 workers in sprider stores s.a., an enterprise operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles).
in writing. - greece has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 761 workers at sprider stores s.a., which were engaged in nace rev. 2 division 37 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) during the period from 17 november 2013 to 17 march 2014. under the terms of that application, greece also proposes to provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 550 young people under 30 years of age who are not in employment, education or training. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as the redundancies in question are linked to the economic and financial crisis, which, as is well known, has led to a huge fall in purchasing power and consumption, a drastic reduction in lending to businesses and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of banks, as well as a significant increase in the unemployment rate and a sharp decrease in greek gdp. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for greece.
in writing. - in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to effectively implement the union's instruments to support workers affected by unemployment, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund, and thus to (re) train them for (re) integration into the labour market. i voted in favour of this report, as it will allow the mobilisation of eur 7 290 900 for greece, with the aim of supporting not only the workers made redundant by sprider stores s.a., but also providing personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 550 young people under the age of 30 who are currently not working, not studying or even in training.
in writing. - following the dismissal of 761 workers at sprider stores s.a., the greek authorities submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. the company is active in the retail trade sector, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles. the number of workers made redundant includes self-employed workers whose activity has ceased in the supplying undertakings or in the downstream producing undertakings of the supplying undertaking. two reasons gave rise to the redundancies: 1) reduction of household disposable income and the increase in unemployment which resulted in a huge fall in purchasing power; 2) reduction of credit to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of greek banks, linked to the economic crisis. in the face of this situation, we reaffirm that the solution is not to give a subsidy in exchange for the loss of jobs, which, moreover, has no price, but to reverse the neoliberal policies that have been responsible for these situations, carried out by the governments of the member states and encouraged by the eu, which the report itself describes as causing this social problem.
in the light of the recent developments in the region, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: on 2 july 2014, the republic of moldova ratified the association agreement with the eu, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), which constitutes one of the most important mutual benefits of the agreement. i support the conclusion of this agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova, as i believe that stronger political and economic ties will mean greater stability and prosperity for the entire european continent and that this type of cooperation is based on common values in terms of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
in the light of the recent developments in the republic of moldova, the commission considers that the situation in the country is worsening. this work is still in its infancy and requires the full commitment of the moldovan government and further study. the association agreement and the related cfta are important contributions to making moldova more independent and overcoming trade restrictions imposed by russia on certain products. the claa will further enhance moldova's access to the eu market, creating new development and growth opportunities, directly benefiting moldovan businesses and citizens.
in writing. - in terms of economic significance, this agreement may not be as important as other free trade agreements, but its geopolitical importance is clearly assumed in this report, particularly its relation to the current crisis in ukraine and the attempt at all costs to move forward in a convergent manner with nato in the encirclement of russia. the establishment of such agreements involves the adaptation and implementation of measures with implications for third countries with which moldova has trade relations, using this country as a pawn to try to impose changes in the legislation of the russian federation that correspond to the interests of the major economic groups and eu powers, in particular in the energy and other natural resources sector. the economic sovereignty of moldova - one of the poorest countries in europe - the rights and aspirations of the moldovans to a better life are being sacrificed to the greed of the interests of big capital in privatizations and a greater domestication of its legislation to facilitate foreign investment, the exploitation of its resources and above all to exploit workers even more.
in writing. - in recent years, thanks to the political determination of its government, the republic of moldova has made significant progress in reforms and in strengthening relations with the eu. i welcome the signing of the association agreement, as i see it as a strong sign of recognition of the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan people and authorities and of the substantial progress made recently. i consider the association agreement to be a significant step forward in eu-republic of moldova relations and a commitment to the path of political association and economic integration. the member states should move swiftly towards ratification of the association agreement.
in writing. - in recent years, the republic of moldova has made significant progress in reforms and in strengthening relations with the eu. in this process, the conclusion of the eu-moldova association agreement and the establishment of the comprehensive and deep free trade area (cfta) in this context are of key importance, both for the mutual benefits they bring to the parties and as a strong sign of recognition of the reform efforts made in the most recent period by the moldovan authorities, including in the judiciary and the security forces and services, in the restructuring of the anti-corruption framework and in the implementation of the human rights action plan. the agreement now has been concluded and it is now important to ensure its full implementation and to continue the modernisation efforts in order to consolidate the democratic institutions, the rule of law and the system for protecting human rights and to create the conditions for the country's european aspirations to be achieved. in this context, concern should also be expressed about russia's actions, in particular the embargo on moldovan products, which have contributed to destabilising the region and undermining the eu's eastern neighbours' association process.
in writing. - the non-legislative report, adopted at the same time as the consent procedure for the agreement with moldova, includes a number of considerations and recommendations to our eastern european partner (and on the agreement itself) which i have considered and which reflect well the strengthening of the european parliament's role in the scrutiny of the union's conclusion of international agreements, as well as in the framework of our european neighbourhood policy. the report recalls that the establishment of a comprehensive and deep free trade area between the european union and moldova (which includes transnistria as an integral part of the republic) implies the fulfilment of legislative commitments to harmonise with the acquis communautaire and the implementation of structural economic reforms, which cannot be achieved without the technical assistance and institutional support of the european union. respect for democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law are therefore sine qua non conditions for this agreement, which should include, in particular, legislative reforms and action by the state as a whole on corruption, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of the press.
in writing. - the geopolitical importance of this agreement is clearly assumed in this report, particularly its relation to the current crisis in ukraine and the attempt to, at all costs, move forward in a convergent manner with nato in the siege of russia. the establishment of such agreements has implications for third countries with which moldova has trade relations, using this country as a trojan horse to try to impose changes in the legislation of the russian federation, in a manoeuvre in the service of the eu and its capital. the economic sovereignty of moldova - one of the poorest countries in europe - the rights and aspirations of the moldovans to a better life are being sacrificed to the greed of the interests of big capital in privatizations and a greater domestication of its legislation to facilitate foreign investment, the exploitation of its resources and above all to exploit workers even more.
in writing. - the association agreement between the european union and moldova includes a trade pillar which will lead to the creation of a comprehensive and deep free trade area with the european union. i support this recommendation for the establishment of the agreement which will contribute to the creation of new opportunities for trade and economic growth, bringing benefits to moldovan companies and directly to citizens, and to the eu's benefit from greater trade flows and better investment conditions in moldova. the zclaa includes a number of provisions aimed at reforming moldova's trade and related policies, on the basis of and in line with the eu acquis, which will contribute to modernising the economy and consolidating eu investment in the country and fostering a more favourable and predictable political environment.
in writing. - by approving the conclusion of this agreement, the majority of the european parliament supports the capitulation of moldova and its sovereignty to the interests of the major economic groups of the eu powers, severely limiting or even preventing the taking of measures to defend its national production and exposing workers there and here to pressure to further reduce wages and rights. the measures envisaged, in particular the creation of the comprehensive and deep free trade area - the essence of this association agreement - will lead to the abolition of customs and tariff barriers, the opening of public procurement to private and non-moldovan companies, and the prevention of the establishment of limits on the establishment of foreign companies in moldova. the agreement will put workers, smes, small and medium-sized farmers - most moldovans - in one of the poorest countries in europe in a process of fierce competition to force them to sell the cheapest product of their labour and their labour force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new system of customs duties. in this sense, small and mediumsized enterprises, small farmers and workers will be subjected to a reduction in wages and rights. this agreement is essentially an extension of the austerity policies we all know all too well to the moldovan people. we cannot impose this reality that we contest on another country. for these reasons i voted against this agreement.
in writing. - in recent years, thanks to the political determination of its government, the republic of moldova has made significant progress in reforms and in strengthening relations with the eu. i welcome the signing of the association agreement, as i see it as a strong sign of recognition of the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan people and authorities and of the substantial progress made recently. i consider the association agreement to be a significant step forward in eu-republic of moldova relations and a commitment to the path of political association and economic integration. the member states should move swiftly towards ratification of the association agreement. i therefore vote in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement, considering that it brings important mutual benefits and represents a significant step forward in relations between the two parties. in this context, the trade pillar of the agreement should be highlighted, which will lead to the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) between the eu and the republic of moldova, which will allow, on the one hand, to enhance the access of the republic of moldova to the eu market, thereby creating new opportunities for development and economic growth and directly benefiting moldovan businesses and citizens, and, on the other hand, to facilitate eu trade and improve the conditions for eu investment in the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft decision on moldova, as i consider it important to deepen trade, economic and political relations with this country in our eastern european neighbourhood. among the advantages of the agreement, it is worth highlighting the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area, which will not only bring new opportunities for trade and economic growth to moldovan companies, but also benefits to the eu in terms of the fluidity of trade flows and investment conditions in that country. on the subject of moldova's relations with russia, i would like to express my concern about the way the latter has been manipulating its trade with moldova, in particular through trade embargoes on moldovan products and import bans. it is therefore essential and urgent to call on russia to respect the autonomy and territorial integrity of moldova (i.e. transnistria, as an integral part of the republic of moldova, should be covered by the scope and effects of this agreement) and its pro-european option, which will be scrutinized by the moldovan population in the legislative elections on 30 november, which will be the subject of an election observation mission by this parliament.
in writing. - this agreement represents the capitulation of moldova and its sovereignty to the interests of the major economic groups of the major eu powers, greatly limiting or preventing the taking of measures in defense of its national production and exposing workers to pressure to further lower wages and rights. as mentioned above, the essence of the association agreement will lead to the abolition of customs and tariff barriers, the opening of public procurement to private and non-moldovan companies and the prevention of the setting of limits on the establishment of foreign companies in moldova. this agreement thus respects the rights of workers, smes and small and mediumsized farmers - most of them moldovans - in one of the poorest countries in all of europe. they will be subjected to unfair competition in order to force them to sell the cheapest product of their labour or their labour. tax revenues will fall, social spending will increase, deficits and debts will increase, a common story that we know in portugal too.
in writing. - at a time when there are increasing calls within the european union for the union to disintegrate, it is important to defend and emphasise the northern ireland peace process. this process has been an example of how collaboration between people with different wills and ideas can generate agreements that benefit all parties involved. the period of peace and the social, economic and political progress that has been achieved in the region since the belfast agreement cannot be disregarded and must be seen as a motivation for this process to continue without hesitation. i would like to make an appeal with this vote so that the parties involved do not succumb to the temptation to back down and that with the support of the european union and all the international actors who have always cooperated with the peace process, the impasse which has recently occurred can be overcome.
the european union was conceived by its founding fathers as a project to unite the unfortunate countries, to bring peace to a continent recovering from war, but with respect for the diversity of its members. the reality in northern ireland is complex and multifaceted. the road to this point has been difficult, but it has allowed us to reach a balance through the peace process involving all the political actors, the european union and the international community. i firmly believe this is the way. all parties must, for the benefit of the people they represent, call for compromise, strive for economic development, combat violence and all forms of inequality. in short, to bring the peace process to a successful conclusion.
in the case of the northern ireland peace process, it has always been seen as a powerful and positive example of conflict resolution because it is based on partnerships and on the principles of equal treatment. however, it is a process that requires continuous effort and any disruption can cause the process to stagnate or backslide, as appears to be happening in this case. it is therefore important that the european union further encourages reconciliation and improved relations between the irish communities, and the european regional development fund of the european union, which has provided the peace programme with eur 150 million, is a crucial instrument for the agreements to be implemented on the ground, benefiting both northern ireland and the border region of ireland.
in writing. - the peace agreements have played a decisive role in bringing an end to the fighting and have opened a path of hope to reconciliation, progress and social justice. the peace process must continue to be a cause worthy of all our support. as this resolution points out, the lack of progress in the process, together with the deterioration of the economic and social situation, is today fuelling the deepening of sectarian divisions and constituting a serious threat to peace. we support this resolution so that the deadlock reached by the parties can be overcome and that effective steps can be taken once and for all to combat unemployment, to stop cuts in wages and pensions and so that workers and the people can see their incomes and social rights increased, so that steps can be taken to combat growing poverty and social exclusion. neither will real peace, a just peace, nor sectarianism between catholics and protestants be defeated as long as these problems persist.
in the case of the northern ireland peace process, the current impasse is not beneficial to any of the parties involved, let alone to its citizens. the recent initiative to call for talks between all parties is important to overcome the current impasse, and agreement on outstanding issues is necessary to undermine the functioning and stability of the democratic institutions in northern ireland. the parties involved should enter into these negotiations with a positive attitude in order to resolve all outstanding issues. that is what we all hope for, to bring this conflict, which has dragged on for too long, to a definitive end.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the northern ireland peace process, because i share the concerns expressed about the impasse in which it finds itself and consider it essential that all parties engage in negotiations and work constructively to ensure a lasting settlement of the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements.
in writing. - it was with great pleasure and with renewed hope that i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which has the broad support of the european parliament and the support of six political groups, in support of the northern ireland peace process. i think it is clear and very welcome that parliament is united in the urgent need to further promote reconciliation and improve relations between the communities in northern ireland and the need to promote economic and social development to consolidate the peace process, as indeed the text of the proposal states. i would also like to highlight the peace efforts of the european commission's northern ireland task force, which i hope will continue to play an important role in supporting this process, as well as the support of the european union's european regional development fund and in particular the €150 million allocated to the programme in support of peace and reconciliation in northern ireland and the border region of ireland (peace iv).
in writing. - we support the peace process in ireland with a view to the full independence of the whole island, putting an end to a process of colonization which is totally anachronistic and at the same time in complete conflict with the basic norms of international law. we therefore continue to support the negotiating process in order to secure a peaceful solution for the irish people, who have suffered for too long under an english occupation which has already drained much of the resources of ulster and which continues to oppress an entire people on the pretext of religious rivalry which in no way justifies all the outrages committed in recent decades.
in the case of cyprus, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the situation in the mediterranean is not further complicated by the fact that the turkish authorities have not yet taken action against the turkish authorities. turkey's position vis-à-vis cyprus, which challenges the existence of cyprus as a sovereign state and the legitimacy to exploit the natural resources of its eez, is completely unfounded in the light of international law. it is important that turkey should be a factor of stability in the mediterranean and not, as is now the case, of instability. the eu is counting on turkey and its power of influence in the region to set an example in good neighbourly relations and respect for the sovereign states of the region, whether or not they are eu member states. the turkish authorities have been unable to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the agreement, and the turkish authorities have not been able to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the agreement.
in writing. - in strict compliance with international law, but also with the european legal order, the sovereignty of states must be inviolable. the republic of cyprus is a full member of the european union and its existence is internationally recognised, so turkey's provocative actions are totally unacceptable and should be repealed immediately. but we must not let ourselves be distracted from the main point: a peaceful, permanent and comprehensive settlement for the island of cyprus.
- the actions taken by turkey in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, which amount to an invasion of the cypriot eez, are an unspeakable provocation and deserve the strongest condemnation. we once again express our full solidarity with the cypriot people, who have been living under turkish occupation since 1973, when turkey invaded the northern part of the island, killing thousands of people. a crime that remains unpunished to this day. this occupation has never been recognized by any state except turkey itself. and we are once again witnessing the european union's double standards. an eu that is quick and ready when it comes to following nato and us directives (with economic and political sanctions, among other measures), but that is nothing more than pious declarations when it comes to the sovereignty of one of its member states. where are the sanctions now? where are those who always cry out for them so readily? what has the eu actually done to promote the continuation of the negotiations with a view to reunification? what hypocrisy.
in the light of the recent events in cyprus, the commission has decided to extend the period of suspension of the application of the protocol on the free movement of persons to the period from 1 january 1997 to 31 december 1999. in this case, turkey is calling into question the work of a european company and is in flagrant breach of international law. it is therefore essential that turkey complies with international law and respects and implements the declaration of the european community and its member states. any discovery of hydrocarbon reserves, which is the reason for the current tension, should benefit the whole region, contributing to a better quality of life for the populations covered by the whole area.
in writing. - turkey should endeavour to maintain good neighbourly relations and to resolve its disputes peacefully in accordance with the charter of the united nations. turkey must respect the sovereignty of the member states over their territorial waters. we cannot forget that the sovereign rights of the eu member states include the right to conclude bilateral agreements and to explore and exploit their natural resources. what is happening in the eez of cyprus is very serious and must be condemned at all levels.
in writing. - in october 2014, turkey dispatched vessels to conduct seismic surveys in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the republic of cyprus from 20 october to 30 december 2014. considering that the republic of cyprus has the full sovereign right to exploit the natural resources of its eez and that the actions of turkey have no legal basis and constitute a flagrant violation of international law and in particular of the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos), i voted in favour of this resolution, thus joining the call to the turkish authorities to put a stop to the illegal activities in the eez of the republic of cyprus and to refrain from any measures and/or threats that undermine its sovereignty over its territorial waters.
in writing. - i would like to begin by expressing once again, on behalf of my party, our solidarity with the cypriot people who have been living under turkish occupation since 1973, when turkey invaded the northern part of the island, killing thousands of people. this crime continues to this day with impunity. this occupation has never been recognized by any state except turkey itself. this invasion of the eez of cyprus is an unspeakable provocation which must be condemned in the strongest terms. we note once again the dual criteria of the au. an eu that is quick and ready when it comes to following nato and us directives, but is nothing but pious declarations when it comes to the sovereignty of one of its member states. i hope, however, that the eu will be able to go further this time by imposing sanctions on turkey and thus contribute to the continuation of the ongoing negotiations for reunification.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of the conflict in south sudan. the international community, and the european union in particular, has been denouncing this situation at various levels. moreover, it has provided financial and logistical support, including to civil society, strongly condemned the continued violation of fundamental rights, encouraged greater involvement of the international community, supported a lasting solution and the establishment of a democratic regime that protects its population. there is still a long way to go and the european union must be an active voice in this process. but it is urgent to recognize, as this resolution does, that humanitarian aid is not enough to solve a political problem.
in writing. the situation in south sudan, the world's youngest and most fragile state, is critical. more than 10,000 people have died during the months of fighting and brutal acts of cruelty and ethnic violence have been perpetrated. the humanitarian crisis is visible in the large-scale exodus of the population, and there is concern that it is spreading to a wider area already prone to instability. the increase in extreme poverty, climate change, the unequal distribution of wealth and the exploitation of resources only further aggravate the situation. the country has the worst kind of humanitarian crisis, exacerbated by a wave of sexual violence and alleged recruitment of child soldiers, with over 3.5 million people receiving humanitarian assistance and 2.5 million remaining in a situation of crisis or security emergency. the eu has been a major contributor to the response to this humanitarian crisis with over 38% of all international contributions, including increasing aid to over €130 million in 2014. it is essential that humanitarian aid continues to be provided and that the most vulnerable people are fed and that all parties to the conflict recognise and respect humanitarian work on the ground.
in the case of south sudan, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the situation is not so bad. after several months of civil war, thousands of people have been killed and more than a million have become refugees and displaced persons. there is a real threat of famine and the united nations has declared the situation in south sudan a serious humanitarian crisis. the country became independent in 2011, breaking away from sudan after two decades of conflict, following a referendum where only the people of south sudan were heard. the united states and its allies wasted no time in supporting the separatist movement and sponsored the independence of the oil-rich country of 11 million people. the armed conflict, which has rapidly turned into a bloody civil war with dramatic repercussions, threatens the country's sovereignty over its resources and its ability to produce food to feed its people. but these people need more than humanitarian aid. this is not an isolated case. imperialism, in its strategy of dominating the peoples and plundering their wealth, allies itself with corrupt sectors of the indigenous bourgeoisie, creates ethnic and religious differences, divides states, foments wars and, if necessary, intervenes militarily. and then, hypocritically, they demand peace.
in the case of south sudan, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the country is able to meet its commitments under the un convention on the rights of the child. however, politics is not the only obstacle to south sudan's development. good governance, the fight against corruption, the functioning of administrations and the creation of infrastructure are prerequisites for sustainable economic development. we must firmly condemn the latest outbreak of violence in south sudan, the parties involved must lay down their arms and immediately put an end to the acts of violence that cause the loss of life, injury and damage to the civilian population and have led to the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people since the beginning of the crisis in december 2013. only with the continued support of the eu and other developed states will it be possible to free this young country from the serious problems it is facing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out the very serious humanitarian situation in south sudan, declared by the un as a level 3 emergency, the worst kind of humanitarian crisis, and i join in condemning the renewed violence and the repeated violations of the ceasefire agreement signed on 23 january 2014, and in calling for the allegations of atrocities against the population to be duly investigated and those responsible to be punished, and for the warring parties to participate constructively, through dialogue and cooperation, in the addis ababa peace talks, with a view to the full implementation of the ceasefire agreement and the swift reopening of talks to establish a transitional government of national unity, which can pave the way for a lasting and sustainable solution to the current conflict.
in the light of the recent events in south sudan, the commission has decided to extend the period of suspension of the operation of the un peacekeeping force to the end of the year. despite the 2011 referendum, in which almost the entire population - more than 98% - showed that they wanted south sudan's independence, the peace and independence process has failed to achieve significant results, nor has it allowed the formation of a transitional government of national unity, and there is instead a worsening of the scenario of humanitarian tragedy, declared by the un as a humanitarian crisis of the highest level. the systematic violation of ceasefire agreements and the heinous crimes committed against the population, which undermine the most basic basic human rights, cannot and must not go unpunished and call for a firm action by the eu, which should mediate the peace process by promoting a strong participation of civil society, allowing for the peaceful settlement of disputes between the warring parties and an uncompromising defence of the interests of the population, which should also include unrestricted access to external humanitarian aid. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in spite of its considerable natural resources and oil, south sudan is one of the poorest countries in the world. after several months of civil war, thousands of people have been killed and more than a million have been displaced. there is a real threat of famine and the united nations has declared the situation in south sudan a grave humanitarian crisis. after a referendum in which only the people of south sudan were heard, the country became independent in july 2011, after two decades of conflict. the united states and its allies wasted no time in supporting the separatist movement and sponsored the independence of the oil-rich country of 11 million people. the case of south sudan is not unique to africa today. the imperialists, in their strategy of dominating the peoples and plundering their wealth, are allying themselves with corrupt sectors of the indigenous bourgeoisie, creating ethnic and religious divisions, dividing states, fomenting wars and, if necessary, intervening militarily. and then, hypocritically, they demand peace.
it is essential that the debate on the post-2015 development agenda leads to clear priorities for sustainable development. and the report we are discussing today, with all the contributions it has welcomed, makes a relevant contribution to this debate and takes on what should be our ambition: to put the european union, which is already the largest donor of development aid, at the head of this process, in defence of an ambitious, sustainable and universal agenda, and an agenda that spares no effort in combating poverty and inequalities. this implies an awareness of the seriousness of the problems and the importance of the challenges, but it also implies learning from the experience of cooperation policies, from their remarkable progress and their disappointing failures. and experience shows that we will not achieve the development goals if the appropriate means of financing are not secured and if the overwhelming majority of countries continue to fail in their commitments. as the european parliament's rapporteur on financing for development, i believe that the future agenda is only feasible if it is accompanied by an equally ambitious and innovative approach. the crisis cannot continue to be used as an excuse, but it is also true that the context of budgetary constraints calls for increased rigour in the control of financial aid and innovative financing instruments and greater involvement of the private sector. we have a lot of work ahead of us here in the european parliament, listening to all the partners and civil society, before addis ababa and new york. the report i am presenting here will be a complement to the debate we are having here today and i am counting on everyone's contribution so that this will be an exercise in the policy coherence that is so sorely lacking in the development agenda.
we can boast of the small steps taken in this or that area in the quality of life of the people of our planet, but while we admit progress in some areas, we find a profound deterioration in the quality of life of people in many places on the planet and in particular here in europe, where hunger and poverty are gaining ground every day. no matter how many specific advances are announced, nothing can erase the paradox that we have today this enormous scientific and technological potential, which if well used would be perfectly sufficient to feed and clothe all of humanity. this report being accurate in its reporting, it fails to diagnose and prescribe nothing substantial for the patient's cure. in fact, nothing is said about the heavy responsibilities of the neoliberal policies implemented throughout the world since the 1980s. nothing is said about the responsibilities of the large multinational companies or the large military-industrial complex. we agree with all these objectives, but we think that it is not possible to devise a clear strategy for their achievement without changing our model of society, where the interests of big business take precedence over the well-being of the people and where political power takes precedence over economic power.
mr president, commissioner, cohesion policy, which consists of the european social fund, the erdf and the cohesion fund, contributes to inclusive growth, sustainable growth and smart growth, helps us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in terms of employment, research and innovation, helps us to strengthen our competitiveness, improve our skills, help us to combat climate change and also help us to combat poverty. cohesion policy means not only economic, territorial and social cohesion but also competitiveness, job creation and wealth creation. it is therefore unacceptable that it could be seen as an adjustment policy. the fact is that the european union budget is facing a serious problem with payments, and it is unacceptable that cohesion policy - the policy which best promotes internal solidarity, which contributes to economic growth, territorial and social cohesion - should be penalized. the council failed to pay eur 23,4 billion in 2013. this year we're in danger of having a higher amount, and no one notices. how can someone who is advocating growth, jobs, how can someone who has a policy and an instrument for growth not pay what he owes, not pay what he has authorised? this is very easy to solve: the commitments made to the citizens of the european union are being fulfilled.
mr president, commissioner, this is not the first time that we have discussed export controls on dual-use goods. today we are talking about the technologies and software used for monitoring communications, but we have already mentioned other very serious cases of the military use of civilian products and technologies. and the problem cannot be solved either by the existing regulation or by the amendments which have been requested here today. a broader and more consistent approach is needed. we recall, for example, the joint research projects financed by the research framework programme, which involve the israeli aerospace industry, the manufacturer of the drones used in the attack on the gaza strip and the mass murders that have been perpetrated there. here too, a rigorous assessment of the dual civil/military use of the results of these projects is required and the access of certain countries and certain companies to the financing of these projects must be restricted accordingly.
madam president, commissioner, you could have come here to tell us how you intend to make the european commission's impact assessments more credible, more rigorous, more substantiated - assessments which, for the most part, are no more than a mere formality that never calls into question the interests of the lobbies that determine the european commission's legislative proposals. instead, it has chosen to further discredit this instrument in the name of making life easier for small and mediumsized enterprises. do you want to make life easier for smes? it puts an end to the policies of impoverishment that crush the internal market on which smes, for the most part, depend, as happened in portugal with the intervention of the troika. it ends the policies of favouring the big economic groups. recognize that, contrary to what they proclaimed, the liberalizations and privatizations of strategic sectors of the economy have subjected smes to the predation of monopolies and oligopolies, energy, telecommunications, banking, insurance and others... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, (beginning of speech inaudible as microphone switched off) the commission coming from this house and welcome to the very promising italian presidency. one of the central targets of the europe 2020 strategy is to raise the employment rate to 75%. we are very far from this and we know that, in order to reach this target, we have to create more than 16 million jobs by 2020. so far this is not working. we need to recognise this. job destruction is now more important than job creation, and we need to reverse this trend. this is a huge task, which i believe is not only for labour market policies but for a comprehensive and balanced strategy in which economic, social and fiscal policies are combined. i believe that in order to reverse this trend we need to raise european demand by proper economic coordination. we need to have this big push for investment in forward-looking areas and we need to complete economic and monetary union in order to reduce the economic and social divergences which are there. we need to make sure that all member states have the necessary conditions to implement the europe 2020 strategy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe 2020 strategy can only lead europe to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth if it starts to give greater importance to social and employment objectives. we note, however, that of the five ambitious objectives for 2020, education and social inclusion have received the least attention so far from the union institutions and the member states, and that they are therefore unlikely to be achieved by 2020. the truth is that the strategy for overcoming the crisis has so far been based on fiscal consolidation criteria, leaving behind measures aimed at stimulating economic growth. in this battle, social cohesion and the fight against unemployment are the main victims. inequality between member states is clearly visible and is constantly increasing. europe cannot continue to operate at two speeds. we must create more jobs, we must end job insecurity, we must create more decent jobs, the internal market must be a reality for the future of europe. we can't wait any longer. it is imperative that we implement now the programme for jobs, growth and investment which mr juncker will present to this house tomorrow. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must do more by investing heavily in physical and human capital, in innovation and technological development, and this necessarily means more effective support from the union to the member states. there is a younger generation who feels that they have no future in europe. they finish their schooling to join the ranks of the unemployed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. true, but this alone is not enough. we must equip the business fabric of the member states with effective support mechanisms and instruments. we must improve access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises, since they are the ones who create jobs and sustain the economy, and we must also focus more on the factors of competitiveness in order to promote genuine and sustainable reindustrialisation. i believe that the only way forward is precisely through stronger, smarter, more supportive and more inclusive investment. the europeans cannot stand it any longer and they cannot wait any longer.
madam president, we cannot really be too surprised that the targets set in strategy 2020 have not been met. let us see, a strategy which places flexibility in labour relations, i.e. precariousness and insecurity for workers as the guiding matrix throughout the document, that strategy can never combat unemployment. we all know, or at least those of us who have been through this, the thousands and millions of young people in europe, know that every contract with a precarious link has as its more or less immediate horizon a situation of unemployment. recent studies by the european commission confirm that parttime work and temporary contracts have increased and are a large part of the so-called new jobs. but let us be honest, is that not the real purpose of the european union in order to satisfy economic monopolies? if it is not, then they must explain why it was precisely the recommendations to the countries in the framework of the european semester and the troika memoranda, as the european commission itself confirms, that have forced changes to the collective bargaining systems in at least 12 countries in recent years. yes, the number of signed collective agreements protecting workers has fallen dramatically in recent years because governments and the european commission and the european union have imposed it. the struggles of the workers, the strikes are multiplying in all countries every day and it is this struggle that will demonstrate who has the real strength.
written. with this motion for a resolution, the european parliament is making it very clear to the european commission and the council that european policies must be people-centred. the financial and economic priorities must be linked to social priorities, which in itself justifies the relevance of this resolution. i welcome the fact that a standard is being introduced which takes account of the diversity of opportunities throughout europe, integrating the plurality of european realities. i refer to the consideration of the specificity of the outermost regions, namely the consideration that they face increased inequalities in access to employment and training opportunities, and that the ors require enhanced specific mechanisms for the implementation of investment programmes in order to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020 and to promote their potential for economic and social development.
the eu 2020 strategy has ambitious social objectives. however, its implementation has not been systematic. europe in name has subjugated the real europe. financial indicators, not people, have been the benchmark for policy. the time for the mid-term evaluation of the strategy is approaching. in many countries, key indicators such as employment or poverty have regressed rather than progressed. inequalities are increasing rather than decreasing. an ambitious review of the strategy is therefore necessary. jean-claude juncker has committed himself to giving a new impetus to the union's social policies. matteo renzi, president-in-office of the council, said that flexibility is the property of politics, while the crystallization of norms is the property of technocracy. the 25 million unemployed europeans require a reinvention of the european economic model. a reinvention focused on the dignity and happiness of europeans.
in writing. - on 12 june 2013, the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the luxembourg protocol on specific matters relating to railway rolling stock annexed to the convention on international guarantees for mobile equipment materials, adopted in luxembourg on 23 february 2007. on 20 november 2013, the council adopted a decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol and on 14 april 2014 it requested the approval of the european parliament. i supported this recommendation which creates a register of international guarantees for railway rolling stock and is complementary to the european vehicle identification number system adopted under the railway interoperability directive. it also promotes not only capital investment in the railway sector, but also benefits the creation of a genuine market for mobile railway equipment in europe and also encourages innovation and investment in the eu railways.
in writing. - the aim of the proposal is the eu's approval of the protocol on specific issues relating to railway rolling stock. the cape town convention establishes a uniform regime for the establishment and effects of an international guarantee. the convention applies when the debtor is located in a contracting state and strengthens the rights of creditors if the debtor fails to meet its obligations by creating an international creditor system that allows creditors to register collateral in relation to various categories of movable property and to benefit from rules on the priority and enforceability of collateral. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. we shall follow our group's position in voting against.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the adoption, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on specific questions relating to railway rolling stock. several provisions of the railway protocol allow the contracting parties to make declarations as to the applicability or scope of its provisions, or even as to how they will be applied. the railway protocol advocates the transition to greener and more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail, an objective that was highlighted in the 2011 transport white paper.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which gives its agreement to the protocol on specific questions relating to railway rolling stock annexed to the convention on international guarantees in respect of materials of mobile equipment, adopted in luxembourg on 23 february 2007, on the understanding that the said protocol, by establishing an international system of registration of guarantees, will contribute to promoting capital investment in the sector and enhancing the functioning of a genuine market for mobile railway equipment in europe, and is compatible with union law and the objectives set out in the 4th railway package and the 2011 white paper on transport.
in writing. this proposal concerns the approval by the european union of the luxembourg protocol on specific matters relating to railway rolling stock and is an annex to the convention on international guarantees for mobile equipment materials, adopted in luxembourg on 23 february 2007, hereinafter referred to as the railway protocol. it was signed by the eu, by prior council decision, on 10 december 2009. the rapporteur notes that the proposal under discussion is intrinsically linked to the implementation of the fourth railway package, which includes the objective of advancing innovation and investment in this sector at european level by using greener and more sustainable modes of transport. i therefore believe that the essential conditions for the european parliament to have given its favourable approval to this proposal, which i consider to be beneficial in creating a genuine and sustainable market for railway equipment in europe, are fulfilled.
in writing. - the cape town convention establishes a uniform system for the formation and effects of an international guarantee, namely: contract for the formation of the guarantee, contract for the reservation of the right of ownership and lease agreement for certain mobile equipment. it includes legal provisions that apply to all categories of mobile equipment and a set of specific protocols providing for specific rules for certain equipment. the proposal under discussion is closely linked to the implementation of the fourth railway package, which includes the objective of encouraging innovation and investment in the eu railway, with the general trend towards privatisation in the railway sector.
in writing. the objective of the proposal is the eu's approval of the protocol on specific questions relating to railway rolling stock annexed to the convention on international guarantees in respect of mobile equipment materials. the eu decided to sign the rail protocol and did so in december 2010. the convention applies when the debtor is located in a contracting state and strengthens the rights of creditors if the debtor fails to meet its obligations by creating an international creditor system which allows creditors to register collateral in relation to various categories of movable property and to benefit from rules on the priority and enforceability of collateral. according to the proposal, the objective of the rail protocol is to facilitate the financing of high value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee for creditors, whether they are credit sellers or institutions providing credit for such sales. as the proposal under discussion is closely linked to the implementation of the fourth railway package, with the general trend towards privatisation in the railway sector, we voted against it.
- the hague convention essentially gives the international dimension to the revised brussels i regulation as regards agreements on jurisdiction in commercial and civil matters. this is intended to increase legal certainty for both businesses and consumers. and these in particular find their position especially safeguarded, since insurance contracts are excluded. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the aim of the hague convention is to promote international trade and investment by strengthening judicial cooperation, which involves the introduction of uniform rules. the convention seeks to strike a balance between: (i) the need to ensure that parties are assured that only the courts they have chosen will hear the case and that the judgment given will be recognised and enforced abroad, and (ii) the need to enable states to implement certain aspects of their public policy, relating in particular to the protection of the weaker parties, protection against serious forms of injustice in certain situations and respect for certain criteria of exclusive competence of states. it thus creates a worldwide alternative resolution mechanism to the existing arbitration system. this report is a recommendation for the adoption of the convention. the european commission has declared that it has competence in respect of all matters governed by the convention. the member states are therefore bound by the eu's conclusion of the agreement, which gives rise to some reservations. we recognize, however, the essentially technical nature of this recommendation.
in writing. i have tabled my vote in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on the forum election agreements. the choice of court agreements are agreements in which two parties agree that any matter in dispute between them shall be decided by the courts of the designated state. i believe that the european union should participate in this convention, which the union signed in 2009. widespread accession to this convention would ensure greater legal certainty with regard to exclusive choice of court agreements, promoting trade between the participating states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which gives its consent to the adoption of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on agreements on the election of jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters, as it is of great relevance in the context of international trade, ensuring respect for private autonomy and the necessary legal certainty in cross-border transactions.
in writing. one of the objectives of the european union is to create a common legal area based on the principles of judicial cooperation and mutual recognition of judicial decisions. in that regard, the hague convention of 30 june 2005 established an international legal framework for exclusive choice of court agreements in civil and commercial matters, in which the parties stipulate that any matter in dispute between them is to be decided by the courts of the designated state. i therefore considered it important to vote in favour of this recommendation approving, on behalf of the european union, this convention, not only because of the valuable contribution it makes to the autonomy of the parties in international commercial transactions, giving them predictability and legal certainty, but also because of the guarantee given to the parties that their choice of judicial settlement will be respected and that the decision given by the chosen court will be capable of recognition and enforcement in international cases. the eu's approval of this convention will thus reduce legal uncertainty for european companies operating outside the union, while maintaining those that meet its objectives of extending its competence and legal harmonisation in international trade.
in writing. - the aim of the convention is to promote international trade and investment by strengthening judicial cooperation, including the introduction of uniform rules on jurisdiction, based on exclusive choice of court agreements, and on the recognition and enforcement of judgments given by courts chosen by the contracting parties. the council proposal states that the eu's approval of the convention will reduce legal uncertainty for european companies operating outside the eu by ensuring that the choice of court settlements included in their contracts is respected and that judgments given by the courts designated in those settlements will be eligible for recognition and enforcement by the other contracting parties to the convention. overall, the eu's approval of the convention will complement the achievement of the objectives underlying the eu rules on the extension of jurisdiction by creating a harmonised set of rules in the eu in relation to third countries that will become contracting parties to the convention. it is part of the creation of a common judicial area based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
the express objective of the convention is to promote international trade and investment by strengthening judicial cooperation through the introduction of uniform rules of jurisdiction based on exclusive choice of court agreements and on the recognition and enforcement of judgments given by courts chosen by the contracting parties. the council proposal states that the eu's approval of the convention will reduce legal uncertainty for european companies operating outside the eu by ensuring that the choice of court settlements included in their contracts are respected and that judgments given by the courts designated in those settlements will be eligible for recognition and enforcement by the other contracting parties to the convention. article 6 of the convention imposes some limits on article 5 by stating that the court of a contracting state other than the court chosen shall suspend or declare itself to be incompetent to hear a case to which an exclusive choice of court agreement applies. this report is a recommendation for the adoption of the hague convention of 30 june 2005. the convention was signed by the eu in 2009. the current step is the ratification process and we have not objected.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 426 800 for finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at stx finland oy.
in writing. - the egf was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant following major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. in 2014-2020, the annual ceiling of the fund shall be eur 150 million. measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training are offered to dismissed workers. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. in this egf mobilisation, the finnish authorities submitted on 27/05/2014 an application egf/2014/008 fi/stx rauma for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 577 workers in stx finland oy, an enterprise operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 30 manufacture of other transport equipment, on the grounds that the global maritime industry has undergone dramatic changes in recent years and that in this overall context the eu market share in the shipbuilding sector has decreased from 13% in 2007 to 5% in the first 3 quarters of 2013, while the equivalent share of the whole china, south korea and japan increased from 77% in 2007 to 86% in the same period. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i know . following the dismissal of 577 workers at stx finland oy, a manufacturer of transport equipment, the finnish authorities submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total of eur 1 426 800. the application is justified on the basis of the dramatic changes that the global maritime industry has undergone in recent years, affecting the company's market share in the shipbuilding sector, which fell from 13% (2007) to 5% (in the first 3 quarters of 2013), an expansion of the asian shipbuilding market, and the decline in orders resulting from the economic crisis led to a weakening of the sector. we understand the need to help immediately to improve the situation of these workers, in particular by mobilising the proposed amounts. however, as we have said on several occasions, the mobilisation of this fund cannot be used to make redundancy policies viable by promoting the worsening exploitation of cheap and unfair labour. in this case, the deregulation and liberalisation of the shipbuilding and ship repair sector worldwide, which the eu has been vigorously promoting, must be denounced as having inseparable consequences.
in writing. the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to finland, which submitted its application egf/2014/008 fi/stx rauma on 27 may 2014, following the redundancies of 577 workers in stx finland oy, which was active in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 30 manufacture of other transport equipment.
in writing. finland applied for a financial contribution from the egf, following 634 redundancies in stx finland oy, which operated in the nace rev. 2 division 30 (manufacture of other transport equipment), during the period from 7 october 2013 to 7 march 2014. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, as, on the one hand, the redundancies in question are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as the eu market share in the shipbuilding sector decreased from 13% in 2007 to 5% in the first three quarters of 2013 due to the expansion of the asian shipbuilding market and the decline in orders resulting from the economic and financial crisis, and, on the other hand, such redundancies will further aggravate the unemployment situation in the rauma region, with a high risk of prolonged unemployment given the low level of education and the advanced age of the workers affected. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for finland.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), with a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020, demonstrates the european union's concern for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade patterns due to globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis. the egf shall provide additional support to such workers in the form of individual counselling and support activities, translated into career guidance, support for job search, education, training and retraining or for setting up new businesses. finland submitted an application to the egf following the dismissal of 634 workers from stx finland oy in rauma. as the application was found to meet the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, i voted in favour of this report, sincerely hoping that the measures it supports will enable these workers to have a stable working life with a future.
in writing. stx finland oy, a manufacturer of transport equipment, is planning to lay off 577 workers and the finnish authorities have submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 1 426 800. the application is justified on the basis of the changes that the global maritime industry has undergone in recent years, affecting the eu market share in the shipbuilding sector, which has fallen from 13% (2007) to 5% (in the first 3 quarters of 2013) as a result of the economic crisis and global competition. we are aware of the need to help immediately to improve the situation of these workers, in particular by mobilising the proposed amounts. however, the mobilisation of this fund cannot be used to make redundancy policies viable, thus promoting the worsening of the exploitation of cheap and unfair labour.
in writing. following the dismissal of 577 workers at stx finland oy, a manufacturer of transport equipment, the finnish authorities submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of eur 1 426 800. the application is justified on the basis of the dramatic changes that the global maritime industry has undergone in recent years, affecting the eu market share in the shipbuilding sector which has decreased from 13% (2007) to 5% (in the first 3 quarters of 2013) and an expansion of the asian shipbuilding market. they also argue that the decline in orders resulting from the economic crisis has led to a weakening of the sector. we understand the need to help immediately to improve the situation of these workers, in particular by mobilising the proposed amounts. however, as we have said on several occasions, the mobilisation of this fund cannot be used to make redundancy policies viable, promoting the worsening of the exploitation of cheap and unlawful labour, and rendering the right-wing policies that are at its origin irresponsible.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 918 000 for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the gad simplified joint stock company.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant following major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. for the mobilisation of the egf, the french authorities submitted application egf/2014/005 fr/gad on 6 june 2014 following the redundancies of 744 workers at gad société anonyme simplifiée, an undertaking operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 10 (food industries). in this mobilisation of the egf for this region of brittany, eur 918 000 was granted to help workers re-enter the labour market. i voted in favour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. the french meat-slaughter and processing company gad has laid off 760 workers, citing price pressure from farmers who are having difficulties in dealing with the rise in the price of feed and from consumers whose incomes are falling and who are unable to buy their meat. it is unacceptable that the process which led to these dismissals did not involve any negotiation with the workers' representatives and the trade unions, and that it seeks to channel funding to private employment companies in the said process of integrating the workers affected, rather than applying this money to more direct aid to the injured. france has submitted an application for the european globalisation adjustment fund amounting to eur 918 000. although it may bring some temporary relief to the workers, this fund is nothing more than a crutch created by capital to make redundancies feasible, giving a handout to calm the conscience and public opinion. in practice, this fund does not replace the hundreds of thousands of jobs lost across the eu. a fundamental change in the policies that promote unemployment is urgently needed.
in writing. the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to france, which submitted its application egf/2014/005 fr/gad on 6 june 2014 following the redundancies of 744 workers at gad société anonyme simplifiée, an enterprise operating in the economic sector classified under nace revision 2 division 10 (food industries).
france has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 760 redundancies in the enterprise gad, operating in the nace revision 2 division 10 (food industries) in the regions of brittany and pays de la loire, during the period from 29 november 2013 to 28 march 2014. according to the commission, this application complies with the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as it is established, on the one hand, that the redundancies in question are linked to the economic and financial crisis, which has led to a reduction in pigmeat consumption linked to the decrease in consumer incomes and the increase in pig feed prices, and, on the other hand, that such redundancies have a significant adverse impact on the region of brittany, whose employment depends more on the agricultural sector than the french national average. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf in favour of france.
in writing. as in the finnish case discussed above (a8-0043/2014), i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) proposed by the french authorities following the dismissal of 760 workers at gad société anonyme simplifiée, which was the second application voted on at the strasbourg plenary session. in addition to what i said earlier in the french case, i would just like to stress that i consider the egf, together with the cohesion policies and the structural funds, to be a clear example of what intra-european solidarity should be.
in the case of the french meat-slaughter and meat-processing company gad, 760 workers were laid off, citing pressure on prices as the reason. it is also unacceptable that the process which led to these dismissals did not involve any negotiation with the workers' representatives and trade unions, and that it seeks to channel funding to private employment companies in the process of integrating the workers concerned, rather than applying this money to more direct aid to the injured. france has submitted an application for the european globalisation adjustment fund amounting to eur 918 000. although it may bring some temporary relief to the workers, this fund is nothing more than a crutch created by capital to make redundancies feasible, giving a handout to calm the conscience and public opinion. what is happening in practice is that this fund is not replacing the hundreds of thousands of jobs that have been lost across the eu, but that the policies that are killing them must be radically changed.
in writing. the economic and social crisis, a consequence of the exploitative nature of the capitalist system with the aim of maximum profit, affects thousands of families through the measures of decreasing incomes and increasing taxes, with a corresponding breakdown in consumption and the increase in the prices of consumer products. this is a snowball whose results affect workers every day, exacerbating the exploitation of cheap and unrighteous labour. the french meat-slaughter and processing company gad has laid off 760 workers, citing pressure on prices from farmers who are facing difficulties in the face of rising feed prices and from consumers whose incomes are falling and their inability to buy their meat is increasing. it is unacceptable that the process which led to these dismissals did not involve any negotiation with the workers' and trade union representatives. it also intends to channel funding to private employment companies in the process of integrating affected workers, rather than applying this money to more direct aid to the injured. france has submitted an application for the european globalisation adjustment fund for eur 918 000, which we voted in favour of, although we consider this a wrong solution.
in writing. - security is undoubtedly a key issue for the european union and its citizens. a concern that has been growing since 2001 due to the rise of organized crime and terrorism. in the name of security, however, we cannot put the fundamental rights of citizens at risk. the restriction of such access should be limited to what is essential and proportionate. these issues are all the more timely when it is still unclear what the impact of the latest judgment of the court of justice of the european union (c-293/12 and c-594/12) on the data retention directive will be. i cannot, however, be indifferent to the way in which this resolution was tabled, because it disrespects the practice of the european parliament and, in particular, the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i have therefore decided to abstain.
the relationship between the european union and canada on the processing of passenger identification records data is almost 10 years old. however, since 2009, the legal basis for data transfer from the european union to canada has ceased to exist, even though the border services of that country have unilaterally decided to ensure that the eu complies with the obligations resulting from that agreement. the council itself has already given its approval for the commission to begin negotiations for the conclusion of a new agreement. the european data protection supervisor has raised doubts about the necessity and proportionality of this agreement and the court of justice itself has declared the data retention directive invalid. with so many legal uncertainties, there is an urgent need for clarification on this matter from the competent authorities, in particular the court of justice.
in writing. - we supported the referral of the draft agreement with canada on the transfer and processing of passenger name record (pnr) data to the european court of justice. this is a means of delaying the adoption and entry into force of measures which we consider to be in breach of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens both in canada and in the eu member states. the pnr agreement is aimed at the transfer of information held by airlines on the itineraries and personal data of each passenger. the purpose, use and retention of this information remain highly uncertain. concerns are heightened by the now well-known espionage scandals. the negotiation and future implementation of this agreement also infringes the sovereign right of each country to decide whether or not to conclude it, and whether or not to block or terminate it. the dangers of this agreement are becoming increasingly apparent, especially in the context of the serious crisis we are experiencing, which has justified the destruction of social rights and gains, of democratic freedoms and rights.
i agree with the rapporteur's position that there are no objections to the commission delegated regulation on the provisional system of advances on contributions to cover the administrative expenditure of the single resolution board during the transitional period.
in writing. following the rejection of the motion to postpone this vote, i voted against this request for an opinion of the court of justice, considering that the effects of the delay in the entry into force of the agreement between the european union and canada on the transfer and processing of passenger name record (pnr) data may not have been duly considered from the point of view of the risks to international security, especially when taking into account that the preparation of an opinion may, in some cases, take around 30 months.
in writing. i consider legal certainty and security to be very important when concluding international agreements between the european union and other member states. as regards the agreement concluded in 2005 between the european union and canada on the processing of passenger name record data, which has since ceased to have effect due to the lack of a european legal basis for that purpose, there are legitimate legal doubts as to the choice of legal basis and the compatibility of the draft new agreement with the provisions of the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union on the right of individuals to the protection of personal data. i therefore consider it essential to clarify the question of the compatibility of this agreement with the treaties before the court of justice, which is why i voted in favour of submitting this opinion to that european court.
in writing. - we agree to refer the draft pnr agreement with canada to the court of justice. this is a procedure that allows the adoption and entry into force of measures that grossly violate the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens of both canada and the eu member states to be postponed. a pnr agreement is aimed at the transfer of information held by airlines on the itineraries and personal data of each passenger, the purpose, use and retention of which remain subject to considerable uncertainty. we must remember the scandals that denounce the use of mass spying. these agreements also constitute a withdrawal of sovereign power from each country, and the dangers of their use against the rights and interests of citizens are becoming increasingly evident.
in writing. we supported the referral of this draft agreement with canada to the court of justice, in particular with the aim of delaying the adoption and entry into force of measures which, as we have been denouncing, grossly violate the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens both in canada and in the eu member states. it is recalled that a pnr agreement concerns the transfer of information held by airlines on the itineraries and personal data of each passenger, the purpose, use and retention of which remain subject to considerable uncertainty, a situation which is exacerbated by the scandals exposing the use of mass spying. the negotiation and future implementation of such an agreement also means that each country is deprived of the sovereign power to decide whether or not it wants to conclude such an agreement, and to block or terminate it at will. the dangers of its use against the rights and interests of citizens are evident, especially in the context of a serious crisis of capitalism with no end in sight affecting the major world powers and in the face of measures to deal with it which impose the permanent destruction of social rights and achievements, of democratic freedoms and rights and their unquestioning acceptance by the peoples.
in writing. - following the latest un reports on the millennium development goals and the post-2015 agenda, we must now look at the new negotiating frameworks in a coherent way and in a way that is appropriate to the new global challenges that are emerging, such as poverty, human rights, armed conflict and terrorism, climate change and financial and economic crises. i believe, as i have said in the past, that the eu's response to these problems must be one voice, strong, clear and cohesive, while allocating funding to sustainable development based on good governance. however, a new approach needs to be taken that addresses the structural factors underlying poverty and inequality and that are linked to new highly complex challenges that will be on the agenda for the coming decades, from terrorism to gender inequalities, food security, unemployment, etc. i agree that this new development framework must be universal but fair, adapted to the realities and capacities of each state, guided by criteria of transparency and ambitious objectives for the years to come.
in writing. eradicating poverty by 2015 has always been taken as one of the main mdgs by all parties that signed the document to achieve this wish. the evaluations carried out in the meantime highlight the progress made in implementing the strategy, and underline the need for a strong link between poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development. however, poverty reduction is uneven and inequalities between and within countries, which have increased in both developed and developing countries, represent a major challenge. today, 1.5 billion people live in poverty with deficiencies in health, education and living conditions. it is therefore urgent and necessary to strengthen as a priority the eradication of poverty, the reduction of inequality, sustainable development, a human rights-based approach, conflict prevention, post-conflict recovery, consolidation and promotion of lasting peace; climate change mitigation, environmental protection and disaster risk reduction, combining food security, nutrition, sustainable agriculture, combating soil degradation, water and sanitation with health and education, and to take a central role for women in the post-2015 global development framework, as well as inclusive and sustainable growth and the creation of decent jobs. the member states themselves must respect the commitment to allocate at least 0,7% of gni to oda.
in the report, the commission has set out the main points of the report. however, while admitting these small steps in some areas, much remains to be done, and some backward steps are also noticeable in other areas. resolution is weak in diagnosing and even weaker in pointing out pathways. it is significant that some of the more critical references in the report to the negative impacts of some eu sectoral policies such as trade and agricultural policies were removed during the vote. even the mere consideration that the impact of these policies should be analysed was withdrawn. on the other hand, there is a long-standing attempt to impose on the developing countries a neoliberal model of the erasure or reduction of the role of the state and the strong predominance of the private sector. we have not voted in favour of the resolution, although we appreciate some of the positive aspects.
in writing. the millennium development goals (mdgs) have had a huge impact on people's lives. with less than a year to go before the mdgs are due to be achieved, extreme poverty in the world has been halved and efforts to combat malaria and tuberculosis have shown impressive results. however, much remains to be done in achieving the mdgs. i therefore believe that the post-2015 agenda needs a genuinely renewed global partnership, comprehensive in its coverage, recognising the contribution of all types of instruments and able to deal with technology and innovation as well as capacity development and trade. this is the direction we all have to work towards, to finally eradicate hunger and extreme poverty in the world.
in writing. following the establishment of the millennium development goals (mdgs) in 2000, visible progress has been made, notably in reducing extreme poverty, fighting malaria and tuberculosis and improving access to safe drinking water. despite the positive results achieved, key issues such as poverty, human rights violations, inequality, armed conflict and terrorism, climate change and environmental protection, food insecurity, migration, limited access to health and education services, unemployment, demographic change, corruption and unsustainable growth will continue to pose complex challenges in the coming decades, which will have to be addressed in the definition of the post-2015 global development framework. the report stresses the need for the eu, in the context of the future intergovernmental negotiations to define the new framework, to make every effort to ensure that these priorities are adequately addressed and to give priority to a human rights-based approach, which gives due weight to issues such as good governance, democracy, the rule of law and access to justice. i voted in favour of this approach.
in writing. - we can boast about the small steps taken in this or that area in the quality of life of the populations of our planet. however, while we admit progress in some areas, we find a profound deterioration in the quality of life of people in many parts of the world and in particular here in europe, where hunger and poverty are gaining ground every day. this report, while accurate in its report, fails to diagnose and prescribe nothing substantial for the patient's cure. in fact, nothing is said about the heavy responsibilities of the neoliberal policies implemented throughout the world since the 1980s. it says nothing about the absolute need for public programs to develop education and health and plan the economy. the idea that the whole strategy is based on an outsourcing logic is still in vogue, with the use of companies and ngos. we agree with all these objectives. we believe, however, that it is not possible to devise a clear strategy for its implementation without changing our model of society, in which the interests of big business take precedence over the well-being of the people and in which political power is in fact in the hands of economic power.
in writing. this report, while accurate in its denunciation, fails to diagnose and prescribes nothing substantial to solve this humanitarian disaster. in fact, nothing is said about the heavy responsibilities of the neoliberal policies implemented throughout the world since the 1980s. nothing is said about the responsibilities of the big multinational corporations, or the big military-industrial complex, which sow war and misery. it says nothing about the absolute need for public programs to develop education, health and economic planning. we agree with all these objectives. we believe, however, that it is not possible to devise a clear strategy for its implementation without changing our model of society in which the interests of big business override the well-being of the people, and in which political power is in fact in the hands of the big economic and financial powers.
in writing. - the integrated approach of the europe 2020 strategy emphasises the principle that smart, sustainable and inclusive growth cannot be achieved unless all five major objectives are met. on the other hand, the high unemployment rates in the european union are intrinsically linked to the decline in the industrial and manufacturing production base. i believe that meeting the reindustrialisation targets is fundamental to the eu's competitiveness and that the relaunch of a genuine european industrial policy will contribute to growth and job creation. at the same time, the commission and the member states should promote and improve mobility mechanisms, in particular the european vocational mobility portal (eutres) and public employment services, in order to increase employment, in particular among young people. the introduction of a dual education system and the implementation of genuine lifelong learning should also be introduced with a view to significantly improving the skills of older workers.
in writing. unemployment levels have continued to rise in some ms since the entry into force of the europe 2020 strategy and in the eu-28 reached an alarming 10.1% in 2014, with 24.6 million unemployed, and an increase in the number of workers in poverty. the most worrying figures are those for the outermost regions, where the average unemployment rate is 24% and the youth unemployment rate is 51%. the number of people at risk of poverty has also been increasing, currently standing at over 122.6 million, and the poverty risk rate in the eu is on average 24.8%, with 28% for children (up to the age of 18). the poverty rate of people with disabilities is 70%, higher than average, partly due to limitations in access to employment. the high unemployment rates in the eu are intrinsically linked to the shrinking base of industrial and manufacturing production, however, in 2020 more than 16 million citizens will be needed to reach the employment rate target of 75% in 2020, making it necessary to improve the leadership, management and entrepreneurial skills of young people so that new and start-up companies can take advantage of new markets and realise their growth potential. the commission will have to decide on the funding because the €6 million is not enough to solve the problem of youth unemployment in the eu.
in writing. the european parliament is concerned that the annual growth analyses and country-specific recommendations adopted so far as part of the annual european semester cycles have not been aligned with the social and employment objectives of the eu2020 strategy. they have not been and cannot be, except in the rhetoric with which they try to deceive the people. the neoliberal measures that have been implemented as an integral part of the eu2020 strategy, through the national reform plans, economic governance and the european semester, are contributing to the worsening of the social and economic crisis, making life increasingly difficult for workers and their families, imposing a model of low wages and widespread precariousness, increasing unemployment and poverty, destroying essential public services. we call for the eu 2020 strategy to be repealed and replaced by a strategy of progress and social justice through the strengthening and mobilisation of budgetary resources, with a view to increasing output in deficit countries, supporting smes, combating unemployment and precariousness, creating jobs with rights, safeguarding and enhancing public services. we regret that our amendments to this effect have been rejected by the majority of parliament.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy emphasises the principle that smart, sustainable and inclusive growth cannot be achieved unless all five major objectives are met. more and better needs to be done in the field of employment. we need to find ways of encouraging sustainable job creation. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the high levels of unemployment in the eu (24.6 million people, representing 10.1% of the general population; 23.3% in the case of youth unemployment) and the number of people at risk of poverty (over 122.6 million) seriously jeopardise the european social model, further demonstrating that the eu is far from achieving the major employment and poverty reduction objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. effective measures should therefore be taken to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and job creation, including in the context of public investment in innovation, research and development and vocational qualifications and skills, as well as in meeting the eu reindustrialisation targets, encouraging entrepreneurship and eliminating administrative burdens. in this connection, it is also worth noting the importance of the investment programme to combat unemployment recently announced by commission president jean-claude juncker. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution because i consider that the proposals in this resolution are appropriate to pursue the social and employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i'm going to talk about health and safety. the european commission has set itself a goal which is at least questionable, and i quote: preventing workers from suffering serious accidents or occupational diseases and promoting workers' health throughout their working life is essential to enable them to work later. beautiful words, but so empty of action and commitment. the right to safety, hygiene and health at work is a social right of workers, won through decades of struggle, which requires respect for the right to physical integrity, the prevention of accidents, occupational diseases, work-related diseases and the promotion of health at the workplace. there are a number of health and safety problems at work in portugal which are largely the result of a lack of enforcement of the laws that are already in place, which means complacency with employers. there is no inspection because the state services, which are supposed to monitor companies' infringements in this area, are simply being dismantled in the name of meeting the deficit target. it is this reality that makes reality so distant and hypocritical, resulting from eu guidelines and a discourse supposedly concerned with workers.
in writing. it is hypocritical that the european parliament is now very concerned that the annual growth survey and the country-specific recommendations adopted so far as part of the annual european semester cycles have not been aligned with the social and employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. how could that happen? if it is the neoliberal policies that have been applied as the matrix of the eu 2020 strategy, through the national reform plans, economic governance and the european semester, which contribute to the worsening of the social and economic crisis, making the lives of workers and their families increasingly difficult, imposing a model of low wages and widespread precariousness, increasing unemployment and poverty, destroying essential public services. we support the repeal of the eu 2020 strategy and its replacement by a strategy of progress and social justice through the strengthening and mobilisation of budgetary resources to increase production in deficit countries, support for smes, the fight against unemployment and precariousness, the creation of jobs with rights, the safeguarding and enhancement of public services. we regret that the amendments we tabled in this connection have been rejected by the majority of parliament.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president georgieva, i too would of course like to begin by expressing my regret that it was not possible to reach an agreement on the budget between our institutions within the 21 days of the conciliation period. the failure of the negotiations was undoubtedly due to a number of factors, some of a purely technical nature, others of a political nature. the conciliation was not a vain exercise: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this respect, the council agreed to use this budgetary flexibility instrument for 2014 precisely to deal with the exceptional situation of unpaid invoices and other outstanding commitments. i think that this is objectively a positive development, the result of a debate which is not to be taken for granted and which should not be underestimated, especially in view of the council's initial position of complete closure on this point. it is clear that no agreement has been reached on the level of use of the contingency margin, but this aspect can be worked on in the course of the negotiations which will open immediately after the presentation by the european commission of the new 2015 budget proposal. the council made further progress on the 2015 budget position compared to the position adopted last september with the availability of a reduction in the cuts in payment appropriations compared to the budget proposal presented by the european commission. this progress was not considered adequate for the prospect of an agreement, and the subsequent compromise proposal of the commission, formulated at the final stage of the conciliation, also failed to bring the positions closer together, although it contained elements in this direction. it is clear that at this point we must, however, start from the positive elements of the negotiations so far and identify the basis for reaching an overall agreement in the coming days. we must therefore first of all wait for the commission's new budget proposal, which will have to take account of the discussions with the council and the european parliament. we are confident that this proposal can provide an optimal starting point for the timely establishment of a common position enabling the 2015 budget to be adopted by next december. the italian presidency will clearly work towards this, as it has done in recent months, and it hopes and urges the active contribution of all the institutions involved. i believe that it is a common objective for all of us to ensure that europe and its citizens have an adequate budget, one that is able to meet the union's priorities and at the same time ensure the credibility of all its institutions.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, my apologies to mr arthuis for running in while he was speaking. we were with president schulz and it took us a while to reach the chamber. i am here reflecting on what we heard earlier today from pope francis. he spoke to us about the risk that we get so caught up in technicalities – in our case it would be margins and ceilings and payment credits and commitments – that we lose sight of why we are here and what we have to do. what we have to do is bring resources to help our people, our small businesses, our municipalities, our farmers, our teachers, the elderly that rely on social programmes that we fund, and this is what it is so important for us to keep focused on. like parliament, like the council, we regret very much that agreement was not reached in conciliation on monday night and that we started negotiations in earnest late and could not complete them, but we are working very hard to make it possible for us to facilitate, in our position of honest broker, the next stage of trialogue so that the council and parliament can agree on amending budgets for 2014 that would write off income from fines already collected to shrink the union’s unpaid bills, so that we are able to agree on a sound budget for 2015 that can underpin investments in competitiveness, growth and jobs and would underpin a strong europe in the world, and so that we can agree on the next steps in the coming months – that the commission would come up with a payment plan that shows how we can further shrink the bills that we are not supposed to have. we are not supposed to have unpaid bills in the union, and of course we count very much on the member states as well because, to come with a credible payment plan, we have to work with our member states as well as with parliament. i will finish with three points. my commitment here is that first we will put forward on friday for approval in the commission a revised draft budget for 2015 as required by the treaty. second, we will participate actively in the trialogue in the following days with a view to reaching an agreement, and third, we are also working on a budget in case we do not have an agreement. i pray we will not put our citizens at risk of the so-called provisional twelfths, which would mean less money and a much more difficult time in delivering resources where they are needed.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that parliament, despite the diversity which is welcome and which is also worth noting, has been united. it is also a fact that the council is divided on this matter. it is important that we take this as an opportunity, in the space we now have, an opportunity for a new draft budget, an opportunity also to reach an agreement within the council. what parliament wants should be what the council should want too. we don't want more money, we want to help pay off the debts, our ambition is no longer even to pay what is owed, it is to stabilize the debt. we want credibility, we also want it, and i would like to welcome the payment plan for the future, madam commissioner, but it is important that this payment plan is not made at the expense of delays in programmes which should already be in operation, because when we say that at the end of this year we run the risk of having 30 billion euros of unpaid invoices, this means that we are undermining growth and employment, we are penalizing small and mediumsized enterprises, we are also contributing to difficulties for national and local authorities, we are undermining farmers. and if we want growth and jobs, as i assume the council does, then we must not only pay what we owe, but also use the instruments at our disposal for growth, the budget being one of them, and respect for the multiannual financial framework should also be something we all share. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
ask him about the blue card procedure. mr president, i listened carefully to what you said and i am concerned, as a member and as a citizen, about the bad example that the executive bodies of the union are setting. so i'd like you to answer the following question: what is the cause of this accumulated debt of over 25 billion euros? poor management by executive bodies? spending beyond your means? what is the reason for this debt, since the member states are obliged by the commission and the executive bodies to follow strict austerity policies and to strictly adhere to budget deficits, what is the reason for this huge debt of the european union?
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. the reason is very simple: there is a majority in the council to approve commitments for the implementation of projects, for the advancement of new programmes, and then the result of these commitments are invoices, are payments, and the incredible and difficult thing to explain is that the same majority in the council, which approves programmes and projects, then fails to have the same majority, does not authorize the payments. there is no irregularity here, there is no mismanagement, it is a political issue and it is something unacceptable that our citizens do not understand. how can you not pay what is authorized and often asked for?
ask him about the blue card procedure. the tragedy we are discussing today also has a cultural origin, deriving from a culture that subordinates women. we have had here in parliament today the leader of a church which forbids women to be priests and which, at many catholic weddings, reads a passage from the gospel in which the bride swears obedience to her husband. i ask whether these conceptions help to combat culturally the scourge we are dealing with today, namely, men's violence against women?
i wanted to talk about the istanbul convention which enshrines women's rights. prevention, investigation and punishment were underpinned by this document but there are also doubts about the implementation of these objectives. we have already said that 62 million women in europe have been victims of physical and/or sexual violence, but there are 500 000 women and girls who have been subjected to female genital mutilation. 180,000 are at risk from this cruel practice. what do we have in concrete terms to prevent these women from being mutilated and cut off in their dignity? with the istanbul convention, it was certain that women would now be more protected. the truth is that the figures on violence against women show what has not been done. what legislative measures are being taken by the member states which have ratified the istanbul treaty? what preventive measures will be implemented? what monitoring mechanisms will be put in place? what sanctions will be enforced? what efforts is the commission making to ensure that the convention is actually ratified by all the member states? it is only by chance, and i will finish, and ironically, that this convention is called the istanbul convention, in reference to the statements made by the president of turkey, who considers that equality between men and women is against nature.
mr president, almost all the speakers have referred to the pope and the expression that the mediterranean cannot be a graveyard. to prevent that, seriously, there's a lot that can be done, but there's something that we have to do now: prioritize saving lives. in the previous mandate we adopted a regulation setting this priority for frontex missions. this parliament was right, the council was reluctant but eventually gave in. to take this seriously and not be hypocritical, we have to do two things: firstly, implement this regulation well and secondly, extend this priority to the tasks which are the responsibility of the member states. my question is this: do you agree with this, commissioner?
the delay in the implementation of the cohesion funds for the 2014-2020 period is already a reality. the delay in the approval of the partnership agreements was dramatic in the portuguese case and is affecting the finalisation and approval of the operational programmes. the impasse over the community budget could likewise seriously jeopardise the whole process, at a time when the arrears in payments already amount to some eur 25 billion. at a time when the eu is economically stagnant and still under threat of deflation, it is urgent to forge an ambitious public investment plan that can boost the economy. i therefore believe that the commission, instead of confusing the agenda with its 300 billion plan which no one has yet understood, should have concentrated on the transition between the two multiannual frameworks, thus avoiding another unnecessary gap, which is highly damaging to our economies.
in writing. on the very first page of the communication, the european commission sets out a goal that is at least questionable, which i quote: preventing workers from suffering serious accidents or occupational diseases and promoting workers' health throughout their working life is essential to enable them to work later. we cannot help but commend sincerity. let's go on to explain another version of the story: the right to safety, hygiene and health at work is a social right of workers, won through decades of struggle, which requires respect for the right to physical integrity, the prevention of accidents, occupational diseases, work-related diseases and the promotion of health at the workplace. in portugal there are a number of health and safety problems at work which are the direct result of the lack of supervision of the laws which are already in force, which means complacency with the employers. there is no inspection because the state services, which are supposed to monitor companies' infringements in this area, are simply being dismantled in the name of meeting the deficit target. it is this reality that makes reality so distant, resulting from eu guidelines and a discourse supposedly concerned with workers.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, welcome to this plenary. the stress tests and the balance sheet assessment of euro area banks have been a major step forward in the construction of the banking union. it allowed the new single supervisory system to be launched smoothly by the ecb earlier this month. it is, however, essential to ensure that in these years the evaluation criteria are the same for all banks, regardless of the importance of the countries in which they are situated. only this will ensure the credibility of future exercises. the banking union project will continue with the entry into force of the new rules underpinning the single resolution mechanism in early 2015, and we are currently working on building a competent and independent resolution board. we have taken essential steps, but we cannot stop here, we must complete what is lacking. first of all, parliament and the council must finalise the rules on the banks' contributions to the resolution fund, and i call for this process to be completed quickly, ensuring that each bank pays according to its risk profile.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. gradually, as the eurozone crisis deepened, the ecb extended its remit, becoming more and more involved in the economic sphere. it started by buying industrial quantities of sovereign debt on the secondary market. you went from a liquidity lender to a long-term financier. it is now moving forward with its purchase of abs, potentially toxic securities that threaten to turn the ecb into a veritable dump. it now requires member states to carry out structural reforms in such wide-ranging areas as health, education and social security. with banking supervision, it has powers that no other european institution has. how can monetary policy and banking supervision be brought together in the same institution? it's friedman himself who's probably rolling around in his coffin right now. it is not possible to give all these powers to the ecb without a counterpart in the form of democratic legitimacy. all the reforms other than those we are discussing involve a complete subversion of the institutions, devalue the voice of the citizens and alienate them from democratic life. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. i thank you, because i had more things to say, so i thank you for this question that allows me to complete the reasoning. it is no longer possible for the ecb to be reduced to a technical function. the ecb today has a political mission, and to confine the domain of this debate to a strictly technical question is a mistake, and we, as long as we are given a voice, will not allow that to happen.
the juncker plan is a clear indication of the deep crisis in which the eu remains mired and of the lack of solutions to the system to put an end to it. this was the condition that the european socialists imposed on juncker in order to support his election. let us consider: a programme that brings together €16 billion from the eu budget (previously allocated to other programmes) and €5 billion of capital from the european investment bank. the word that is being sought to multiply by 15, which is the miracle of the multiplication of loaves, thanks to private investment. it should be recalled that in 2012 durão barroso had announced a similar miracle, although more modest: eur 10 billion of eib funds would be converted, through innovative financial instruments, into eur 60 billion for loans guaranteeing eur 100 billion of investment. no more than 15 billion loans were granted. in both cases, the pomp and circumstance accompanied the announcement of measures which, as barroso vowed and as juncker now vows, signify the entry into a new cycle marked by growth and employment. this is pure propaganda. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial system is not undermined by the introduction of new forms of taxation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and to ensure that the mistakes of the past are not repeated in deregulation and financial speculation. the ecb now has greater supervisory responsibilities. the proposed amendments to regulation no 2533/1998 on the circulation and use of confidential statistical information in the context of prudential supervision are therefore fully justified, ensuring that the same data need only be collected once.
in writing. - these amendments are intended to allow the ecb to use confidential statistical data information in the performance of its new banking supervisory tasks. in addition, amendments are proposed to ensure that the same statistical information as that collected by the ecb in the context of its new tasks is transmitted within the escb, and that only the ecb can collect it. the authorities or bodies of the member states and the eu responsible for the supervision of financial institutions, markets and infrastructures or for the stability of the financial system may only have access to this information when it is transmitted to them by the escb. this report only adds to the concern about the physical and electronic protection of information, which must be ensured by technical, administrative and regulatory measures. the amendments tabled once again aim to empty the supervisory powers of the national institutions, and to ensure that confidential and important information passes through the ecb's screening first after the escb and only then through the national institutions, all in order to protect information that is important for the markets. this proposal comes as the ecb's role is being deepened and the sovereignty of the states is being lost in this strategic sector, in areas such as supervision and control. we voted against it.
in writing. in order to make the new ecb prudential supervisory mechanism effective, the ecb may use confidential statistical data to assist it in its new supervisory responsibilities. this is a very important issue in view of the various cases of supervisory failure that have occurred, somewhat across europe. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the draft council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2533/98 concerning the compilation of statistical information by the european central bank, as i consider that, in view of the new tasks of the european central bank (ecb) in the field of the prudential supervision of banking institutions, these amendments are justified in relation to the use and transmission of confidential statistical information by the ecb. it should, however, be ensured that the ecb, when defining and imposing statistical reporting requirements, respects the principle of proportionality. similarly, it is curious that the authorities or bodies of the member states and the eu to which confidential statistical information is transmitted take all the necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the physical and electronic protection of the data concerned.
in writing. in view of the new specific supervisory tasks that regulation (eu) no 1024/2013 assigns to the european central bank (ecb) within the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), it seems to me clear that the ecb's powers with regard to policies relating to the prudential supervision of european banking institutions need to be updated. in this respect, the proposed amendments authorize the ecb to use confidential statistical information in the performance of its new supervisory tasks, and also give it a new power to transmit confidential statistical information collected in accordance with article 5 of the statute of the ecb within the european system of central banks and also to the authorities of the member states and of the european union responsible for the oversight and stability of financial institutions, markets and infrastructures. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - these amendments are intended to authorize the ecb to use confidential statistical data information in the performance of its new banking supervisory tasks. the amendments also propose that the same statistical information as that collected by the ecb in the context of its new tasks should be transmitted within the escb, and that only the ecb should be able to collect it. this information shall be accessible only to the authorities or bodies of the member states and the eu responsible for the supervision of institutions and only when transmitted to them by the escb. this report only adds to the concern about the physical and electronic protection of information which must be ensured by technical, administrative and regulatory measures. we believe that these amendments only serve to empty the supervisory powers of the national institutions and to ensure that confidential and important information passes through the ecb's screening first after the escb and only then through the national institutions, all in order to protect information that is important for the markets. we voted against it.
in writing. these amendments are intended to allow the ecb to use confidential statistical data information in the performance of its new banking supervisory tasks. the amendments proposed also provide for the transmission within the escb of the same statistical information as that collected by the ecb under the new functions, which will be collected by the ecb alone. the authorities or bodies of the member states and the eu responsible for the supervision of financial institutions, markets and infrastructures or for the stability of the financial system may have access to this information only when it is transmitted to them by the escb. this report only adds to the concern about the physical and electronic protection of information which must be ensured by technical, administrative and regulatory measures. once again, the amendments tabled are designed to empty the supervisory powers of the national institutions, and to ensure that confidential and important information passes first through the ecb, then through the escb and only then through the national institutions. the central role of the ecb is being strengthened and all the consequences of the loss of sovereignty in the banking sector, of its supervision and control, which can lead to the poor performance of these institutions, are being addressed. we voted against it.
in writing. - the entry into force of the single supervisory mechanism requires the amendment of regulation no 2535/98 on the ecb's power to impose sanctions. i agree with the rapporteur, mrs swinburne, particularly on two points: firstly, the increase in transparency so much demanded by the ep by defining the obligation to publish decisions imposing sanctions, but allowing the ecb to postpone publication when this is disproportionate to the company or may destabilise the financial markets; secondly, the change in the procedure for calculating limitation periods in order to combat impunity (from the date when the decision to initiate proceedings was taken and not from the date of the infringement, which is often only discovered late).
in writing. - this regulation is a further step towards the implementation of the banking union, in particular the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). this ssm gives the ecb new supervisory powers in relation to euro area banks, such as the authorisation of all banks in the eu, the application of the single rulebook in the euro area, direct supervision of large banks (130) and monitoring of the supervision of less significant banks by national supervisors. under this regulation, the ecb may at any time decide to carry out direct supervision of one or more credit institutions, and national competent authorities may only impose sanctions on credit institutions directly supervised by the ecb when the ecb requests them to initiate a procedure to that end. in addition to usurping supervisory powers from national institutions, since this regulation gives the ecb supervisory functions that were previously performed by national institutions, such as banco de portugal, this regulation gives the ecb a significant administrative sanctioning capacity and states will lose control, regulation and intervention powers over banking, thus further limiting the possibility of this strategic sector being placed at the service of economic development. we voted against it.
this report follows the establishment and implementation of a single mechanism for banking supervision in the euro area, the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). the regulation gives the ecb new supervisory powers in relation to euro area banks, such as the authorisation of all banks in the eu, the application of the single rulebook in the euro area, the direct supervision of all significant banks, including those with assets of more than eur 30 billion or representing at least 20% of their home country's gdp (about 130 banks), and the monitoring of the supervision of less significant banks by national supervisors. this also means that this regulation gives the ecb the ability to impose administrative sanctions and thus reinforces its position as the most powerful non-democratic entity and apparently holder of an endless mandate. the member states are thus weaker in the area of regulation and intervention than they were in the case of banking. for these reasons i voted against.
the financial crisis has revealed the need for better regulation and supervision of the eu's financial sector. new rules have been adopted to ensure that all financial players, products and markets are properly regulated and effectively supervised. these standards create a basic framework for all 28 eu member states and form the basis for the smooth functioning of the single market for financial services. for regulation to be fully effective, it must be accompanied by strict supervision and enforcement. the objective is therefore to improve supervision of the financial sector at eu level, on the one hand, by improving coordination between national supervisors and, on the other hand, by strengthening supervision at eu level, under the ecb's top management, in order to address risks and issues with cross-border implications. the two levels of supervision are complementary and fundamental to preserving financial stability in europe. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2532/98 on the power of the european central bank to impose sanctions, considering that, in view of the new tasks of the european central bank (ecb) in the field of the prudential supervision of banking institutions, these amendments are justified, which are essentially aimed at defining the specific rules concerning the maximum limit of sanctions imposed by the ecb in the exercise of its supervisory tasks (new article 4a), the specific procedural rules for the imposition of such sanctions, including the review procedure (new article 4b) and the specific time limits applicable to administrative sanctions imposed by the ecb in the exercise of its supervisory tasks (new article 4c). the credibility of the single supervisory mechanism is enhanced if the ecb has clear and unequivocal authority to impose sanctions on banks that are in breach of the law.
in writing. since 4 november this year, the single mechanism for banking supervision in the euro area (single supervisory mechanism - ssm) has been fully operational. in this respect, the amendment to regulation (ec) no 2532/98 - on the power of the european central bank (ecb) to impose sanctions, which preceded the creation of the ssm, constitutes an important step in the effective implementation of a more coherent and effective regulatory framework. the ssm confers new supervisory powers on the ecb in respect of euro area credit institutions, including the authorisation of all banks in the eu and the consistent and coherent application of a single set of rules in the euro area, the direct supervision of significant credit institutions (about 130) and, finally, the monitoring of the supervision of less significant credit institutions by national supervisory authorities. in addition to the obvious need for updating, the enhancement of the credibility of the ssm requires that the ecb has a clear and unequivocal authority to impose sanctions, and this report proposes a number of amendments to that effect, which i support and voted in favour of. i would like to conclude by recalling that the ssm is a fundamental step towards the achievement of genuine economic and monetary union in europe.
in writing. - this regulation is a further step towards the implementation of a regulatory framework for the achievement of the objective of banking union, in particular for the single supervisory mechanism. this regulation completely extends the ecb's statutory powers and allows it to decide at any time to exercise direct supervision of one or more credit institutions, while national competent authorities may only impose sanctions on credit institutions directly supervised by the ecb (130) when the ecb requests them to initiate a procedure to that end. in addition to usurping supervisory powers from national institutions, since this regulation gives the ecb supervisory functions which were previously performed by national institutions, such as banco de portugal, this regulation gives the ecb the capacity to impose administrative sanctions. the states will lose the power of control, regulation and intervention over banking that they still have, thus further limiting the possibility of putting this strategic sector at the service of economic development.
in writing. the regulation amending regulation no 2532/98 is a further step towards implementation and a regulatory framework for achieving the objective of banking union, in particular for the single supervisory mechanism. this ssm gives the ecb new supervisory powers over euro area banks. under this regulation, the ecb may at any time decide to carry out direct supervision of one or more credit institutions, and national competent authorities may only impose sanctions on credit institutions directly supervised by the ecb (130) when the ecb has requested them to initiate a procedure to that end. in addition to usurping the supervisory powers of national institutions, since this regulation gives the ecb supervisory functions that were previously performed by national institutions, such as banco de portugal, this regulation gives the ecb a significant capacity to impose administrative sanctions and states will lose the little or almost no power of control, regulation and intervention over banking that they still have, thus further limiting the possibility of this strategic sector being put at the service of economic development. we voted against it.
in the last few decades, climate change has impacted natural and human systems on every continent and poses an unprecedented threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet. the whole world must therefore prepare a response to the challenge of climate change as a matter of urgency. to this end, i consider it essential that an agreement is reached at the paris climate conference in december 2015 establishing an ambitious, legally binding international agreement for climate action beyond 2020. on the other hand, there is an urgent need to strengthen and extend existing measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and beyond. in parallel, increased funding from developed countries for mitigation, adaptation, technology transfer and development and capacity building in developing countries should be provided, in line with the establishment of a green climate fund.
climate change poses an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, which thus requires the international response of all parties. they also pose an unprecedented threat to the biosphere and to the production and supply of food and water, especially for the poorest people on most continents, and to health, well-being and economic development worldwide. climate change has impacted natural and human systems on every continent and in the oceans, and is affecting the flora and fauna of the planet. however, the eu has been reducing its emissions and as a result has almost halved its average emission intensity between 1990 and 2012 and reduced per capita emissions by 25%. according to the world bank, the fight against climate change would add up to €1.9 billion annually and it is important that governments take concrete action against climate change without further delay and towards a global agreement in paris in 2015 to achieve this goal.
in writing. - we agree to more ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations). we agree with the principle of sharing responsibility and helping developing countries to cope with the consequences of climate change. the main polluters, causing changes in the composition of the earth's atmosphere, are the industrialized countries. it is the least developed countries that suffer the most. but we again disagree strongly on the means defined to achieve the goals that are again being set. instead of a regulatory approach, there is a continued insistence on a market approach to climate change, in the carbon market, in the buying and selling of the right to pollute. the carbon market has not only failed to reduce emissions, but is now objectively a disincentive to the adoption of low-carbon technologies. for one simple reason: it is cheaper to buy permits to pollute. we have also long advocated the need for sectoral policies - trade, agriculture, energy and others - to be consistent with emission reduction targets. the inconsistency is evident today. we have therefore tabled amendments to the resolution to remove the negative aspects and to point out others which are missing. unfortunately, they were dropped, so we could not vote in favour.
climate change poses an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, which thus requires the international response of all parties. governments must therefore take concrete action against climate change without further delay and towards a global agreement in paris in 2015 to achieve the goals that have been negotiated for several years. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. climate change poses a potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore requires an urgent and determined international response. the measures to be taken include, inter alia, the conclusion of an agreement at the paris climate conference in december 2015 (cop 21) establishing an ambitious, legally binding international agreement for climate action beyond 2020; the urgent strengthening and broadening of existing measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions by 2020; and the increase of financing by developed countries for reduction, adaptation, technology transfer and development and capacity building in developing countries, as well as the simultaneous increase of official development assistance to meet the long-promised target of 0,7% of gross national income. in this regard, it is appropriate to underline the importance of the next united nations climate change conference (cop 20), to be held in lima, peru, from 1 to 12 december 2014, and to call on the eu and its member states to play a constructive and leading role in it.
in writing. - we agree on greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, with greater concern for meeting the targets set and with the need for other, more ambitious targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations). we also agree with the principle of sharing responsibility and helping developing countries to cope with the consequences of climate change. the truth is that the most serious consequences for people are felt in the poorest countries and with the least capacity to respond. as regards the carbon market, it is not mentioned that 1999 was precisely the year when this flexible mechanism was introduced under the kyoto protocol and that the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme was launched in 2005. instead of a regulatory approach, a market approach to climate change is still being insisted on, and while acknowledging the failure of this policy option, the eu is only concerned with lower profits and disinterest in buying allowances, proposing to remove excess allowances from circulation.
in writing. as in previous resolutions, we agree on greenhouse gas emission reduction targets; greater concern with meeting the targets set and the need for other, more ambitious targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations). we agree with the principle of sharing responsibility and helping developing countries to cope with the consequences of climate change. since the main polluters, the causes of such changes, are the richest and most industrialized countries, the truth is that the most serious consequences for the populations are felt in the countries with the least capacity to respond, where the socioeconomic circumstances are most unfavourable to their populations. the objectives of the kyoto protocol, with these mechanisms, which were to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with co2 as an index, have been replaced by the desire to see another functioning, free market generating millions of euros, becoming a business opportunity, as we have always said. this parliament is simply proposing green solutions, such as a part of the revenue from this market being allocated to financing the fight against climate change.
mrs mogherini, i want to thank you for being here and for your proposal. a proposal to be understood has to be clear and simple, and yours was very clear and very simple: a two-state system, 1967 borders and jerusalem as its capital. it is not an innovation, it is the proposal of the united nations, and we have been discussing it for a long time, but i want to thank you for your proposal. in any case, the recognition of a state implies that other elements must be present, provided that the occupation is ended. the european union does not recognise the occupied territories, it must not recognise them at all, and it must not continue to act as if they did not exist. it also implies self-determination, it implies fighting to prevent arms being sold to the oppressor state. you have to work on all dimensions. i applaud your initiative, mrs. mogherini, but i say to you, without patronizing: keep fighting for it. because otherwise, as the poet would say, truth has two faces and snow is black after all.
the recognition of the palestinian state is a basic act of justice in the face of the long decades of martyrdom suffered by the palestinian people. recognising a palestinian state, in accordance with un resolutions, based on the borders of 1967 and with its capital in east jerusalem, is the best way to relaunch peace negotiations. the two-state solution must be supported and implemented. many prominent figures in israelite society share this view. the european union is one of the main donors to that region, and it must use all its political and economic weight to put an end to israeli aggression and help all the member states which have not yet done so to recognize the palestinian state in the name of the most basic human rights of the people.
i've been here since the beginning of the debate. i asked to speak in catch the eye, i asked to speak in front of members who have spoken in the meantime, and therefore i am making my protest here about the criteria for selecting people in catch the eye.
the recognition of the state of palestine is a long overdue and urgent step to break the impasse in the peace process. the ep should support sweden and national parliaments that have made progress in this direction. for the palestinians, but also for the israelis. in israel today, the contradiction between the jewish state and the democratic state is being dangerously deepened. formal recognition must be accompanied by a european effort to support the functioning of a state in palestine capable of providing security for the region, including israel. the eu must make israel feel that it will no longer tolerate the policy of oppression and occupation to which the palestinian people have been subjected since 1967, a policy which plays into the hands of extremist forces such as hamas. the eu-israel partnership agreement should be suspended as long as the illegal occupation continues. without an end to the occupation, palestine will not be a safe land for palestinians and israelis. the european union must oppose the reactionary rhetoric of the government of benjamin netanyahu. the israeli people must understand that the price for their security and peace is the authority of a viable, democratic and independent state in palestine.
25 years of the un convention on the rights of the child. it is clearly a good time to put children and the defence of their interests and rights back on the agenda. despite the importance of all the issues discussed in this parliament, i think everyone will agree that this will be one of the priorities that can generate more consensus. union action in this area is not new. but we have to be even more ambitious. we cannot be satisfied with the fact that all the member states of the european union have already ratified the un convention and the other additional protocols. we must ensure that what we have legally agreed to is carried out in practice. among the various scourges we have to combat, i would like to highlight cyberbullying, child abuse, child pornography and genital mutilation. no tradition, culture or religion should be used as a justification for violence against children. we must help and promote better conditions for the most disadvantaged children, placed in families with fewer resources or in the poorest communities. but we also need to ensure that our justice systems are prepared to deal with children and that our education systems are inclusive and tackle early school leaving. let's not forget that nearly seven million children under the age of five died in 2012 from preventable and preventable causes; that about 170 million children are subjected to child labor; that a quarter of a million are child soldiers. we cannot but condemn in the strongest terms the indoctrination and use of children for terrorist or military activities. that is why i support this resolution, which takes a global view, addressing all the issues needed to better protect our children. a europe which does not care about our children would be a europe which turns its back on the future.
the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child is a memorable occasion and should lead us to reflect deeply on the current situation of children in the world. and we must start with our own political space, the european political space. unfortunately, we are led to realise that child poverty situations in europe are far from being a thing of the past. in recent years, there have been even significant setbacks in countries where extremely violent austerity policies have been applied. a recent unicef report points in that direction: in some european countries, the number of children suffering from severe material deprivation has increased, as has the percentage of people who say they do not have enough money to buy food for themselves and their families. and this european situation is even paradoxical if we look at what is happily happening in other parts of the world. good examples come from latin america, for example, from countries such as chile, argentina and brazil, where very significant steps have been taken to promote children's rights.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the results of the g20 meeting show first of all the depth of a crisis which is far from being overcome. the inability of the major capitalist powers to overcome the systemic crisis in which they are immersed is evident. that is why we are dealing with a systemic crisis which will find its solution only in the context of the abolition of the unjust and oppressive system which has created it. in the face of new data that accentuate the prospect of stagnation or even recession in some of the major economies, for example in europe, the hundreds of measures aimed at economic recovery amount to little more than a handful of nothing and the other of nothing. in the absence of room for manoeuvre for the application of the keynesian recipe, given the scale of the crisis, the prospect of channelling public resources to multinationals under the so-called infrastructure investment programmes is reaffirmed. once again, there is talk of fighting tax evasion, but not a word is said about the necessary end to tax havens, about the deregulation of the financial system, which continues to allow evasion, as well as other criminal practices such as money laundering.
mr president, rather than talking about malnutrition in developing countries, i would like to speak literally about hunger. i would therefore like to bring to this debate the expression 'child hunger' within the european union. it is particularly urgent to talk about the hunger caused by unemployment, bankruptcy and the absence of a state in the countries affected by the troika. in my country, portugal, it is the schools that guarantee a hot meal to the children. these are the same schools that open their doors on saturdays and sundays to make sure that the children don't go without food. and you know why? because in a country of unemployment, where migration is forced, parents have no way to feed and support their children. in 2011 - we are talking in the middle of the crisis - about 29% of portuguese children were at risk of poverty. with the misery imposed by austerity, it is estimated that 35,000 children are hungry in my country. there is hunger in europe, there is hunger in greece, in spain, in portugal, in ireland. what does the commission intend to do about poverty and hunger within the european union?
mr president, hunger and malnutrition among children have a structural dimension and very specific causes, such as the promotion of the export-oriented agro-industrial model and the consequent qualitative impoverishment of the world agricultural sector. years and years of underinvestment in agriculture, of encouraging people to abandon farming, of the liquidation of family farming and small and mediumsized farms, a sector which provides the livelihood for 70% of the world's poor. market fundamentalism, privatisation and liberalisation policies, free trade, have had and have the effect of abandoning the land, concentrating ownership, dominating production by a few and making the many dependent on food. hunger and malnutrition are a living, accusing libel against an unjust, exploitative, oppressive system which is therefore historically condemned. it is regrettable, but illuminating, that the question that this debate raises is addressed, that child malnutrition is addressed as a profitable investment for donors. the fight against malnutrition is an ethical duty, an unwavering duty, and above all a matter of justice.
mr president, when i was part of a delegation from this parliament to pakistan in 2013, the nawaz sharif government committed itself to implementing a moratorium on the use of the death penalty and to improving human rights. this was a key condition for this parliament to consider granting gsp plus status to pakistan. but we are regressing and, as we see, covered by the reactionary blasphemy law that serves to spread fear and religious and ethnic intolerance and overturns any legislative progress that has been made in the meantime. the blasphemy law impedes religious freedom, oppresses minorities, christians and muslims, shiites and sunnis, and oppresses citizens. it keeps pakistan at the bottom of the civilization scale. worse, it is promoted as a counter-terrorism tool, it plays into the hands of terrorists, it crushes civil society, which wants to live in a free and democratic pakistan. we have to demand, we have to send a clear message to nawaz sharif and we have to support all those in pakistan who are fighting for freedom and democracy and human rights. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
blue-card answer. – in my opinion, what is necessary is the abolishment of the blasphemy laws, because these blasphemy laws clearly contradict basic human rights, which were a condition for gsp+, so that message must be sent to pakistan. i do not think that withdrawing from gsp+ would be positive at this point, but that must definitely be on the horizon if pakistan does not take the necessary measures and continues to obey, for instance, reactionary forces from saudi arabia and to put forward these laws that basically violate the human rights of christians, as well as muslims, in pakistan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no religion can justify barbarism and savagery. no religion can justify an angry mob beating to death a christian couple and burning their bodies in the ovens of the factory where they worked. no religion can justify the shooting of a governor in the province of punjab and a christian minister of minorities just because they criticized the blasphemy law and were in favor of the rights of religious minorities. no law can justify the detention, with the possibility of being sentenced to death, of more than a thousand people, the most famous and emblematic of whom is asia bibi. no religion can justify the shooting of a lawyer, rashid rehman, in the full exercise of his office, for defending in court a constituent accused of blasphemy. enough of the barbarism! pakistan must be brought into the community of civilized nations.
in writing. the pcp and its group, the gue/ngl, have done everything in their power to give political and institutional expression in the european parliament to the justified indignation and social censure aroused by the revelation of the scandal involving the current president of the european commission, involving the evasion of tax payments by hundreds of multinationals. the gue/ngl prepared a motion of censure, which did not reach the minimum number of signatures needed for discussion. it was the choice of the green, social democrat and liberal groups not to support the gue/ngl motion, thus making it impossible to discuss and vote on it. it is unquestionable that the european commission and its president deserve to be censured. but we cannot support or whitewash the opportunism of the extreme right in this process. having collected enough signatures, they tabled the motion of censure which has now been voted. but they did so in such terms that by pointing the finger at juncker and the commission, they whitewashed the system in which they both sit and which they both represent. not a word is said about tax havens or the deregulation of the financial system - essential parts of the machinery put together to relieve multinationals of their tax obligations. in fact, several of the signatories of this motion are known supporters of this same mechanism. reasons for our abstention
in writing. i believe that jean claude juncker and his commission should be censured. for the same reason, the gue/ngl is proposing a motion of censure which, having failed to obtain the support of the green and socialist and democratic parliaments, has not reached the required number of signatures. i cannot, however, support a motion of censure supported by the far right, which destroys the political system that allows tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance to exist in the european union, by targeting only the president of the commission. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i voted against this motion of censure, because i consider that it is based on the worst of motives. its signatories are not interested in discussing the goodness of this new commission, but only in questioning the eu itself. when the national front and the efd join forces to put forward a motion of censure against this commission, they are not censuring it, they are censuring the eu itself as it exists today. so under no circumstances could i agree to it.
in writing. i voted against this motion of censure because it is a mere instrument for political exploitation of the partisan forces opposed to european integration. i note the ambiguity of the radical left in the face of this initiative of the radical right. i welcome the political will expressed by the president of the commission and the commission to make a consistent effort towards fiscal convergence which will put an end to the current imbalances and relative injustices which, although legal, distort the main objectives of economic and monetary union.
in writing. the strong vote against this motion of censure on the commission, with only 15.5% of the votes cast in favour - mainly by the far right groups in the european parliament and by non-attached members - is a clear indication of the timelessness, impertinence and impropriety of this initiative. i also note that all the portuguese members (present at the vote) voted against this motion, with the exception of the members belonging to the gue/ngl parliamentary group, who abstained.
in writing. - juncker and the commission are to be widely condemned. the gue/ngl group has done its best to bring a motion to the floor. unfortunately, it was not possible because the greens and s&d refused to sign it, supporting juncker and his policy. however, we cannot also vote in favour of an opportunist act by the extreme right. in fact, they want to take advantage of the climate created around this scandal to blame juncker without blaming the system he represents - a system from which tax havens, in particular in the city, offshore and deregulation of the financial system are constituent parts. that is why we will abstain, making clear what our reasons are.
in writing. the pcp and its group, the gue/ngl, have done everything in their power to give political and institutional expression in the european parliament to the justified indignation and social censure aroused by the revelation of the scandal involving the current president of the european commission, which involved the evasion of tax payments by hundreds of multinationals. the gue/ngl therefore prepared a motion of censure which did not reach the minimum number of signatures needed for discussion. it was the choice of the green, social democrat and liberal groups not to support the gue/ngl motion, thus making it impossible to discuss and vote on it. it is unquestionable that the european commission and its president deserve to be censured. but we cannot support or whitewash the opportunism of the extreme right in this process. having collected enough signatures, they tabled the motion of censure which has now been voted. but they did so in such terms that by pointing the finger at juncker and the commission, they whitewashed the system in which they both sit and which they both represent. not a word is said about tax havens or the deregulation of the financial system - essential parts of the machinery put together to relieve multinationals of their tax obligations. in fact, several of the signatories of this motion are known supporters of this same mechanism. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - this recommendation does not object to the commission delegated regulation on the provisional system of advance payments of contributions to cover the administrative expenses of the single resolution board during the transitional period. it therefore aims to make this council operational. our position on this recommendation is inseparable from our more general position on the single resolution board itself and the banking union project in which it is embedded. we reject the option of centralising the mechanisms of supervision, by cutting off significant parts of the sovereignty which the states have hitherto retained. this crisis should have led to a rethinking of the entire architecture of the financial system, focusing the discussion on the need for public control of banking and financial institutions as the only way to ensure the proper functioning of the economy. given the essentially technical nature of the recommendation, we opted to abstain.
i agree with the rapporteur's position that there are no objections to the commission delegated regulation on the provisional system of advances on contributions to cover the administrative expenditure of the single resolution board during the transitional period.
in writing. article 42 of the srm regulation provides for the establishment of a single resolution board, which should be fully operational as of 1 january 2015. in accordance with the powers conferred on it in article 65 (5) of the srm regulation, the commission adopted on 8 october 2014 a delegated regulation on the provisional system of advance payments of contributions to cover the administrative expenses of the single resolution board during the transitional period. taking into account that the regular functioning of the council as from 1 january 2015 requires that it establishes its financing arrangements as soon as possible and in any event before 1 january 2015 so that it can cover its first administrative expenditure (staff remuneration, infrastructure, administrative and operational expenditure) from its own resources, and considering furthermore that the council will have an autonomous budget, which is not part of the union budget, but is financed by contributions from the banking sector, i voted in favour of this decision to raise no objections to the said commission delegated regulation of 8 october 2014.
in writing. - we understand the need to make operational the policy decisions taken by the commission and the council. we understand that the single resolution board needs the means now to be able to start functioning as early as january 2015. however, we reject these policies of regulation, devised in the wake of the financial crisis, which centralize control mechanisms to the detriment of the sovereignty of countries. we therefore think that this crisis should lead to a rethinking of the whole architecture of the financial system, focusing the discussion on the need for public control of banking and financial institutions as the only way to ensure the proper functioning of the economy. as such, we refuse to be associated with this single resolution mechanism, and therefore opt for abstention.
in writing. cohesion policy is the main eu-wide investment policy in the real economy and a recognised catalyst for growth and jobs in the eu, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020, and is therefore an important part of the eu's strategy to correct regional imbalances and inequalities, promote diversification and adaptation to industrial change and achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. in addition to the delay in implementation for the 2014-2020 programming period, cohesion policy is also facing a backlog of payments amounting to some eur 23 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period, which should be a cause for concern. in this context, it is essential that the commission and the member states show responsibility and make every effort to accelerate the adoption of a maximum number of operational programmes in 2014.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution because we are deeply concerned about the significant delays in the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. it also recognises that these delays represent a challenge (no euphemism) for national, regional and local authorities in the effective planning and implementation of the structural funds. it is not just a question of challenges, when reality shows the objective difficulties in obtaining financing. in this way, parliament puts pressure on the commission and on member states that have not yet paid their share of the budget to speed up the adoption of the maximum number of operational programmes by 31 december 2014. the operational programmes which are not ready for adoption by the end of 2014 imply a revision procedure of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff) by 1 may 2015, and parliament calls on the commission to launch a debate with the three institutions as soon as possible with a view to defining a revision of the mff as early as possible in 2015, which we agree to, arguing that the mff is too small for the needs, in particular in the area of economic and social cohesion.
in writing. cohesion policy is the main eu-wide investment policy in the real economy and a recognised catalyst for growth and jobs in the eu, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020. cohesion policy is an important part of the eu's strategy to correct regional imbalances and inequalities, to promote diversification and adaptation to industrial change, and to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. in some member states, this policy is the main source of public investment. we must therefore condemn the delays in the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. cohesion policy accounts for a large proportion of growth-related public expenditure in the eu, with a budget of over €350 billion by 2020, and it is therefore imperative to start implementing the new operational programmes as soon as possible in order to maximise investment returns, stimulate job creation and promote productivity growth. i therefore find the considerable delays in the programming and implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 and the situation of late payments under cohesion policy for the 2007-2013 operational programmes very worrying. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, thus joining the call for every effort to be made to ensure that as many operational programmes as possible are ready for adoption by 31 december 2014 and for the commission to come forward with solutions to mitigate the damage resulting from this delay in payments.
in writing. following the oral question to the commission on the delays in the launch of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, we voted on a joint motion for a resolution on the same subject, which was endorsed by the 7 parliamentary groups in the european parliament and voted in favour by 608 of the 666 members of the european parliament present at the time of the vote. with this clear position, we wanted to send a signal to the commission and the council that they should resolve this incomprehensible and embarrassing situation as soon as possible, which, together with the delay in payments relating to commitments made during the 2007-2013 programming period, is currently the main concern for a large majority of elected members, including myself. the resolution voted today sets out some solutions not only to these questions but also to the parallel budgetary debate between the three institutions.
in writing. - the delay in the implementation of the cohesion funds for the 2014-2020 period is already a reality. the delay in the approval of the partnership agreements was dramatic in the portuguese case and is affecting the finalisation and approval of the operational programmes. the impasse over the community budget could likewise seriously jeopardise the whole process, at a time when the arrears in payments already amount to some eur 25 billion. at a time when the eu is economically stagnant and still under threat of deflation, it is urgent to forge an ambitious public investment plan that can boost the economy. i therefore believe that the commission, instead of confusing the agenda with its 300 billion plan which no one has yet understood, should have concentrated on the transition between the two multiannual frameworks, thus avoiding another unnecessary gap, which is highly damaging to our economies.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution because we are deeply concerned about the significant delays in the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. it also recognises that these delays represent a challenge for national, regional and local authorities in the effective planning and implementation of the structural funds. however, these are not just challenges, as the reality shows the objective difficulties in obtaining funding. parliament is thus putting pressure on the european commission and the member states to speed up the adoption of the maximum number of operational programmes by 31 december 2014 in order to benefit from the transitional procedure provided for in the financial regulation, which allows the use of appropriations not used in the previous financial year.
in writing. we agree with the aim of improving the rigour and credibility of the impact assessment (ia) process, ensuring that economic, social and environmental aspects are assessed in equal depth and that the approach is carried out in all initiatives legislative proposals; commission legislative and work programme; non-legislative initiatives that define future policies; and commission delegated or implementing acts that may have significant identifiable impacts. but it is not this concern that is at the heart of the proposals put forward by the commission and its president. we have the strongest reservations about the advisory body called better lawmaking, which is mentioned in the resolution. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, and the representatives of the interested parties are convinced that the lobbyists will have a greater say in the whole legislative process, from the source. moreover, under the pretext of avoiding that smes are disproportionately affected or harmed by the commission's initiatives compared to larger companies, what is actually intended is to further weaken the ai instrument. in view of these contradictions, we could not vote in favour.
in writing. ai, as an instrument at an early stage in the development of the legislative framework, plays a crucial role in the commission's smart regulation agenda, with the aim of providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced data on the economic, social and environmental consequences, the added value of eu action, the expected administrative and regulatory burdens, and the costs and benefits of alternative lines of action for all stakeholders. the commission's commitment to regularly review the ia guidelines with a view to improving the ia procedures is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. impact assessments are an important tool to support decision-making in the legislative process, as they allow data to be collected on the economic, social and environmental consequences of legislative proposals, the added value of eu action, the expected administrative and regulatory burdens, and the costs and benefits of alternative lines of action. it therefore seems to welcome the commission's initiative to revise the guidelines on impact assessments with a view to improving the procedures for impact assessments. the draft revision presented does, however, have some shortcomings which need to be addressed, in particular as regards the clarification of the role of the jrc and the strengthening of its independence, the introduction of the reference to the sme test, the approach to the exclusion of micro-enterprises from the scope of legislative proposals and the updating of impact assessments following the changes introduced during the legislative process. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which rightly calls on the commission to present a new draft guideline on impact assessments which takes due account of the above aspects.
in writing. impact assessments play a key role as a pre-legislative tool to provide transparent, comprehensive and balanced data on the economic, social and environmental consequences of eu action. for this reason, i welcome and approve the commitment made by the commission to the draft revision of the legislative guidelines, particularly as regards impact assessments. this will promote an improvement in legislative procedures and ensure a careful assessment of the economic, social and environmental aspects associated with them. i voted in favour of this proposal because it calls for rigorous, comprehensive impact assessments with full, accurate and objective information, based on a balanced analysis and focused on the scope of the proposal, so as to enable informed policy decisions to be taken. in addition, they should be updated to ensure continuity between the elements contained therein and any other proposal that is finally adopted by the commission. if these requirements are met, impact assessments are an important means of supporting decision-making in all the eu institutions and an essential element of the better lawmaking process.
in writing. - we agree on the objective of improving the impact assessment (ia) process, covering economic, social and environmental aspects. the approach should be applied to all initiatives: legislative proposals and the commission's legislative and work programme, legislative proposals not included in that programme with clearly identifiable economic, administrative, social and environmental impacts, non-legislative initiatives defining future policies and delegated or implementing acts of the commission which may have significant impacts identifiable in the same terms. however, we regret that this resolution seeks to establish an advisory body called better lawmaking. the eu, as always, is giving one hand to take the other, and that is why the resolution supports the maintenance of the sme tests, to avoid that smes are disproportionately affected or harmed by the commission's initiatives compared to larger companies, naturally accepting that smes are harmed, as long as this damage is not disproportionate. in view of these contradictions, we could not vote in favour.
in writing. we agree with the aim of improving the impact assessment (ia) process, ensuring that economic, social and environmental aspects are assessed in equal depth and that the approach is carried out in all initiatives: legislative proposals in the commission's legislative and work programme, legislative proposals not included in the said programme that have clearly identifiable economic, administrative, social and environmental impacts, non-legislative initiatives that define future policies and commission delegated or implementing acts that may have significant identifiable impacts in the same terms. however, we regret that this resolution seeks to establish an advisory body called better lawmaking, composed of stakeholder representatives and national experts, to complement the commission's work on ai, particularly with regard to subsidiarity and proportionality. the eu, as always, is playing catch-up, and that is why the resolution supports the maintenance of the sme tests, to avoid that smes are disproportionately affected or harmed by the commission's initiatives compared to larger companies', naturally accepting that smes are harmed, provided that this harm is not disproportionate. in view of these contradictions, we could not vote in favour.
in writing. in 2012, some 6.6 million children under the age of 5 died, mostly from preventable causes; 168 million children aged 5-17 are involved in some form of child labour; 11% of girls are married before they turn 15; more than 59 million children were directly affected by crises, mostly linked to conflict, and there are some 250,000 child soldiers in the world. in 2012 alone, nearly 95,000 children and adolescents under the age of 20 were murdered, nearly one billion children aged 2 to 14 were subjected to physical punishment, one in three adolescents aged 13 to 15 were harassed, about 70 million young people aged 15 to 19 were subjected to some form of physical violence, and 120 million girls worldwide were forced into sexual intercourse at some point in their lives. these figures deserve reflection on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child, and are also an opportunity to ensure its full implementation in programme and practice and to take additional measures to ensure respect for the rights of children, especially the most vulnerable.
in writing. 25 years after the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, it is necessary to reflect on the path taken to promote a future with better conditions of well-being and dignity for children. the convention, despite the accession it has granted, is not being applied in many countries of the world. in several member states, children's rights are being put at risk by the eu's austerity policies. policies that lead to the deprivation of various rights, such as the right to education, health, housing and healthy food adequate for their physical and mental growth. only an urgent break with these policies will prevent the worsening of the living conditions of children and the attack on their rights. we welcome the adoption of our amendments which advocate the extension of the public network of kindergartens, day nurseries and public services providing play activities for children; which call on the member states to protect or increase the rights of motherhood and fatherhood and to ensure compulsory secondary education free of charge for all. it is significant and regrettable that the psd and cds voted against several of these proposals. and that the ps also voted against references to the effects of austerity policies.
the united nations convention on the rights of the child and its optional protocols constitute the standard in the promotion and protection of children's rights, encompassing a wide range of international legal standards relating to the protection and well-being of children. children's rights are at the heart of eu policies and the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child is an opportunity to ensure its full implementation in programme and practice and to take further steps to ensure that children's rights, especially the most vulnerable ones, are respected everywhere. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. while significant progress has been made in defending children's rights since the adoption of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, the truth is that these rights continue to be violated in many parts of the world as a result of violence, abuse, exploitation, poverty, social exclusion and discrimination, with 2.6 million children living below the poverty line since 2008, even in rich countries, bringing the total number of children living in poverty in the developed world to around 76.5 million. however, given that the promotion of children's rights is an explicit objective of eu policies, this resolution proposes a set of additional measures to be taken by the eu and its member states (such as the ratification of all optional protocols to the un convention by the member states and the full implementation of the common european asylum system package) to effectively promote and safeguard children's rights, thereby ensuring the full implementation of the convention and the eu's commitment in the stockholm programme.
in writing. the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child is being celebrated. this is the perfect opportunity to put them at the centre of the european union's policies and to ensure their full implementation, not only at the programme level but above all in practice, by adopting measures to ensure that the rights and interests of the most vulnerable people in particular are respected. it is a fact that all the member states of the european union have already ratified the un convention. however, we must strive to ensure that the united states, somalia and south sudan also do so, so that its ratification becomes universal. but it's not enough! we must also ensure that what is ratified in theory is implemented in practice. there are still several scourges to be tackled: cyberbullying, child abuse, child pornography, genital mutilation, among others. some 170 million children are subjected to child labor and a quarter of a million are child soldiers. nothing justifies or can justify these inhuman and horrible atrocities. this resolution makes an important contribution to the guarantee, safeguard and protection of the rights of the child by formulating a set of priority recommendations for the eradication of these terrible scourges, with a view to the development of future generations.
in writing. - we agree that the united nations convention on the rights of the child and its optional protocols constitute the standard in the promotion and protection of children's rights, encompassing a wide range of international legal standards relating to the protection and welfare of children. the resolution recognises that although progress has been made since the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child 25 years ago, these same rights continue to be violated in many parts of the world, including eu member states. however, the resolution does not go into the depth of the underlying factors that are at the root of all these violations. there's no mention of austerity. there is no mention of reducing social spending by the states. there is no mention of the devastating effects of the policies of economic liberalization, of the deregulation of industrial relations. without this diagnosis, there can be no effective remedies.
in writing. the convention on the rights of the child was adopted in november 1989 and ratified by portugal a year later. we know that the convention, like the other human rights instruments, is not being applied in many countries of the world. in several eu countries, children's rights are being undermined by the austerity policies imposed by the european union, which leads to the deprivation of various rights, such as the right to education, health, housing and healthy food, adequate for their physical and mental growth. only an urgent break with these policies will prevent a worsening of the living conditions of children and their rights. we welcome the adoption of our amendments which advocate the extension of the public network of kindergartens, day nurseries and public services providing recreational activities for children, the increase of maternity and paternity rights, the guarantee of compulsory secondary education free of charge for all as a basic condition for the exercise of the right to equal opportunities. the psd and cds meps, contrary to statements about the need to reverse the current demographic problems in portugal, voted against amendments aimed at supporting children and their families.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their views on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i support this resolution because i believe that the remaining digital divide needs to be tackled by the member states and the institutions through a comprehensive strategy of effective implementation of the digital market in order to stimulate competitiveness, competition and job creation. developments involve risks in the area of data protection and privacy of communications, which should not and cannot be ignored. respect for fundamental rights, data protection, consumer rights and human dignity must always, as in any policy, be at the heart of its structure.
the digital single market is one of the evolving areas which, while posing challenges, offers opportunities for significant efficiency gains, which could amount to €260 billion per year, and can therefore help europe to emerge from the crisis. it is one of the most innovative sectors of the economy and therefore plays an important role in the competitiveness of the european economy, but not only offers economic advantages, but also has a profound impact on the daily cultural, social and political lives of eu consumers and citizens. however, this market cannot be competitive without high-speed broadband and telecommunications networks in all regions of the eu, including peripheral regions, and it is essential that member states make sustained efforts to apply and implement the existing regulation as part of an overall strategy. it is recalled that e-commerce alone could save consumers more than €11.7 billion a year if they could choose from the full range of eu goods and services whenever they shop online.
the aim of this resolution is to remove all obstacles to the development of the digital single market, i.e. the liberalisation of the digital market, based on a comprehensive strategy which the eu believes is the panacea for the ills of the crisis of capitalism, and thus create economic growth, jobs, and strengthen competitiveness and resilience in the world economy. more than theoretical considerations about the harmful effects of market liberalisation, reality shows that such liberalisation strategies lead to the closure of firms, concentration of wealth in countries and monopolies in liberalised sectors, weakening of national productions in member states with weaker economies, and consequently increased redundancies, increased exploitation of workers, who in the face of such levels of unemployment are forced to work for less pay and in worse working conditions. this is the result of the deepening of capitalist integration in its various aspects. we voted against the principle advocated in this resolution, against the ambition to liberalise the services market, against the current deregulation of the protection of personal data and individual freedoms. although the resolution lists as eu concerns issues such as net neutrality and would improve consumer protection, nothing is effectively guaranteed in this area.
it is necessary to remove the obstacles that hinder the development of the digital single market. only a developed digital single market, where everyone follows the rules, will allow the defence of all consumers. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the creation of a european digital single market offers the possibility of significant economic efficiency gains of up to eur 260 billion per year, and is a powerful engine for growth in the european economy, which could lead to a 4% increase in european gdp by 2020 and the creation of 3 million quality and sustainable jobs between 2013 and 2018. in addition, the development of cloud computing, in the context of bridging the digital divide and connectivity on the continent, must be accompanied by the defence of digital entrepreneurship, copyright and intellectual property, as well as the protection of consumer rights (the protection of personal data, the protection of children, access to information and the right to privacy). for these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the completion of the european digital single market and the removal of the obstacles that prevent its full realisation (such as the restriction of service providers to certain countries or territories, refusal to sell, automatic re-routing and unjustified diversification of sales conditions), as well as the protection of consumers' interests.
in writing. the digital single market (dsm) is a major bet for europe to grow faster economically and its completion would, according to some projections, allow europe's gdp to grow by a potential 4% by 2020. the market for computer applications alone is expected to triple revenues between 2013 and 2018, creating 3 million jobs over that period, and enabling the inclusion of all citizens in the digital age society, regardless of their income, social status and geographical location. however, as the european parliament stresses in its resolution, it is absolutely necessary to take account of the protection of consumer rights in this market. therefore, the protection of personal data and privacy, cybersecurity, security of electronic communications and networks must be a reality in the mud. as this report states, any legislative proposal on mud is expected to take into account the charter of fundamental rights of the european union so that the rights enshrined therein are fully protected in the digital domain. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the aim of this resolution is to liberalise the digital market, which the commission believes will create economic growth, jobs and strengthen competitiveness and resilience in the world economy. more than theoretical considerations about the harmful effects of market liberalisation, reality shows that such liberalisation strategies lead to the closure of firms, concentration of wealth in countries and monopolies in liberalised sectors, weakening of national productions in member states with weaker economies, and consequently increased redundancies, increased exploitation of workers who, faced with such levels of unemployment, are forced to work for less pay and in worse working conditions. we voted against the principle advocated in this resolution, against the ambition to liberalise the services market, against the current deregulation of the protection of personal data and individual freedoms.
the aim of this resolution is to put an end to all the obstacles that hinder the development of the digital single market, i.e. to defend the liberalisation of the digital market, based on a comprehensive strategy, which the eu believes is the panacea for the ills of the crisis of capitalism. more than theoretical considerations about the harmful effects of market liberalisation, reality shows that such liberalisation strategies lead to the closure of firms, concentration of wealth in countries and monopolies in liberalised sectors, weakening of national productions in member states with weaker economies, and consequently increased redundancies, increased exploitation of workers who, faced with such levels of unemployment, are forced to work for less pay and in worse working conditions. we voted against the principle advocated in this resolution, as well as against the ambition to liberalise the services market, the current deregulation on the protection of personal data and individual freedoms, which, although listed as eu concerns such as net neutrality and consumer protection, are not effectively guaranteed in this area. we voted in favour of the proposal to separate search engines from other commercial services, which could potentially reduce the concentration of economic activities.
in writing. around 1 billion people still suffer from hunger and at least 225 million children under five suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition worldwide, with an estimated 2.6 million of these children dying each year in developing countries. about two billion people worldwide, or one in three people in developing countries, suffer from chronic deficiencies in essential vitamins and minerals. nearly 20 million children still suffer from acute malnutrition in the last stage, whether in emergency or non-emergency situations, and only 10% of these children have access to treatment; that is why it is crucial that governments reaffirm the right to food and commit to halving, from 840 million to 420 million, the number of hungry and malnourished people by 2015. the eu should increase support for small and medium-sized sustainable agriculture producing mainly for local consumption and invest in participatory plans of national initiative to be implemented at local level in cooperation with farmers and their representatives, local and regional authorities and civil society organisations.
in writing. there is evidence that undernutrition and child malnutrition are a serious global problem, affecting mainly developing countries and countries in armed conflict, with dramatic consequences for the independence, development and sovereignty of these countries. it is also clear that this is not a reality unique to these countries, and the situation in the eu today is proof of this. more than pious statements, it is necessary to get to the root of their problems. this is where the waters part: in causes and solutions. the resolution says little or nothing about the promotion of the export-oriented agro-industrial model and its repercussions, such as the qualitative impoverishment of the world agricultural sector, the divestment of small and mediumsized farming, the abandonment of agriculture and the liquidation of family farming. nothing is said about market fundamentalism, privatization and liberalization policies and free trade. hunger and malnutrition among children are the result of an unjust, exploitative and oppressive system, which is historically condemned. mankind today has the knowledge and resources to eradicate these problems. but that will not happen within the framework of the system that generated them.
in writing. unfortunately, around 1 billion people still suffer from hunger and, globally, at least 225 million children under the age of five suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition, stunting due to chronic childhood and maternal malnutrition, and an estimated 2.6 million of these children die every year in developing countries. we must therefore channel our efforts to put an end to this scourge. as long as there's a hungry child in the world, we can't be satisfied.
in writing. article 25 of the 1948 universal declaration of human rights recognises the right to food as part of the right to an adequate standard of living. in addition, mdgs 1 and 4 aim to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger by 2015 and to reduce child mortality. but it turns out that worldwide some 225 million children under five suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition, and an estimated 2.6 million of these children die each year in developing countries. addressing this problem of child malnutrition requires an integrated approach and coordinated action across a range of policies and sectors, such as health, education, agriculture, access to water, energy and sanitation, as well as the responsible involvement of all international actors and other stakeholders. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which includes a set of proposals to combat this scourge, welcoming in particular the european commission's commitment to invest eur 3.5 billion between 2014 and 2020 to improve nutrition in some of the poorest countries in the world.
in writing. about 870 million people worldwide suffer from malnutrition - an estimated 1.2 billion by 2020. nearly a third of them are children. 97% of the undernourished people are in developing countries. i would remind you that the eradication of hunger was one of the millennium development goals for 2015. unfortunately, it will not be fulfilled. about 2.6 million children die every year in these countries. one in three people in developing countries suffer from chronic deficiency of essential vitamins and minerals. these are terribly overwhelming numbers. we are faced with malnutrition, the cause of diseases such as obesity and other associated diseases (e.g. diabetes, heart disease). for those suffering from malnutrition, the right to food is synonymous with the right to life. it seems clear to me that the eu and other global actors must seek viable solutions to the glaring inequality in the distribution of food resources on a global scale. i voted in favour of this report so that the commission and the member states will feel that the ep is calling for strong emergency policies, for investment and financial resources to be mobilised to pursue consistent long-term development strategies with a view to eliminating this scourge.
in writing. - according to the report, more than 165 million children under the age of five are malnourished or stunted and about 52 million suffer from severe malnutrition. the same report also says that the physical and cognitive damage caused by malnutrition during the first 1,000 days of a child's life is irreversible and cannot be treated. malnutrition affects the overall potential of society, reduces economic productivity and the potential income of nations. malnutrition is a direct consequence of our economic system that fails to put science and technology at the service of human beings, leaving both at the mercy of big business and finance capital. the result is glaring and growing inequality with hunger taking over ever larger portions of our territory. the solution to this problem is to increase humanitarian and charitable activities. it involves the overthrow of capitalism with its replacement by socialist society.
in writing. there is no disagreement that undernutrition and child malnutrition is a serious global problem, affecting mainly peripheral countries and countries with armed conflicts. it needs to be resolved urgently and effectively, but to do so we must get to the root of its problems. it is on this point, the causes and solutions, that we disagree with the majority of members of the european parliament. we believe that the main causes of this humanitarian disaster are the promotion of the export-oriented agro-industrial model, the large agro-food industry, the resulting qualitative impoverishment of the world agricultural sector, the divestment of agriculture and the policies of abandonment of agriculture and the liquidation of family farming and small and mediumsized farms, market fundamentalism, the policies of privatization and liberalization and free trade. hunger and malnutrition among children are the most vivid consequences of an unjust, exploitative and oppressive system, which is condemned by history.
i also asked to speak to stress the importance of the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora and the new statute of the european union. i have been following the implementation closely and i can attest to the fact that this instrument is progressively becoming more and more efficient. in my country, portugal, and more specifically in the azores, the region from which i come, the application of this instrument has given the authorities the legitimacy to act and, among the citizens, has increased awareness of the importance of safeguarding wild species. at the international level there is still a lot of illegal and unregulated activity. the use of wild fauna and flora in the name of voodoo pseudoscience, the collecting of living organisms, their use in jewellery, furniture and decorative objects, including clothing, must therefore be combated by all means. species like gorillas, rhinos, turtles, black corals, they remain endangered. the increase in global commercial transport and online sales must be matched by increasingly effective supervision and regulation. the european union must be intolerant of trade in endangered species. i therefore welcome the new statute of the european commission and hope that it will be an opportunity for greater proactivity.
we generally agree with this decision to accede to the convention. as has been said, thousands of endangered animal and plant species are at stake. my concern is with the means which the european union will put to the service of this important mission. without the means, without effective intervention on the ground, this accession to cites will not make much sense. in the european union, veterinary control services which played a decisive role in the control and eradication of many important diseases such as swine fever, tuberculosis, etc., have in some cases been dismantled in some member states. i therefore call attention to the need to strengthen the means to combat illegal trafficking of these species, in particular by strengthening border inspection posts, improving the training of veterinary staff - within the framework of the food and veterinary office - and, if possible, in collaboration with the european veterinary federation, and it is equally important to give the member states the means to protect their exclusive economic zones.
the commission's proposal on fuel quality is in contradiction with its rhetoric on combating climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy. it is a welcome proposal for projects to exploit unconventional fuels, although the relevant environmental issues arising in this area underestimate the associated greenhouse gas emissions, which are alarmingly high. we've said it before and we'll say it again: the reality of the inexorable depletion of conventional and unconventional fossil fuel reserves and the challenges and shocks necessarily associated with the transition require that the remaining fossil reserves on a world scale, as an imperative of humanity itself, be managed with immense wisdom, which means, first of all, that they are managed with great parsimony. neither this proposal nor the general action of the european union is subsidiary to this objective. we recall the importance of adopting the 'exhaustion protocol' presented in uppsala in 2002 and in lisbon in 2005 with a view to ensuring sound and fair management of these resources and mitigating their shortfall.
the struggle of road, freight and passenger transport workers and their representative organisations to improve respect for their labour rights, working hours and rest periods has already been a long one. a struggle full of various clashes and difficulties, created either by unscrupulous employers or by a european legislative framework more interested in promoting the sacrosanct free competition and the inevitable monopolistic concentration that always happens to it than in properly protecting and defending the health and safety of these workers. the exploitative spirit which has long been felt in this sector also accompanies the steps taken towards the completion of the internal road transport market. here too the contradiction between the wonderful promises that the internal market would bring about and the harsh reality faced by workers in their daily lives is glaring. we have been, are and will be with these workers. in the fight against the race to the bottom in the field of rights and for convergence in the progress of social and labour standards.
mr president, i would also like to thank and pay a special tribute to commissioner carlos moedas. i have had the opportunity in recent months to attend several meetings on the evaluation of mediterranean fisheries resources. all of them were unanimous in concluding that knowledge on the populations, biology and ecology of commercially exploited species is lacking. in my view, this situation is not due to a lack of research and innovation but to a lack of coordination and transparency in international scientific cooperation with third countries. the mediterranean's marine research institutes are excellent and the research vessels are on par with those found in other large sea basins, but the functioning of international scientific management organisations, such as the barcelona convention and the commission for mediterranean science, has shown that there are geopolitical barriers. in the mediterranean context, we must focus on north-south cooperation based on dialogue and transparency of data. the mediterranean research and innovation partnership will be totally lacking if the southern cornerstones of this great basin are missing. there are good examples of the application of article 181 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, such as the bonus project in the baltic sea. but the baltic is very different from the mediterranean, it has a more diverse political geography. i take this opportunity to draw attention to the enlargement, or the second suez canal. this process will lead to more marine pollution, including many alien species. the expected impact goes far beyond the promoting country, with consequences throughout the mediterranean, as indeed the present suez canal has had and still has. for this reason, i call for a real environmental impact study to be carried out, one which is holistic, comprehensive, in-depth, international and, most importantly, consequential. blue growth requires not just investment in the marine environment, it essentially requires intelligence in the precautionary approach to our common future. this is another reason why prima is a priority.
mr president, this is a welcome partnership, not a completely new one, and we believe that it should be valued, especially if it is based on the fundamental values which should always prevail in the european union's relations with its neighbours: co-responsibility, mutual interest and shared advantages. however, i fear that these figures may be nothing more than a dead letter, and i would like to ask a few questions in this context. firstly, how was the choice of the water and food sectors to be favoured made, and how are our neighbours involved in this process? i would also like to know what mechanisms are in place to ensure equal participation by these countries, thus avoiding projects serving only one side. i would also like to know what mechanisms are in place to ensure that the people of these countries are the main beneficiaries of these projects, thus avoiding the sucking-out effect of the limited scientific capacity in these countries, leaving them even poorer in the end. finally, what guarantee do we have that this programme will not be used to finance projects in countries such as israel, which are outside the scope of international law and which have benefited in the past from the framework programme which has helped, as we know, to develop their arsenal of war, or to consolidate situations of occupation of nations, as is the case with morocco's occupation of western sahara?
mr president, the strengthening of cooperation links in the field of science and technology with the mediterranean countries is a desirable direction. from resource efficiency to biodiversity conservation to energy issues, the challenges are undeniable and surely best tackled together. we are aware of our reservations about the scientific policy of the european union - deep reservations and differences. the partnership we advocate with these countries cannot, of course, fail to take them into account. the countries concerned, both those in the southern mediterranean and the member states concerned, must play a decisive role in the design of this north-south cooperation framework and in the definition of its priorities, means and objectives. issues such as the necessary increase in the appropriations for the framework programme and their reorientation towards the public interest are obviously central to this partnership.
mr president, it has been five years since the so-called eurozone crisis erupted. the crisis, which has no end in sight, confirms what those of us who have been fighting against economic and monetary union and the single currency from the outset have warned about, and what life has confirmed are the devastating consequences of. economic dependence and political subordination: these are the consequences of a decade and a half of the euro. this is a path without future, which the people will defeat by struggle. a serious discussion is needed on the clear advantages of the dissolution of economic and monetary union and the end of the stability pact - instruments which must be replaced by intergovernmental agreements between states which freely and sovereignly express the wish to continue on the path of economic and monetary integration. the solution should provide for a programme of support for those countries whose membership of the euro has proved unsustainable, together with adequate compensation for the damage caused, in the context of a negotiated exit from the single currency and the essential recovery of monetary sovereignty.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it failed because the new rules were not effective, because the impact on economic policies was more unemployment, was less growth, was more macroeconomic imbalances, and because there was no economic consolidation of the eurozone. the commission's economic governance proposal was therefore a failure. it's a piece of crap. it's garbage and it's toxic garbage. what you and the commission should have done was to start over, to start from scratch. and i will tell you, commissioner, what the ultimate objectives of the economic governance programme of these two countries were: controlling the debt. is she more in control? i'm not going to. it increased. control the deficit. is he more in control? i'm not going to. that control failed too. the european union is a global economy. you missed! there are more imbalances. cut the cost. the only way to reduce spending was to destroy what was left of the welfare state. so you failed. have more stability. you failed. have more growth. you failed. a budgetary treaty which is a total failure because it is permanent austerity. the commission is now talking about flexibility, allowing member states who can deduct from the deficit calculation the investment they can make. we've always defended that. you have always refused. and now you are coming forward, now that our accounts are destroyed, now that the peripheral member states have not a penny to invest, because all the pennies go to the interest on the debt, now you are coming with the flexibility. flexibility for whom? commissioner, any evaluation must be serious, and to be serious, it must take account of the results and not blind goals. the results are simple: economic and social destruction of the european union. these are the results. commissioner, i want you to do something very simple: tear it. pull it off. it's a piece of crap. start from scratch, please.
madam president, for us economic governance, with the six-pack and the two-pack and the budgetary treaty, is another mechanism designed to align the member states with the interests of the big companies that are effectively in charge of this europe. it is objective reality that points us to the class nature of this european integration. austerity, budgetary austerity, so-called structural reforms only serve the same old people who feed off the crisis and the exploitation of the working people. i have three questions. firstly, how do you explain the fact that the overwhelming majority of member states, 24 out of 28, have been in breach of these rules which we consider to be completely inadequate? secondly, the commission says that there is progress. overall, debt and deficits are falling. if so, why are we still in crisis and with no prospect of getting out of it? thirdly, how do you explain that, throughout this crisis, non-euro member states have outperformed the euro area? in other words, countries that have chosen to maintain their monetary sovereignty grow more and owe less.
madam president, my response to the commissioner is to say: yes, the new economic governance framework has solved some problems but has also created other problems. europe is now trapped in a kind of stagnation: high unemployment, high debt, also the risk of deflation; and second, europe is divided by big economic social divergences which are also becoming political divergences. the commission has recognised the situation in the recent annual growth survey, but now the commission should address these problems by adjusting this economic governance framework. i believe that the first adjustment is to create more room for manoeuvre for investments in the stability and growth pact and, first of all, to make sure that member states’ contributions to these new funds for strategic investment are neutralised with regard to the stability and growth pact. secondly, we need to have a more balanced macroeconomic surveillance looking not only at the economic problems but at the social problems. finally, mr vice-president, frankly i do not believe there is a real solution to bring down these divergences we have in the eurozone if we are not able to move ahead with this agenda to complete economic and monetary union. this is about finishing the banking union but also about bringing up a real fiscal capacity in the eurozone. so this is also a task for you, mr vice-president. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– mr coburn, i really believe there is a problem – but the problem is not with the euro. i think the euro can be a major force in the european member states. the problem is with the organisation of the economy and monetary union, which is unbalanced. this is clearly identified now, and that is why we need to complete the banking union to have a proper economic coordination with surplus countries and deficit countries pushing for growth. we also need to build up fiscal capacity. this is what is missing now.
ask him about the blue card procedure. mr president, mr hökmark, i understand that you believe in these rules and that you are referring to the need to reduce the deficit and the debt. the deficit can even be reduced by cutting public spending and eliminating the welfare state. that's what's been done. what i ask you is: what measures do you see to bring down the debt, because the debts keep on increasing? and that's what's going to keep happening, is the debt going up. if you have so many measures, how do you plan to reduce the debt without restructuring it?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, coordination, sharing, synchronisation and maximum transparency are fundamental to the governance of the european union, but prevention is crucial. i take up the popular saying that prevention is better than cure, and this is a way of saying, in portuguese: troika, never again. with this legislation, the six-pack and the two-pack, we are strengthening credibility and trust in space, in the institutions, in the european union. it allows problems to be identified and corrected before they become unresolvable imbalances. prevention and corrective action promote responsibility and therefore solidarity. accumulating deficits and adding to debt in an unsustainable way has a price that we all pay, and especially future generations. but we need a flexible and intelligent interpretation of the six-pack and the two-pack. they must be able to protect economic growth and employment and competitiveness, without jeopardizing the credibility of the commitments. in addition, social cohesion, territorial cohesion is another concern that the flexible and intelligent interpretation of these six-pack and two-pack should allow.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman plays a very important role in relations between citizens and the european institutions. it is through it that the 500 million european citizens can make their complaints and concerns known in their relations with the various european institutions. i am sure that the newly elected ombudsman will carry out her mandate in an exemplary manner, so i wish her the very best of luck. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the re-election of emily o'reilly as european ombudsman, considering that the said candidate has been performing her duties properly since taking office in october 2013.
‒ i voted in favour of the re-election of emilly o'reilly as european ombudsman, following the work she has been doing since october 2013, and i wish her a fruitful and committed mandate in the service of the european citizens. emilly o'reilly was elected with 569 votes out of 678 cast, which demonstrates the confidence of this parliament both in the work it has been doing and in the objectives it has set itself, as expressed in its new strategy towards 2019, available on the european ombudsman's website. over the past year, i have highlighted his role in access to the us ttip documents and in the lobbyists' transparency register with the european institutions and in the composition of the commission's expert groups.
in writing. ‒ at the beginning of each parliamentary term, the president shall, immediately after his election or in the cases provided for at the end of paragraph 8 of this article, issue a call for applications for the appointment of the ombudsman, setting a deadline for the submission of applications. this appeal shall be published in the official journal of the european union. this is standard procedure. we recognize qualities in the candidate. we have nothing to object to.
‒ under the refit programme for regulatory adequacy and effectiveness, the european commission is planning measures to simplify european legislation and reduce regulatory costs, thus contributing to a clear, stable, predictable regulatory framework conducive to growth and jobs. in this connection, it seems to me that it is appropriate to repeal directive 93/5/eec, which ensured the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support from the member states and organising cooperation with the national bodies responsible for food safety, since, by subsequent legislation, the european food safety authority is the body responsible in these fields.
in writing. under the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit), the commission has committed itself to ensuring a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens. the establishment of the authority has made it competent for the promotion of scientific cooperation with member states and national competent bodies operating in the areas of the authority's tasks and gives it powers to act in close cooperation with the competent bodies of the member states, and member states should cooperate with the authority in the pursuit of its tasks. the repeal of the previous directive therefore makes perfect sense.
‒ this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance of the member states to the commission and their cooperation in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs, is part of the ongoing european commission programme for regulatory fitness and effectiveness (refit), launched in 2012, where the commission commits itself to repealing outdated and redundant legislation. the purpose of that directive was to promote scientific support by member states and to organise cooperation with the competent national bodies on scientific matters relating to food safety, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food, which in 2002 was replaced in its scientific tasks by the european food safety authority (efsa). furthermore, pursuant to regulation (ec) no 178/2002, the efsa has also become the competent body for the promotion of scientific cooperation with the member states and the competent national bodies operating in the areas of competence of the authority, rendering directive 93/5/eec obsolete. this is an eminently technical report, to which the simplified procedure (article 50 (1)) has been applied and which we voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, the commission launched the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) to ensure a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens. in this context, the commission has undertaken to repeal rules which have become superfluous or obsolete. this is the case of council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993, which is now repealed. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 aimed to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support from the member states and by organising cooperation with the competent national bodies on scientific matters relating to food safety. however, pursuant to regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council of 28 january 2002, the tasks of the scientific committee for food were transferred to the european food safety authority and, consequently, commission decision 97/579/ec of 23 july 1997 setting up that committee was repealed. directive 93/5/eec has thus become obsolete and should therefore be repealed, as proposed by the commission. i voted in favour.
‒ the scientific committee for food was initially set up in 1974 (later amended by decision 97/579/ec, which created scientific committees in the field of consumer health and food safety). in 1993, council directive 93/5/eec was adopted to make the committee more effective by promoting scientific support from the member states and by organising cooperation with the competent national bodies on scientific questions relating to food safety. with the adoption of regulation (ec) no 178/2002, the functions of the scientific committee for food were transferred to the european food safety authority (efsa) and decision 97/579/ec was subsequently repealed. directive 93/5/eec has thus become obsolete, leading to the presentation of the proposal from the european parliament and the council which gave rise to the report voted on today. given that this proposal for a directive was taken up by parliament in this report and drafted under the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) - where the commission has committed itself to clear and predictable regulation for businesses, workers and citizens by repealing rules which have become superfluous and obsolete - i voted in favour of it.
‒ this report is part of the european commission's ongoing regulatory fitness and performance (refit) programme, launched in 2012, where the commission commits to repeal outdated and redundant legislation. the purpose of that directive was to promote scientific support by member states and to organise cooperation with the competent national bodies on scientific matters relating to food safety, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food, which in 2002 was replaced in its scientific tasks by the european food safety authority (efsa). the authority, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 178/2002, became the competent body for the promotion of scientific cooperation with the member states and the competent national bodies operating in the areas of competence of the authority, rendering directive 93/5/eec obsolete.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 on the assistance of the member states to the commission and their cooperation in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs, because it fulfils the objective of ensuring the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support from the member states and by organising cooperation with the competent national bodies on scientific questions relating to food safety.
‒ this report is part of the ongoing european commission's regulatory fitness and performance (refit) programme, launched in 2012, where the commission commits to repeal outdated and redundant legislation. the purpose of the directive was to promote scientific support from member states and to organise cooperation with the competent national bodies on scientific matters relating to food safety, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food, which was replaced in its scientific tasks by the european food safety authority (efsa) in 2002. furthermore, pursuant to regulation (ec) no 178/2002, the efsa has also become the competent body for the promotion of scientific cooperation with the member states and the competent national bodies operating in the areas of competence of the authority, rendering directive 93/5/eec obsolete.
‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), in force since 1975, is an important international instrument for the protection of endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. the original text of the convention limited participation in cites to states, with the european union as an observer only. the gaborone amendment, adopted on 30 april 1983, enabled membership of economic and regional integration organisations consisting of sovereign states and empowered to negotiate, conclude and implement international agreements in matters covered by the convention, and entered into force on 29 november 2013. i support the eu's accession to cites, which will make the eu's legal status more transparent vis-à-vis the other parties to the convention. the eu will also be adequately represented at cites meetings and will participate fully in the work of the convention, in accordance with the treaties. accession is therefore a logical and necessary step to ensure that the european union is in a position to pursue the objectives of environmental policy.
the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an important international instrument for the protection of endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. it currently has 178 parties (including all eu member states), covers some 35 000 species and ensures that international trade in specimens of these species does not endanger their survival. the european union's accession becomes important for the work that the convention has been doing, recommending that the current practice be adopted when someone becomes an effective party: the annual contribution corresponding to 2.5% of the total amount allocated to the cites trust fund (about 115 000 euros in 2015) reducing accordingly the share of the member states in these contributions, a situation that deserved my vote in favour.
‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international agreement whose objective is to ensure that international trade in species of wild fauna and flora does not threaten their survival, and thus constitutes an important instrument for the conservation of endangered species, particularly those of commercial interest, which as such should be defended and enhanced. the success of cites depends on the effective implementation of the agreed recommendations. the european union had observer status in cites. at the second extraordinary meeting of cites cop (1983), the gaborone amendment to the convention was agreed, allowing regional economic integration organisations made up of sovereign states to become parties to the cites convention. the aim of this recommendation is to approve the accession of the european union to cites in order to enable it to participate fully in the work of the convention and to legally bind the eu and the member states to the implementation and enforcement provided for in the convention. it should be noted that the rights and obligations of the member states under cites will not be affected by the accession of the eu, which will pay a quota to the organisation.
‒ i agree with the eu's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). cites is an important international instrument for the protection of endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. cites entered into force in 1975 and currently has 178 parties (including all eu member states). it covers some 35 000 species, which are listed in the three appendices according to the degree of protection they require, and ensures that international trade in specimens of these species does not endanger their survival. this convention is very important in the fight against illegal trade in protected and endangered species, which is why i am voting in favour.
‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) entered into force in 1975 with the aim of protecting certain endangered species of wild fauna and flora against overexploitation due to international trade. it currently has 178 parties, including all eu member states. since the initial text of cites limited states to participation in cites, the eu has hitherto had the status of a mere observer. with the entry into force of the gaborone amendment on 29 november 2003, it became possible for regional economic integration organisations made up of sovereign states with competence to negotiate, conclude and implement international agreements in matters covered by the convention to accede to cites. however, since the matters covered by cites (environmental protection and trade) fall within the eu's competence and its accession to cites will enable it to participate fully in the work of the convention, ensuring the conditions for the pursuit of its environmental policy objectives, i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the eu's accession to cites.
‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international convention that brings together 178 countries, including all eu member states, and covers some 35 000 species, which are under a system of prior licensing for their trade. cites is therefore a highly relevant instrument for the protection, control and monitoring of trade in these species. initially, participation in cites was limited to states, with the european union having observer status. however, a recent amendment to article 21 of the convention allows membership of regional economic integration organisations made up of sovereign states and endowed with the powers to negotiate, conclude and implement international agreements on cites matters which their member states have transferred to them. since the convention's fields of action concern the protection of the environment and international trade, the former being a competence shared with the member states and the latter an exclusive competence of the union, i consider the eu's accession to the cites convention to be a logical and very welcome step, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we broadly agree with this decision to accede to the convention. as has been said, the preservation of some 3000 animal species and 40 000 plant species is at stake. my concern is with the means which the eu will put to the service of this important mission. without the means, without effective intervention on the ground, this accession to cites will not make much sense. in the eu, public veterinary control services which played a decisive role in the eradication of several zoonotic diseases such as tuberculosis and swine fever in portugal have been dismantled in some countries. the need to strengthen the means to combat illegal trade in these species is therefore emphasized. in particular, it is necessary to strengthen border inspection posts by providing them with human and technical resources; to improve the training of veterinary staff within the food and veterinary office, possibly with the european veterinary federation; it is also necessary to give the member states the means to monitor their eezs, which has not been possible in portugal, given the austerity measures, despite having the largest eez in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european union's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). the eu's accession to cites was a consistent and necessary step forward in ensuring that the european union is fully equipped to pursue its environmental policy objectives. accession will not only allow the commission to express, on behalf of the european union, a coherent eu position on cites matters, but also to participate effectively in the negotiations of the conferences of the parties. this accession will enable the commission to negotiate on behalf of the european union and to work actively towards a compromise solution balanced between the positions of the 28 member states. in addition, by becoming a party to cites, the european union will have formal responsibilities, having to be accountable to the other parties for the implementation and enforcement of the convention.
‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international agreement whose objective is to ensure that international trade in species of wild fauna and flora does not threaten their survival, thus constituting an important instrument for the conservation of endangered species, particularly those of commercial interest, which as such should be defended and enhanced. the aim of this recommendation is to approve the accession of the european union to cites in order to enable it to participate fully in the work of the convention and to legally bind the eu and the member states to the implementation and enforcement provided for in the convention. it should be noted that the rights and obligations of the member states under cites will not be affected by eu accession, and we therefore agree with the recommendation.
‒ europe is building its own global navigation satellite system (gnss) with the most advanced technology, designed to enable accurate and guaranteed positioning for all types of civil applications, including car navigation, mobile phones, maritime, road, rail and air transport. this system provides free satellite radio navigation signals with ten times the accuracy of the gps system. this agreement shall promote, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the parties in the framework of the eu and morocco's contributions to a global satellite navigation system for civil use. i therefore support this agreement which brings mutual benefits, reciprocal opportunities for participation in cooperation activities, timely exchange of information, adequate protection of intellectual property rights and free trade of gnss equipment in the territories of the parties.
the galileo programme is the european radio navigation and satellite positioning programme, which aims to provide the european union with a navigation technology independent of the us gps and the russian glonass, in a sector which has become central to economic development. therefore, the purpose of this cooperation agreement is to facilitate and promote cooperation between the union and the kingdom of morocco in order to collect contributions from both parties to a global navigation satellite system (gnss). i therefore voted in favour of the above recommendation, taking into account the leverage role that a european gnss can play in the european economy and taking into account the advantages of greater precision and security that this system offers over others.
‒ the council proposal for a cooperation agreement on the global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between the european union and the kingdom of morocco is at issue. the gnss system has undeniable utility and potential. the strong dependence on the american gps system is undesirable and limiting, and it carries obvious dangers. we have some reservations, however, about the fact that the system's exclusively civilian use is not fully guaranteed and about the possibility of its use for military purposes - a situation which has been warned about by various peace organizations in various countries. we have already made this point on several occasions. in this case, a cooperation agreement is proposed with morocco, which is responsible for the illegal occupation of the territory of western sahara, which oppresses the people of this territory and refuses to accept un resolutions on their right to self-determination. we therefore voted against this report, taking into account that this agreement may cover occupied territories over which morocco has no sovereignty under international law.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this agreement is to promote, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the parties in the framework of the contributions of the european union and morocco to a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use. the sectors open to cooperation activities in the field of satellite navigation and timekeeping covered by the agreement are the following: scientific research, industrial production, training, application, service and market development, trade, radio spectrum issues, integrity, standardisation and homologation. this is a very important agreement for the development of industrial and research relations between the two countries, and i therefore vote in favour.
‒ contacts on a participation of morocco in the galileo programme started on 24 march 2004. following a round of bilateral talks, on 13 october the moroccan minister for equipment and transport sent a letter to the director-general for energy and transport of the european commission confirming morocco's intention to conclude a cooperation agreement with the eu on the satellite radio navigation system for civil use. the european commission, on the basis of a negotiating mandate conferred by the council on 21 april 2005, then entered into negotiations and the agreement was signed on 12 december 2006, in accordance with the council decision of 27 november 2006 authorising the signature. whereas the said cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and the kingdom of morocco will allow for the strengthening of joint activities in important sectors such as scientific research, industrial production and training, to the benefit of the citizens, industry and scientific communities of both parties; i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the celebration of the european year.
‒ morocco has been participating in the european union's galileo programme since december 2006. it also has a scientific and technical cooperation agreement with the eu and is part of the european neighbourhood policy, so it can, if it is interested, join the new framework programme for research and innovation - horizon 2020. it also has expertise in space technologies and applications and aims to develop the use of satellite radio navigation in its territory, the western mediterranean and west africa. it also adds that there are close cooperation relations between several european and moroccan companies in the space sector, which enhances the possibility of extension to other sectors of activity. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
‒ a proposal from the council for a cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between the european community and the kingdom of morocco is at issue. morocco maintains an illegal occupation in western sahara. it oppresses its people and refuses to accept un resolutions regarding that people's right to self-determination. we therefore voted against this agreement because we do not recognise the legitimacy of the kingdom of morocco to negotiate treaties which could potentially cover occupied territories belonging to western sahara.
‒ the council's proposal for a cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between the european community and the kingdom of morocco is at issue. morocco maintains an illegal occupation in western sahara. it oppresses its people and refuses to accept un resolutions on the right of that people to self-determination, which is why we voted against this agreement, because it does not recognize the legitimacy of the kingdom of morocco to negotiate treaties that could potentially cover occupied territories belonging to western sahara.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine was signed in copenhagen on 4 july 2007 for an initial period ending on 31 december 2012. in march 2011, the council decided to renew the agreement for a further period of five years until november 2014. i support this initiative which recommends the renewal of this agreement for a further period of five years, which will allow the continuity of scientific and technological relations between the european union and ukraine to be maintained. the renewal of this agreement will enable both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in scientific and technological areas of common interest and will contribute to the exchange of knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific communities and citizens. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocity of access to each party's programmes and activities, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property, equitable sharing of intellectual property rights and the exploitation of results.
in writing. approves the renewal of the cooperation agreement and the sharing of specific knowledge and know-how in the fields of science and technology, areas which are clearly beneficial for scientific progress. the commission notes that the agreement between the parties to the agreement on the transfer of the rights of use of the ip and the rights of use of the ip is not a new agreement, but rather a new agreement, which is not a new agreement, and that the new agreement is not a new agreement. the interests of the european union are safeguarded through the review carried out for this new agreement, which allows the commission to regularly monitor all actions under this agreement, in particular through the collection of data and analysis of performance indicators. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation to renew the said agreement.
the first agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and ukraine was signed in july 2002, approved by the council on 6 february 2003. it was an agreement whose content was based on areas of cooperation in environmental and climate research, biomedical, health, research in the field of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, industrial technologies, raw materials and production, as well as research in the field of transport, social sciences and training, including exchange of scientists. the content of the renewed agreement is identical to the agreement which expired in november 2014. it will enable both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest and will allow for a greater exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of know-how. we are in principle in favour of establishing cooperation relations in this field. however, the situation in ukraine cannot be ignored. the illegitimate and undemocratic character of the ukrainian government and the coup that brought it to power, as well as the campaigns of hatred, persecution and violence it has promoted, with the systematic and brutal trampling on of fundamental rights and freedoms, would justify not renewing this agreement at this time.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is identical to the one currently in force and to the one in force on 7 november 2014. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocity of access to each party's programmes and activities in relation to the subject matter of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property and fair sharing of intellectual property rights, and effective exploitation of results. the renewal of the agreement will allow the generation of scientific knowledge leading to market access opportunities. that is why i am voting in favour.
‒ taking into account that the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine expired on 7 november 2014, i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the renewal of the agreement, in order to ensure that the parties can continue to exchange scientific knowledge and transfer know-how for the benefit of their scientific communities, industry and citizens.
‒ the eu-ukraine agreement on scientific and technological cooperation focuses on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal access to each party's programmes and activities, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property (and fair sharing thereof), and effective exploitation of results, principles pursued by the european union. the renewal of this agreement, which is of the same content as the previous one, will allow for intensified and improved cooperation in scientific and technological areas of common interest, as well as the continuation of the exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific communities, industry and citizens, leading to market access opportunities. it will also allow regular monitoring by the commission services. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation.
in the light of the recent events in the ukraine, the european union has decided to support the coup d'état in ukraine, in defiance of international law, in a move that is entirely in line with the united states and nato. as a result of this intervention, the eu had to provide financial support to the illegal government of ukraine, despite the numerous crimes committed against civilian populations, both by the government and by the forces supporting it. we have had to sign a trade agreement with ukraine (recently extended for another year), which opens our borders to products produced in that country, particularly those exported to russia, without reciprocity for european production. it has had to endure a russian embargo on european exports of various agri-food products, with enormous losses for producers. finally, it is paying ukraine's accumulated debts from the purchase of natural gas from russian companies, under the threat of jeopardizing gas supplies to the countries of central europe. for our part, we do not recognize any legitimacy to the group of people who have seized power in this country in defiance of international law. in this sense, we will not sign this agreement, or any other, until institutional legality has been restored.
‒ the agreement on the european economic area (eea agreement) was signed on 2 may 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. the agreement provides for the introduction of eu legislation on the four freedoms - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - in all countries that make up the eea. the agreement includes cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. the agreement guarantees citizens and economic operators in the eea equal rights and obligations in the internal market. this proposal constitutes the legal instrument for the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the eea and the additional protocol thereto to the agreement with the kingdom of norway and the european union on the norwegian financial mechanism for the period 2014 to 2019, following the participation of croatia in the eea. croatia's participation in the eea is therefore a natural consequence of its accession to the eu on 1 july 2013. it is therefore natural that, more than a year after its accession to the eu, the commission and the council should take the necessary legal measures to make croatia's participation in the eea possible.
croatia's accession to the european union, which took place about a year ago, should have as a natural consequence its participation in the european economic area, which calls for the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. in addition, the agreement includes cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, collectively referred to as horizontal and framework policies. it is therefore quite normal that, more than a year after accession, the commission and the council have taken the necessary legal measures to make it possible for croatia to participate in this european area, assuming its full status as a member state.
‒ this report recommends approving the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the european economic area (eea). in view of croatia's accession to the european union, the conclusion of various agreements and protocols is necessary to bring about the country's participation in the eea, i.e. this is one of the consequences of accession, which naturally follows from it. this is therefore a highly technical report. since our general position on the accession of new countries to the european union is well known, without ignoring the nature and meaning of integration and the enlargement processes, it is up to each people to decide freely and sovereignly whether or not to join the eu, which led to an abstention in the accession process of croatia, it is natural that the same sense of vote should follow in relation to the decisions or procedures that fell within the framework of the normal consequences of such accession. that is why we abstained in this report too.
‒ the eea agreement provides for the introduction of eu legislation on the four freedoms the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital in all countries within the eea. in addition, the agreement includes cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, collectively referred to as horizontal and framework policies. the agreement guarantees citizens and economic operators of the eea equal rights and obligations in the internal market. croatia's participation in the european economic area is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. it is therefore quite normal that, more than a year after accession, the commission and the council have taken the necessary legal measures to make this participation possible. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the european economic area, which has been in force since 1 january 1994, brings together the eu member states, iceland, liechtenstein and norway in a single market, providing for the extension of eu legislation on the four freedoms (the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) to the above mentioned european free trade association member countries, as well as cooperation between the parties in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. as croatia has acceded to the eu with effect from 1 july 2013, it is now necessary, in accordance with its act of accession, to ensure its participation in the european economic area. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area and the three related agreements (additional protocols between the kingdom of norway and the european union on a norwegian financial mechanism for the period 2009-2014; between the european economic community and the republic of iceland; and between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway).
‒ the agreement on the european economic area allowed the three efta countries that were not part of the single market (iceland, norway and liechtenstein) to join. it entered into force on 1 january 1994 and comprises the 27 member states (except croatia) plus the three abovementioned countries. the eea agreement clearly states in article 128 that when a country accedes to the european union, it automatically applies for eea membership, leading to its enlargement. croatia thus undertakes to fulfil the conditions laid down in the act of accession to the eea. the commission and the council have also already adopted the necessary legal measures to make this participation of croatia possible. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that this participation is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu and i am in favour of this new member state also being covered by the european rules governing the four freedoms of the single market - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - and its integration into the so-called horizontal and framework policies, thus ensuring full equality of rights and obligations in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and the three members of the european free trade association iceland, liechtenstein and norway into a single market. the agreement includes cooperation in important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. the agreement guarantees citizens and economic operators of the eea equal rights and obligations in the internal market. croatia's participation in the european economic area is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. we consider it normal that this question should be raised and we have nothing to object to, provided that the will of the croatian people is respected.
‒ this report recommends approving the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the european economic area (eea). in view of croatia's accession to the european union, the conclusion of various agreements and protocols is necessary to implement the participation of croatia in the eea. although we believe that the process of accession to the eu has had negative consequences for the peoples of europe, we also believe that it is up to those peoples to decide, and so we have the same vote here on decisions or procedures that fall within the normal consequences of such accession. that is why we abstained in this report too.
the authorization given to france to exempt or reduce excise duties on certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions (with the exception of saint martin) to compensate for the disadvantages of the outermost regions concerned and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development makes perfect sense. therefore, the creation of a new legal framework for the excise duty for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, allowing to identify the products to which the exemptions or reductions of the duty may apply, was necessary. my vote in favour is based on the fact that this measure is justified and aims to continue to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, without undermining the coherence of the internal market and the eu legal order.
in writing. other on 10 february 2004, the council adopted a decision authorising france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the excise duty on certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions, in order to compensate for the constraints to which they are subject, such as remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, small market size and poorly developed export activity affecting the outermost regions. france has now requested that a differentiated taxation system identical to the one mentioned above be maintained until 31 december 2020. however, the commission intends to examine the list of products to which the new system will apply, which will make the procedure time-consuming and incompatible with the expiry date of the decision. in order to allow the commission to finalise its assessment, the council decision extends the previous decision for a further six months. when the commission concludes the evaluation, the establishment of the new legal framework for the maritime tax for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020 shall be followed up. we voted in favour, taking into account our position in principle of defending the specific features of the outermost regions and the consequent need for positive discrimination.
‒ the octroi de mer is an indirect tax applicable to the supply and import of goods to the french outermost regions. in principle, it applies equally to products which are produced locally and those which are not (products from metropolitan france, from other member states or from third countries). the aim of this proposal is to establish the legal framework applicable to the tax on the granting of a licence from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020. it further extends the validity of decision 2004/162/ec for a further period of six months in order to allow france time to transpose the provisions of the new council decision into national law and establishes the new legal framework applicable from 1 july 2015 to 31 december 2020. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ council decision 2004/162/ec of 10 february 2004 (as amended by council decisions 2008/439/ec of 9 june 2008, 448/2011/eu of 19 july 2011 and 2014/378/eu of 12 june) authorises france to apply, until 31 december 2014, exemptions or reductions from the charging of the maritime toll on certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions (with the exception of saint-martin) in order to compensate for the disadvantages they suffer and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development. following the request by france to continue to apply such a taxation system, the commission has submitted a proposal for a new legal framework for the charging of excise duty for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, which identifies the products to which the exemptions or reductions of tax will apply and provides for a six-month extension of the validity of decision 2004/162/ec so that france can transpose the new decision into national law. i think that this proposal is entirely justified in the light of the objectives of supporting and stimulating the outermost regions, and i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the promotion of the socioeconomic development and competitiveness of the member states is one of the objectives of the european union. it is particularly important in the case of the outermost regions, which are exposed to a greater number of disadvantages at that level. in this respect, i voted in favour of the report on the european parliament's draft legislative resolution which, on the basis of the current article 349 of the tfeu, authorises france to apply, until 1 july 2014 (with a possible extension of six months), exemptions or reductions from excise duty to certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions. the desirable stimulus to economic activity and competitiveness in these regions justifies the adoption of this measure, which is intended to combat isolation and distance, dependence on raw materials and energy, the small size of the market and the stimulation of export activity (which is not very developed in these regions). for all these reasons, it seems to me clear that this measure will not jeopardise the coherence of the internal market or the eu legal order, which fully justifies the adoption of the commission proposal without amendments, as proposed by the rapporteur.
‒ we agree with the principle that france may apply exemptions or reductions from excise duty to certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions (with the exception of saint martin) in order to compensate for the disadvantages of the outermost regions concerned (remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, small market size and underdeveloped export activity) and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 890 000 for italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at whirlpool europe s.r.l.
in writing. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the italian authorities submitted the application egf/2014/010 it/whirlpool on 18 june 2014, following the redundancies of 608 workers in whirlpool europe s.r.l., an enterprise operating in the economic activity sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 27 (manufacture of electrical equipment), and in five downstream supplier and producer enterprises, as a consequence of the significant decrease in household consumption, the italian market for large appliances increased from eur 3174 billion in 2010 to eur 2649 billion in 2013, representing a decrease of 16,5%; in this mobilisation of the egf in favour of the region of trento in italy, eur 1.89 million was granted. i voted in favour.
‒ the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 890 000 for italy. it results in 608 layoffs at whirlpool and five downstream suppliers and producers. this is the fourth application from the electrical equipment manufacturing sector in italy to be examined since 2010. the proposal, which in addition to actions to be carried out directly with the workers made redundant, such as information sessions, counselling and guidance, skills assessment, general training and retraining, vocational training, among others, advocates recruitment subsidies, under fixed-term or permanent contracts, ranging from eur 3000 to eur 2000 per worker respectively. we believe that this measure should make the subsidy to enterprises conditional on the maintenance of rights and the creation of a permanent job, which is not the case. the justification for the closure of these companies and the consequent dismissal of their workers lies, once again, in the structural changes in world trade patterns and the world economic and financial crisis. we're approving palliative measures, but we have to attack the root of the problem: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to italy, which submitted the application egf/2014/010 it/whirlpool on 18 june 2014, following the redundancies of 608 workers in whirlpool europe s.r.l., a company operating in the economic activity classified under nace rev. 2 division 27 (manufacture of electrical equipment), and in five downstream suppliers and producers.
in writing. ‒ italy has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 608 redundancies in whirlpool europe s.r.l., an enterprise classified under nace rev. 2 division 27 (manufacture of electrical equipment), and in five downstream suppliers and producers, during the period from 10 december 2013 to 31 march 2014. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as it is found, on the one hand, that the redundancies in question are related to the economic and financial crisis and the consequent significant decrease in household consumption, which had an impact on the italian market for large household appliances, which decreased by 16,5% from 3174 billion in 2010 to 2649 billion in 2013; and, on the other hand, that such redundancies will further aggravate the employment situation in the province of trento, where the unemployment rate has doubled since the beginning of the crisis, from 2,9% in 2007 to 6,1% in 2013. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf in favour of italy.
‒ in the face of structural changes in international trade patterns, legislative and budgetary instruments have been created to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of these changes, enabling them to reintegrate into the labour market. considering that italy has applied for the egf following the dismissal of 608 workers from whirlpool europe s.r.l and that the company meets the eligibility criteria, i am in favour of the award of this financial contribution from the egf, amounting to eur 1 890 000, as a way of minimising the harmful effects this has on former workers, especially in this sector of electrical equipment production, which has suffered a sharp decline over the period 2008 to 2012, and above all on the lives of the more than 600 workers affected by this dismissal, who see in this instrument a window of opportunity to relaunch their working lives.
‒ the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 890.000 from the egf for italy to compensate for the loss of 608 redundancies at whirlpool and five suppliers and downstream producers. this is the fourth application from the electrical equipment manufacturing sector in italy to be examined since 2010. part of the money raised is intended for recruitment grants for fixed-term and permanent contracts, which vary between eur 3 000 and eur 2 000 per worker respectively. this measure would only make sense if the workers to be hired retained the rights guaranteed by whirlpool, namely a permanent employment contract.
‒ the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 89 000 from the egf for italy. it results in 608 layoffs at whirlpool and five downstream suppliers and producers. this is the fourth application from the electrical equipment manufacturing sector in italy to be examined since 2010. the proposal, which in addition to actions to be carried out directly with the workers made redundant, such as information sessions, counselling and guidance, skills assessment, general training and retraining, vocational training, among others, calls for recruitment subsidies, under fixed-term or permanent contracts, ranging from eur 3 000 to eur 2 000 per worker respectively. this measure would only make sense if the workers to be hired retained the rights guaranteed by whirlpool, namely a permanent employment contract, which is not guaranteed. we're approving palliative measures, but we have to attack the root of the problem: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 259 610 for poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at fiat auto poland and its 21 suppliers and downstream manufacturers.
in writing. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. poland submitted an application egf/2013/006 pl/fiat for a financial contribution following 1079 redundancies, i.e. 829 at fiat auto poland and 250 at 21 companies supplying and downstream manufacturing it, with an expected participation in the egf of 777 persons, due to a decrease in production at the tychy plant of fiat auto poland s.a. in the province of slaskie. in this mobilisation of the egf, eur 1,26 million was granted. i voted in favour.
‒ this application is submitted by poland following 829 redundancies at fiat auto poland and 250 at 21 of its suppliers and downstream manufacturers. in addition to actions to be taken directly with the workers made redundant, such as training costs, training for entrepreneurship, training grants, internship grants, self-employment grants, among others, the report advocates the encouragement of recruitment: employers who hire a former employee of this company for a period of 24 months will receive a grant of up to eur 4 845. we believe that this measure should make the subsidy to enterprises conditional on the maintenance of rights and the creation of a permanent job, which is not the case. in the name of the millions of unemployed, the millions of people living on the edge of poverty, we must break with these policies and promote socioeconomic development, the defence and promotion of national productive sectors and employment with rights. we must face this wave of mass redundancies head on and attribute to it the real reason: it's the quickest and easiest profit that's talking the loudest. and it is always the workers who pay for the crises that capitalism creates and will never be able to solve.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to poland, which submitted an application for egf/2013/006 pl/fiat, following 1 079 redundancies, i.e. 829 at fiat auto poland and 250 at 21 of its suppliers and downstream manufacturers, with 777 people expected to benefit from the egf measures, related to a decrease in production at the tychy plant of fiat auto poland s.a. located in the province of slaskie during the period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013.
in writing. ‒ poland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1079 redundancies in the tychy plant of fiat auto poland (829) and in 21 enterprises, their suppliers and downstream producers (250) during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, as it is found, on the one hand, that the redundancies in question are related to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as the european automotive industry has been losing market share since 2007 (in 2007, european automotive production represented 32,2% of world production, while in 2012 it was only 23,2%, with a decrease of 7% between 2011 and 2012, during which time world production increased by 5,3%) and that at national level, production volume fell by almost a third between 2011 and 2012; and on the other hand that such dismissals will have a negative impact on the province of slaskie. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for poland.
‒ as in the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the greek and italian cases, i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for poland, amounting to eur 1 259 610, to support the reintegration into the labour market of 777 workers made redundant at the tychy plant of fiat auto poland, which suffered a 56% decrease in production in the period 2009-2013. this financial contribution will be used to finance training for workers, training grants, traineeship grants, integration work, subsidies for self-employment, recruitment incentives and entrepreneurship.
‒ this application is submitted by poland following 829 redundancies at fiat auto poland and 250 at 21 of its suppliers and downstream producers. the european automotive industry has been losing market share since 2007, when european passenger car production represented 32,2% of world production, which fell to 23,2% in 2012. the group also decided to transfer the production of the panda classic model to the region of campania in italy from january 2013 in order to generate employment in its home country. in addition to actions to be taken directly with the workers made redundant, such as training costs, training for entrepreneurship, training grants, internship grants, self-employment grants, among others, it advocates an incentive to recruit: employers who hire a former employee of this company for a period of 24 months will receive a subsidy of up to eur 4.845. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the compensation granted to the employees of fiat auto poland for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008 was in line with the market economy operator test.
in writing. the present application is submitted by poland following 829 redundancies at fiat auto poland and 250 in 21 companies supplying it to downstream producers. in the justification provided, poland points out that the european automotive industry has been losing market share since 2007, which fell to 23,2% in 2012; notes, furthermore, that production in the eu-27 decreased by 7% between 2011 and 2012, while global production increased by 5,3% over the same period; on the other hand, the group decided to move production of the panda classic model to the campania region of italy, which demonstrates how capitalism uses labour for profit. in addition to actions to be taken directly with the workers made redundant, such as training costs, training for entrepreneurship, training grants, internship grants, self-employment grants, among others, it advocates an incentive to recruit: employers who hire a former worker of this company for a period of 24 months will receive a subsidy of up to eur 4 845. this measure would only make sense if the grant of this subsidy to the companies was conditional on the maintenance of the rights which the dismissed workers had in the company fiat auto poland and corresponded to a permanent post.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 6 44 000 for greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at odyssefs fokas s.a.
the egf was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. the greek authorities submitted the application egf/2014/013 el/odyssefs fokas on 29 july 2014 following the redundancies of 551 workers in odyssefs fokas s.a., an enterprise operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). in this mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece, eur 6.44 million was granted. i voted in favour.
‒ the greek application under examination concerns odyssefs fokas s.a., a company active in the retail trade sector, which has declared bankruptcy, leaving 600 workers, of whom 87% are women, unemployed. the justification for this dismissal has been seen before: reduction in households' disposable income due to increased tax burden, falling wages (both in the private sector and in the public service) and rising unemployment resulting in a huge fall in purchasing power. the commission also notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to restore its long-term viability. it should be noted that 90% of redundancies are concentrated in the regions of attica (28.2% unemployment) and central macedonia (30.3% unemployment), and that greece is the fifth country in the world with the highest unemployment rate. moreover, the attica region contributes to 43% of greek gdp and, for this reason, the impact of the closure of this company affects the entire greek economy. the report proposes to support the 600 workers made redundant and up to 600 young people who are not working, studying or in training. we voted in favour, despite our well-known reservations about this instrument.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to greece, which submitted its application for egf/2014/013 el/odyssefs fokas on 29 july 2014, following the redundancies of 551 workers in odyssefs fokas s.a., an enterprise operating in the economic sector classified under nace revision 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles).
in writing. ‒ greece has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 600 workers in odyssefs fokas s.a., a company operating in the nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). under the terms of that application, greece also proposes to provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 500 young people under 30 years of age who are not in employment, education or training. according to the commission, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, as the redundancies in question are linked to the economic and financial crisis, which as is known caused a significant increase in the unemployment rate and a sharp decrease in greek gdp, as well as a huge fall in purchasing power and consumption and a drastic reduction in loans to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of banks, ultimately leading to the bankruptcy of odyssefs fokas. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf for greece.
‒ based on the premise that the financial assistance provided to workers affected by redundancies as a result of globalisation should be on an individual basis and aim at their reintegration into the labour market, i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece, amounting to eur 6 444 000, to help the 551 workers directly affected by the closure of odyssefs fokas s.a., a company engaged in retail trade. i would also stress the relevance of the decision of the greek authorities to channel this fund to the provision of personalised services to a maximum of 500 young people who, unfortunately, after this closure, did not get a new job, did not return to school or did not enter a training course, stressing that these should be carried out in strict compliance with social criteria and in full respect of the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
‒ the greek application under examination concerns the company odyssefs fokas s, which has declared bankruptcy, putting 600 workers, of whom 87.17% are women, out of work. the justification for this dismissal lies in the reduction of household disposable income and the increase in unemployment which resulted in a huge fall in purchasing power, and the drastic reduction in loans to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of greek banks, factors that are associated with the global financial and economic crisis. the report proposes to mobilise eur 10 740 000 for targeted actions for the 600 workers made redundant by odyssefs fokas and for up to 600 young people who are not in employment, education or training (neets). we voted for another situation where it is the workers and their families who pay for the crisis that others have caused. we did not vote for the solution so that these situations would not be repeated.
‒ the application under consideration concerns the company odyssefs fokas s.a. which operates in the retail trade sector and which has declared bankruptcy, dismissing 600 workers, of whom 87.17% are women. the justification for this redundancy, according to the greek authorities, lies in the reduction of household disposable income due to the increase in the tax burden, the decline in wages (both in the private sector and in the public service) and the increase in unemployment which resulted in a huge fall in purchasing power, and the drastic reduction in loans to companies and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of the greek banks. greece is the fifth country in the world with the highest unemployment rate. the report proposes to mobilise eur 10 740,000 for targeted actions for the 600 workers made redundant by odyssefs fokas and for up to 600 young people who are not working, studying or in training. it is the workers and their families who pay for the crisis that others have caused. we did not approve the solution so that these situations would not be repeated. it is up to the people of europe to take it into their own hands to build an alternative to the policies that have sunk us.
‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when europe is facing a financial, economic and social crisis, with unemployment as one of its main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 25 937 813 for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by air france.
in writing. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or the financial crisis and to help them find new jobs. the annual ceiling of the fund for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 150 million. dismissed workers are offered measures such as support for business creation, job search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training. in most cases, national authorities have already started to take steps to have their costs reimbursed by the eu when their applications are approved. france submitted an application egf/2013/014 fr/air france for a financial contribution from the egf, following 5213 redundancies, with an expected participation of 3 886 persons, during and after the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 31 october 2013, related to a decrease in the union market share in air transport. in this mobilisation of the egf for france, eur 25 million was granted. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ france has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following 5213 redundancies, with 3886 people expected to participate in the measures during and after the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 31 october 2013. these redundancies are allegedly related to a decrease in the european union's market share in air transport. according to information received from the trade union movement and the organisations representing these workers - information which is decisive in our assessment of this report - the participation of workers' representatives in this process has not been properly considered. we note that most of the workers laid off are aged between 55 and 64. we reiterate that the egf cannot be used as a means of financing redundancies. we voted against this report in view of the position of the french trade unions, admitting that the risk of misuse of the egf in this case is not excluded.
‒ the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to france, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf under egf/2013/014 fr/air france, following 5213 redundancies, with an expected participation of 3886 persons, during and after the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 31 october 2013, related to a decrease in the union market share in air transport.
in writing. ‒ france has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 5213 workers, of whom 3886 were to be redundant, in air france during the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 31 october 2013. in the commission's view, this application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, as it is found, on the one hand, that the redundancies in question are related to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, which have resulted in a decrease of the eu market share in air transport, in particular in the face of the unexpected and spectacular expansion of the long-haul fleet of three major air carriers in the persian gulf region; and, secondly, that such redundancies will have a negative impact on the île-de-france region, which is already facing another mass redundancy following the closure of the peugeot citröen automobiles plant in aulnay. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the decision to mobilise the egf in favour of france.
‒ in line with the cases described in reports a8-0062, 0063 and 0064, and taking into account that france has submitted a request for financial assistance to the european globalisation adjustment fund following 5213 redundancies at air france, related to a decrease in its market share in the union, for the reasons explained in the report and that it meets the eligibility criteria, i voted in favour of allocating this fund, amounting to 21 580 020, which provides for the reintegration of 3886 workers into the labour market, in accordance with the provisions laid down in regulation no 1309/2013 in force.
in writing. ‒ france has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following 5213 redundancies, with an expected participation of 3886 persons, during and after the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 31 october 2013, related to a decrease in the union market share in air transport. according to information received from the trade union movement, the participation of workers' representatives in this process was not properly monitored. we note that most of the workers laid off are aged between 55 and 64. we reiterate that the egf cannot be used as a means of financing redundancies. we voted against this fund on a matter of principle, which is only a palliative against the effects of the neoliberal drift, but also because we believe that there is a risk of misuse of the egf.
in writing. france submitted an application on 20 december 2013 for a financial contribution from the egf, following 5213 redundancies at air france, and only 3 886 persons will benefit from it. of these, 68.94% are aged between 55 and 64 and 31.03% are aged between 25 and 54. the justification for this dismissal lies in major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the consequences of this layoff have had a negative impact on the île de france region, which has already faced the closure and collective layoff of another large company - peugeot citroen automobiles. the amount of eur 25 937 813 mobilised corresponds to 70% of the worker's last gross salary. the measures proposed for the reintegration of 3886 dismissed workers include training, counselling services for workers, aid for the creation of companies, a conversion grant and a mobility grant. according to information received from the trade union movement, the participation of workers' representatives in this process was not properly monitored. we reiterated that the egf cannot be used as a means of financing redundancies and we voted against it because we cannot support that possibility.
‒ the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs has held a hearing on the candidates proposed for the post of members of the single resolution board. all five candidates made opening statements and then answered questions from the committee members. we have nothing to say about the people themselves, as well as their cvs. the question here is one of principle and it has to do with our rejection of the whole banking union building and the purposes it serves. the european parliament has been the subject of a number of reports, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its views on the matter. for these reasons, we abstained from this vote.
in writing. ‒ the commission presented a proposal for the appointment of the chair, the vice-chair and the members of the single resolution board at the beginning of december this year. the various nominees submitted their cvs and were heard, receiving the commission's favourable opinion on their performance. i therefore wish the nominees the very best of luck in their duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution approving the appointment of the chair, the vice-chair and the members of the single resolution board, as the committee on economic and monetary affairs has assessed that, in terms of merit, competence, knowledge and experience, the proposed candidates meet the conditions for the performance of those duties, in accordance with article 56 (4) of regulation (eu) no 806/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 july 2014.
in writing. ‒ the commission held a hearing of the candidates proposed for the board members' posts, and all five candidates made opening statements and then answered questions from the members of the commission. we have nothing to say about the people themselves. we abstain because we want to make sure that we remain on the sidelines of this whole undemocratic process which reinforces the immense power of the central bank and impoverishes democracy in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has held a hearing of the proposed candidates for the posts of board members. we have nothing to say about the people themselves, as well as their résumés. we abstain because we want to remain on the sidelines of this whole undemocratic process which reinforces the immense power of the ecb, impoverishes eu democracy and does not contribute to a real economic revival.
mr president, the first work programme is certainly very important because it is important to set a new direction for europe and to set a new level of ambition. if we want to focus on a strong idea for this new direction for europe, then it is certainly to restart the job creation machine in europe. this machine is not working and we need to restart job creation in order to overcome the stagnation trend we are in, in order to overcome economic and social divergences between member states, and in order to pave the way for new activities: a green transition, a smart and innovative economy. but for that we really need to change direction and we are waiting for a commission that pushes for a new policy mix; where we have fiscal consolidation but where the top priority is certainly growth; where we have reforms but reforms to enhance growth potential and not just to cut public spending; where, most of all, investment is a top priority, and this means having an investment plan which is able to support strategic projects, which are missing in europe. this also means having a fiscal rule with more room for investments and this, we know very well, means having a credible agenda to tackle tax avoidance and to exclude harmful tax competition. this is the level and ambition we are waiting for. let me just underline that you also hold a historic task in your hands which is to complete the economic and monetary union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i do not think the problem is with the euro, the euro can become a strength for european union member states; the problem is that our economic and monetary union is deeply imbalanced. we need to complete the banking union, we need to have proper coordination to support demand with supply in deficit countries and most of all we need to build up a real fiscal capacity. with these conditions i think we can again deliver high job creation and better standards in the euro area.
looking at this programme, we see what the much-vaunted new juncker commission cycle means. an investment plan that consists of giving public guarantees to a giant public-private partnership program. infrastructures of public interest which are operated on the basis of private profit-making logic. condemning young people to precariousness and forced emigration. attacks on the welfare system. more liberalization, deregulation of trade, selective immigration. this is the way to go. it is symbolic that files are dropped which could still represent some sort of social advance, even if only slight, such as the maternity directive. and the backsliding is obvious, the backsliding is blatant on environmental issues. the commission is now revealing its true face as the business committee of large transnational capital. this programme is nothing more or less than the specifications of the major confederations of the large european employers' organizations. no matter who sits in that chair, they're the ones pulling the strings. none of this is future. it's all in the past. a dark past that will sooner or later be irrevocably defeated.
mr president of the commission, mr vice-president, we are here to discuss the commission's work programme for 2015. it turns out that you want to abolish, once and for all, certain environmental laws, such as air quality, recycling of urban waste and the circular economy. mr juncker, i would like you to reassure us that the alleged attempt to repeal the directives to reduce air pollution from vehicles in our cities, which set a recycling target of 70%, and the one that sets a recycling target of 70% of waste in the european union by 2030, is not serious and that you, mr president, did not realise that your vice-president had played this brave game for you and for all of us. mr juncker, you are certainly aware that there are already several member states, including germany and france, which have urged the commission to maintain these two directives. what do you have to say about this and how will you manage the conflict that seems to have broken out between mr timmermans and the environment commissioner, who said last week that he would not allow the two environmental directives to be scrapped?
written.. the european commission under jean claude juncker has created a positive expectation among those who want to see the european union as a benchmark for economic, social and environmental sustainability in the context of globalisation. the program presented today is disappointing. the commitments to change are vague, unquantified and insufficiently timed. one of the main problems of the european union is its inability to mobilise its citizens to a civilizational challenge. the programme presented does not have the necessary mobilizing power. it is a defensive programme, without boldness, without ambition and without transparency. in the european union we have had, in recent years, great proclamations without practical consequences. it is hoped that this programme, which is lax on paper, will prove a pleasant surprise in execution.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to congratulate all those who have spoken, because i believe that the union, the persistence of the european parliament, has made it possible to reach a good agreement on the 2014 budgets, the amending budgets and also the 2015 budget, without forgetting something that is fundamental, namely the european union's debt repayment plan. and let's not be afraid to call it debt, because that's what it's all about. this allows for the credibility of the european union's institutions and the achievement of our priorities for growth and employment. the agreement also stabilises the european union's debt and prevents a budgetary collapse. so in 2014, we have about four billion euros of extraordinary revenue to deal with the high level of non-payments. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the principle of proportionality. without this agreement, the member states would receive these revenues in their national budgets, which was unacceptable, especially because there is a large amount of invoices already due and not paid as i said. for 2015, we also managed to minimise the cuts that the council had proposed. we have also strengthened commitments to programmes for jobs and growth. the european union's external solidarity has also been strengthened in the field of humanitarian aid. in 2015, as we have agreed with the commission and the council, we must have a plan to deal with the invoices that are already due and not paid. the european union must apply to itself the same rigour as it requires of the member states and, in addition, must fulfil its commitments, in particular those it has adopted in the multiannual financial framework.
mr president, this compromise was necessary, and i congratulate the people involved, and in particular the excellent delegation from parliament. there was no question of breaking the momentum that jean-claude juncker and the majority of our parliament intend to give european politics. but europe is sinking into a major budget crisis. it seems that all the member states, the good and the bad budgetary pupils, have agreed to finance their newfound virtue at the expense of the common budget. it is also as if they had unanimously decided not to see him and even to deny him. the solution will be to completely cut off the financing of european policies. how can the union be given its own genuine resources? the commissioner recalled that we are working on this under the presidency of mario monti. is the juncker plan the outline of the investment budget that the union needs? what about the idea of a budgetary capacity specific to the euro area? who's got to pay? how can you do that? for example, the protection of the external borders of the union or the necessary military intervention against islamist terrorists near the same borders? it is time to ask ourselves these questions and to ask them all together.
mr vice-president, first of all, i would like to congratulate all my colleagues who participated in the negotiations on the compromise on the 2014 budget amendments and on the 2015 budget, especially as these negotiations were also conducted at the beginning of the second year of our current multiannual financial framework. i think that €145 billion in commitment appropriations and €141 billion in payment appropriations is a good compromise and allows for a balance between budgetary discipline and the promotion of growth as the key objective of our common resources and the redistribution of the european budget. i also believe that we must pay more attention to the implementation of the commitments already made, especially in the area of payments, which has been a critical aspect of the eu budget for many years. i also want to mention at this point the important agreements we have reached regarding the agreement and the solidarity fund, especially for the ice and floods that have occurred in croatia, as well as the floods that have hit slavonia in recent months. over 16.5 million euros will help croatia to repair the damage that has seriously affected it this year and so we see what the results of climate change are.
mr president, commissioner, council representatives, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that we can come back tomorrow to confirm agreement on the union's budget for 2014 and 2015, and i congratulate my colleagues in parliament who have been involved in these difficult negotiations. in the parliament's view, it is essential to ensure an adequate level of financial appropriations to reduce the extraordinarily high level of unpaid appropriations. unfortunately, the same member states continue to prefer to return unused financial margins to their own pockets rather than settle their obligations to third parties, as my colleague jean arthuis has said. it is regrettable that the budget negotiations are proving increasingly difficult, leaving the union on the verge of a blockade, or of the twelfth budget, as mr olbrycht has also said. on the other hand, taking into account the need, already recognised by the heads of government, for investment geared to the future and european competitiveness, which makes it possible to exploit synergies in the fields of energy, innovation or transport. it's a very bad sign. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the adoption of this budget brings another farce to an end, with the expected result. the great powers have once again imposed their law and forced a budget even lower than the one previously proposed by the european commission, which is already at the level of poverty. parliament has tabled the draft budget but, as usual, has approved it, fulfilling its role as the council's sounding board. in both countries the voices and interests of the major powers are being heard more loudly. in a process of capitalist integration of the eu type, the dynamics of divergence tend to become more acute as a consequence of free competition in the single market, common policies and, in general, the principles enshrined in the treaties. inequalities between countries and regions are widening. the budget would play a decisive role in mitigating (and, hopefully, even reversing) this dynamic of divergence and widening inequalities. however, because of its small size, it never fulfilled that role. the novelty here will be that never as today has he been so far from fulfilling that role. the budget is shrinking. the money allocated to cohesion is being reduced more and more, and is merely the dead letter of the treaties. even what is stipulated is not fulfilled, as was once again the case in 2014, forcing the adoption of several amending budgets.
madam president, president juncker, first of all i would naturally like to express my support and appreciation for the investment proposal that the commission is putting forward and which i think is a great opportunity for us, although i would like to point out that although president juncker has said that he would not pay attention to the regional question, not least because it is already dealt with in cohesion policy, i have no doubt that this is also the reason why it is essential to take into account, when choosing investments, the economic and social situation of those countries which have been able to make structural reforms and which now need leverage and support to have higher growth and job creation to alleviate this social situation. and then i would also like to draw attention to the external agenda of the european union. of course, for the ukraine issue and for the worrying russia issue, no doubt, but also for an issue that has come up this week with great force, which is the turkey issue, because our eastern front is not only the islamic state front, it is not only the northern front, which is the ukraine and russia front, it is also, between the two, the turkish issue, and the question of democracy and rights and freedoms in turkey is an essential issue for this balance of the eastern front, which i would like to draw attention to and on which the council cannot fail to take a position.
madam president, after the hope offered by the juncker commission's programme, the council's work programme and the known conclusions are disappointing. the future of the european union no longer depends on words, it depends on deeds. the europeans and the world will be watching for concrete actions, and the deadline for these actions to be on the ground is very clear: the end of the first half of 2015. anything not on the ground by then will have been lost. we must then have an investment plan on the ground, a concrete investment plan, which is not just a kind of reserve fund for projects that have been shelved and have not been covered by existing funds. we must have the energy union, we must have transparency and clear fiscal convergence, we must have a clear timetable for completing economic and monetary union. mr. president, the test of the nine is action action or disillusionment. that is what is at stake in the next council, and what we know so far of the conclusions is not very encouraging.
madam president, it is not for this last speaker, it was for the previous speaker that i asked for a blue card and the bureau refused to admit me. i wanted this on the record.
madam president, the next european council will be decisive if we are to have a real turning point in europe. the s&d group is available to support the italian presidency and the commission in pushing member states on the following commitments – and we really need commitments. first, on having a strategic fund for investment which is able to support the crucial investments we need in europe. we know that for this, we need to have member states’ contributions on capital and we need these national contributions to be neutralised. this commitment is crucial in the next european council. the second one concerns tax policy, because here we also need a turning point, not only about transparency, but making sure that taxes will be paid in the countries where profits are made. this is the commitment just made by the president of the commission. the third is the mandate given to the four presidents to complete the economic and monetary union (emu). if there is a central concern regarding the way in which to complete the emu, it is the concern regarding convergence. without convergence, there is no future for the eurozone.
madam president, the mayor of my home town of sintra is forced now to open school canteens not just to hungry pupils, but also to their unemployed parents. are you not ashamed, mr juncker, that this is happening in a country, portugal, that some like mr weber ridiculously believe to have become the locomotive of growth in the eu? why do you think there is no money – private or public – to invest in jobs and growth while tax havens in the eu and outside accumulate piles of money which is masked by companies and individuals who evaded and avoided paying tax in the eu member states? will you in the commission and in the council face your responsibilities – exposed by the luxleaks scandal – and put an end to the race to the bottom that is going on among member states as regards tax dumping, in evident violation of fair competition in the single market, undermining the monetary union and fostering tax criminality, tax injustice and corruption throughout the eu financial system? on the external agenda: do not let the crises in russia, ukraine and turkey continue to overshadow and to block action by the council on the eu’s security interests, which are put in danger by the insecurity in libya.
mr president, i do want to ask the bureau for clarification because when i was reviewing the voting list i found that amendment no 30 was not considered admissible for a vote. i would like to ask the bureau why it was not admissible, since we already voted for it in the 2014 amending budget. what i am referring to in amendment no 30, which is an amendment by our group, is that in the light of the current economic and social crisis, members of parliament should contribute a solidarity levy of 7% of their salary, as we have in fact imposed on all civil servants. it's not a pay cut, it's a 7% solidarity fee. we voted for this in the 2014 amending budget. why is that not admissible? i would like to be able to vote on this amendment.
in writing. - the eu and moldova have intensified their political and economic relations, notably through the conclusion of an association agreement in which moldova will further enhance its access to the eu market, in particular through approximation to relevant eu legislation and standards. this rapprochement led to russia banning the entry of moldovan products into its territory. agriculture accounts for 40% of the country's economy and employs 250,000 people. seeking assistance and support at this critical time, the moldovan authorities have turned to the eu for urgent assistance to reduce the economic impact of the russian ban, in particular on the most important products for moldovan fruit growers: apples, plums and table grapes which are now exempted from duties by 40 000 tonnes for fresh apples and 10 000 tonnes for fresh table grapes and fresh plums. as this is a matter of social and institutional solidarity, it deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. in 2008, the eu introduced autonomous trade preferences (atps). this grant was foreseen in the 2005 european neighbourhood policy action plan. the cfp regulation abolished all trade rights for moldovan industrial products and granted free access to the eu market to moldovan agricultural products, with the exception of some meat, dairy products, maize, barley and sugar. the signing of the eu-moldova association agreement includes the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). the european commission states that in order to support the efforts of the republic of moldova, in line with the objectives set out in the european neighbourhood policy, the eastern partnership and the association agreement, and to reduce the economic impact of the ban imposed by russia on agricultural products due to moldova's political rapprochement with the eu, it proposes to amend the cfp regulation by introducing three new duty-free tariff quotas for apples, table grapes and plums. we are in favour of a policy of cooperation and solidarity with all the countries and peoples of the world. of course, it is also with moldova. but that is not the aim of free trade, nor of the eu's neighbourhood policy, nor of the vision that this report frames.
in writing. the autonomous trade preferences (atp) for the republic of moldova (hereinafter referred to as moldova) were initially introduced by the eu through council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 of 21 january 2008. the granting of these preferences was envisaged in the 2005 european neighbourhood policy action plan, provided that moldova substantially improved its system of controls and certification of goods. moldova has fulfilled its commitments by reforming its customs legislation and by transposing it satisfactorily into administrative practice by 2007. the aim of this report is to help moldova to counter the russian embargo on its agricultural products, in particular on the following products: fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums. the duty-free tariff quotas for the 3 products concerned are very low in volume compared to eu production (0.4% for apples, 0.7% for plums and 0.6% for table grapes), thus not affecting european producers. that is why i am voting in favour.
the republic of moldova has been subject to a russian embargo on its agricultural production since 21 july 2014, implemented as a result of the intensification of economic and political relations between moldova and the european union (eu). whereas the agricultural sector represents 40% of the moldovan economy, employing 250 000 people, and the total imports from moldova to the eu represented 0,1% of the total eu imports in 2013; whereas imports of fresh apples, fresh plums and fresh grapes would account for a total of 0,01 % of total eu imports, the corresponding loss of tariff revenue would have a disproportionate impact on the eu budget if these three products were to benefit from duty-free tariff quotas; and finally, taking into account that the autonomous trade preferences scheme will expire at the end of 2015, and with it the applicable tariff quotas proposed in this resolution, i voted in favour of the liberalisation of the market between the eu and moldova as designed by the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report granting autonomous trade preferences to the republic of moldova on the basis that it has substantially improved the system for the control and certification of goods, as provided for in the action plan signed under the 2005 european neighbourhood policy, and also on the basis that moldova has fulfilled its commitments by implementing the reform of customs legislation and its satisfactory transposition by 2007. this proposed amendment to council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 complements the association agreement signed between the parties on 27 june 2014, which will lead to the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area, where moldova will have the opportunity to strengthen access to the european market, in particular through approximation to community legislation and standards. i would also stress the solidarity principle inherent in this proposal, which stems from the politically motivated import ban that russia has applied to agricultural products from moldova since 21 july 2014. in this sense, this allocation of duty-free tariff quotas for three types of fruit products will translate into tangible benefits and immediate assistance to the economy of this country until the end of 2015, with a limited impact on the union market.
in writing. the pca regulation abolished all trade rights for moldovan industrial products and granted free access to the eu market to moldovan agricultural products, with the exception of some meat, dairy products, maize, barley and sugar. the signing of the eu-moldova association agreement includes the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). the european commission states that in order to support the efforts of the republic of moldova, in line with the objectives set out in the european neighbourhood policy, the eastern partnership and the association agreement, and to reduce the economic impact of the ban imposed by russia on agricultural products due to moldova's political rapprochement with the eu, it proposes to amend the cfp regulation by introducing three new duty-free tariff quotas for apples, table grapes and plums. we are in favour of a policy of cooperation and solidarity with all the countries and peoples of the world, but that is not the aim of free trade, nor of the eu's neighbourhood policy, nor of the vision that this report frames.
in writing. in january 2008, the eu introduced autonomous trade preferences (atps) until 31 december 2015 by means of regulation (ec) no 55/2008. this grant was foreseen in the 2005 european neighbourhood policy action plan. the spa regulation abolished all trade rights for moldovan industrial products and granted free access to the eu market to moldovan agricultural products, with the exception of beef and pork, poultry, dairy products, maize, barley and sugar. the signature of the eu-moldova association agreement includes the creation of a comprehensive and deep free trade area (cfta) to be applied provisionally as from 1 september 2014. we are in favour of a policy of cooperation and solidarity with all the countries and peoples of the world. of course, it is also with moldova. but that is not the aim of free trade, nor of the eu's neighbourhood policy, nor of the vision that this report frames.
in writing. - i know . the negotiations with ecuador for its accession to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and colombia and peru were concluded on 17 july 2014. the european commission adopted on 1 october 2014 a proposal ensuring that the customs duties applied on the date of initiation of the protocol of accession of ecuador to the free trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru are not increased and further ensuring that customs duties are not applied to products originating in ecuador. the proposal for a regulation provides for the maintenance of the level of the duty rates applicable to and for ecuador on the date of entry into force of the accession protocol. the transitional application until no later than 31 december 2016 appears necessary to allow the eu and ecuador sufficient time to complete all the internal procedures necessary for the application of the accession protocol. the safeguard measures taken by the european union and ecuador shall remain in force, irrespective of the application of this regulation. this proposal deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. ecuador should lose its gsp+ status as of 1 january 2015. this regulation has the effect of prolonging the trade preferences granted to ecuador under the gsp+ regulation. however, this extension is subject to strict conditions imposed by the eu on ecuador. by accepting this agreement to extend gsp+ status, ecuador will, among other conditions, have to refrain from imposing new duties or restrictions on imports from the eu and continue negotiations with a view to signing and ratifying the free trade agreement. should the commission consider that ecuador does not fulfil any of the conditions, it may suspend this tariff treatment. in the context of growing pressure for the liberalisation of international trade, it is clear that the eu is using the end of the gsp+ as a form of blackmail for the acceptance of the so-called free trade agreements, through unacceptable diplomatic and economic pressure on several countries. the gsp+ would need to be extended and renegotiated alongside other development support policies to become a development aid instrument, shaping effective solidarity and combating economic dependence and exploitation of people and their natural resources by eu economic groups.
in writing. on 17 july 2014, negotiations with ecuador for its accession to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and colombia and peru were concluded and a protocol was subsequently signed. in order to avoid unnecessary disruption of trade, pending the completion of the procedures for the approval and application of the protocol of accession, it is necessary to ensure that the customs duties applied on the date of entry into force of the protocol of accession are not increased and that no new customs duties are applied to products originating in ecuador. the proposal for a regulation therefore provides for the maintenance of the level of the duty rates applicable to ecuador at the date of entry into force of the accession protocol.
in writing. the instrument that allows developing countries to benefit from differentiated and more favourable trade treatment by developed countries, the generalised system of preferences (gsp), currently in force for ecuador, would expire in january 2015. the trade preferences granted under the regulation would thereby expire. however, ecuador has since moved up its previous wto ranking, with the list of vulnerable and developing countries eligible for the facility updated for the last three consecutive years, but always excluding ecuador. the eu thus entered into parallel negotiations with ecuador for accession to the trade agreement also concluded between the eu and colombia and peru. in the interim period during which the internal procedures necessary for the application of the accession protocol are being carried out, another transitional application of tariff preferences until the end of 2016, which this resolution approves, with my vote, seems necessary in order to avoid trade diversion due to the increase in customs duties on products originating in ecuador.
in writing. ecuador will lose its gsp+ status as of 1 january 2015. negotiations have been launched for the accession of this country to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and colombia and peru on 17 july. it is noted that the accession of ecuador to the eu trade agreement with the andean community (initially planned but later suspended due to ecuador's withdrawal from the negotiations in 2007) will allow it to restore the competitiveness that its export products have lost compared to similar products imported from colombia and peru, and also give it a new legal framework for bilateral relations with the eu. the proposal thus seeks to ensure, in a harmonious and equitable manner, that the customs duties applied on the date of entry into force of the protocol of accession of ecuador to the free trade agreement between the eu and the andean community are not increased, even if no customs duties are applied transitionally to products originating in ecuador. i therefore agree to the transitional extension of the trade preferences granted under the gsp+ regulation to ecuador until the entry into force of the eu-ecuador free trade agreement.
this regulation has the effect of prolonging the trade preferences granted to ecuador under the gsp+ regulation. however, this extension is subject to strict conditions imposed by the eu on ecuador. by accepting this agreement to extend gsp+ status, ecuador will, among other conditions, have to refrain from imposing new duties or restrictions on imports from the eu and continue negotiations with a view to signing and ratifying the free trade agreement. in a context of increasing pressure for the liberalisation of international trade, it is clear that the eu is using the end of the gsp+ as a form of blackmail for the acceptance of the so-called free trade agreements, through unacceptable diplomatic and economic pressure on several countries.
in writing. - i know . the implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a very high volume of overdue payments, with outstanding invoices for cohesion policy alone amounting to some eur 23,4 billion at the end of 2013 and commitments to be settled (rals) reaching eur 221,7 billion at the same date, eur 41 billion more than the initial forecast. in the framework of the negotiations on the 2014 and 2015 budget package, it was agreed to mobilise the contingency margin of eur 2818,2 million plus eur 350 million, i.e. eur 3168,2 million. it is unacceptable that the council does not share the interpretation of the parliament and the commission that the amount of eur 350 million in payment appropriations mobilised in 2014 in respect of the specific instruments provided for in the mff regulation should not be counted towards the payment ceiling. the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2014 does not entail any increase in the overall ceiling for payments (eur 908 billion in 2011 prices) of the mff 2014-2020, as it is deducted from the margins for future budgetary years. flexibility instruments should be used to pay for invoices that are already due and not paid. the european union must apply to itself the same rigour as it requires of the member states and, in addition, must fulfil its commitments, in particular those it has adopted in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. the regulatory contingency margin may reach 0,03 % of eu gni, used to supplement the payment appropriations of the general budget of the eu, in this case for 2014, above the ceiling for payments. this report endorses the decision to mobilise eur 3168 million, which will be allocated to three fractions of the margins below the payment ceilings for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, with the exception of eur 350 million from an agreement on payments for other special instruments, which, according to the report, should be left to the commission to draw up a timely proposal on the application of this amount. the council does not share the view of the parliament and the commission that the amount of eur 350 million in payment appropriations mobilised in 2014 in respect of specific instruments should not be counted towards the payment ceiling, thus leaving a margin of eur 711 million to be used before the contingency margin is used. in view of the lack of information on the specific headings for which payments are made, we abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to be able to fulfil the eu budget, as the implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a very high volume of overdue payments, with outstanding invoices. the mobilisation of the 2014 contingency margin will free up more than eur 3 billion to help pay outstanding invoices. while it will not be enough to solve the problem, it will be a valuable aid in its resolution.
in writing. - the implementation of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 started with a very high volume of overdue payments, with outstanding invoices for cohesion policy alone amounting to some eur 23.4 billion at the end of 2013 and commitments to be settled (rals) reaching eur 221.7 billion at the same date, eur 41 billion more than the initial forecast when the mff 2007-2013 was agreed. this situation requires urgent measures, with recourse to the flexibility mechanisms included in the mff regulation, in order not to jeopardise the implementation of eu policies and programmes, to limit claims for default interest and to avoid unduly increasing the exposure and economic vulnerability of beneficiaries of the union budget. the parliament, the council and the commission have agreed to use the contingency margin to the amount of eur 3168,2 million, the financing of which can be carried out at virtually no cost to national budgets due to other additional revenue in 2014. i voted in favour.
in writing. the regulatory contingency margin may reach 0,03 % of eu gni, used to supplement the payment appropriations of the general budget of the eu, in this case for 2014, above the ceiling for payments. this report proposes to mobilise eur 3168 million in three tranches for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, with the exception of eur 350 million from an agreement on payments for other special instruments, which, according to the report, should be left to the commission to draw up a timely proposal on the application of this amount. the council does not share the view of the parliament and the commission that the amount of eur 350 million in payment appropriations mobilised in 2014 in respect of specific instruments should not be counted towards the payment ceiling, thus leaving a margin of eur 711 million to be used before the contingency margin is used.
in writing. - draft amending budget (dab) no 3/2014 to the general budget for 2014 originally presented by the commission proposed an increase of eur 1 568 million in the estimated revenue from fines and penalties and other revenue and an increase of eur 4 738 million in the payment appropriations in categories 1a, 1b, 2 and 4 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in order to meet payment needs until the end of the year, covering the obligations arising from previous and current commitments. the commission notes that the implementation of the 2014-2020 mff started with a huge backlog of payments, with outstanding invoices reaching around eur 23,4 billion at the end of 2013 for cohesion policy alone and the level of outstanding commitments (oda) reaching eur 221,7 billion at the end of 2013. the council agreed with parliament on 8 december 2014 at great cost to provide for increased payments in the 2014 budget under certain budget lines up to an amount of eur 4 246 million, of which eur 3 168 million will be mobilised through the 2014 contingency margin.
in writing. since 2010 there has been a worsening of the increasing and cumulative effect of outstanding invoices and projects with suspended payments. this amending budget is designed to solve problems of this kind. but on the one hand it falls far short of the amounts needed and on the other hand it channels funds into areas which we do not consider to be the most priority, given the emergency situation in the european union, marked by economic and social inequalities. the letter from the european parliament's committee on regional development on the matter, which notes the delays in payments in the cohesion category, amounts which already amount to eur 23.4 billion at the end of 2013, is indicative of this. the money is being channelled into instruments linked to security and defence policy, which we strongly disagree with. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. this amending budget is intended to accommodate a wide range of appropriations by reallocating appropriations from various types of funds. this money will be used to cover various headings which were without the necessary financial allocation. that is why i am voting in favour.
having regard to the joint statement by parliament, the council and the commission on payment appropriations agreed in the joint conclusions of 12 november 2013 and to council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020; whereas draft amending budget (db) no 3/2014 to the general budget for 2014 proposed an increase of eur 1568 million in the estimated revenue from fines and penalties and other revenue and an increase of eur 4738 million in the payment appropriations in categories 1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b and 4 of the multiannual framework, as the implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a huge backlog of payments, with outstanding invoices reaching around eur 23,4 billion at the end of 2013, i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the contingency margin, which aims at implementing a specific and maximum flexibility as a guarantee to meet the union's obligations.
in writing. since 2010 there has been a worsening of the amount of outstanding invoices and projects with suspended payments. this budget is intended to help solve this problem, but it falls far short of the amounts needed and channels funds into areas which are not the objective priority in a european union with an urgent need to reduce economic and social inequalities. an example of this is the letter from the committee on regional development on the subject, which notes the delays in payments in the cohesion category, amounts which already amount to eur 23,4 billion at the end of 2013. however, the document also channels funds to instruments linked to security and defence policy, a policy with which we do not agree, both because of its clear attack on the sovereignty of each country and because of the unacceptable prospect of creating a europe based on the force of arms.
in writing. since 2010 there has been a worsening of the increasing and cumulative effect of outstanding invoices and projects with suspended payments. this amending budget attempts to solve this problem by falling far short of the amounts needed and channelling funds into areas which are not the objective priority in a european union with an urgent need to reduce economic and social inequalities. an example of this is the letter from the committee on regional development on the matter which notes the delays in payments in the cohesion category, amounts which already amount to eur 23.4 billion at the end of 2013. however, the document also channels funds to instruments linked to security and defence policy, a policy with which we strongly disagree.
in writing. - draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2014 includes a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (trs, i.e. customs duties and levies in the sugar sector), the vat and gross national income (gni) bases, the budgeting of the corrections relating to the united kingdom, and a revision of the estimates of other revenue from fines, resulting in a change in the level and distribution among member states of their contributions to the union budget from own resources. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the training of staff and the purchase of equipment and tools for the management of the external borders of the union. the reduction in gni, estimated at some eur 646.1 million, and in the vat-based own resource, estimated at eur 192.4 million, is offset by the abovementioned fines for a cumulative amount of eur 2 433 million and thus automatically reduces the need for additional gni-based contributions by eur 1 594.5 million.
in writing. this 4th amending budget is intended to cover a revision of the traditional own resources (or) forecasts, such as customs duties and sugar levies, vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corrections for the united kingdom, and the revision of revenue from fines. this results in a change in the level and distribution among member states of contributions to the general budget of the eu under these resources. while traditional prs decreased by eur 646.1 million and vat-based prs by eur 192.4 million, fines and default interest increased by eur 2.433 million. thereafter, the national contributions based on gni are reduced by eur 1,594,5 million. we disagree with that. we are not in favour of reducing national contributions, which benefits the large countries and impoverishes the redistributive function of the budget. what was needed was an extra boost from a very meagre budget to meet the cohesion objectives which are increasingly merely the dead letter of the treaties. in this case, it is proposed to reduce the appropriations of the european data protection supervisor and channel them to humanitarian aid.
in writing. this draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2014 covers a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (trs, i.e. customs duties and levies in the sugar sector), the vat and gross national income (gni) bases, the budgeting of the corresponding corrections for the united kingdom and a revision of the estimates of other revenue from fines, resulting in a change in the level and distribution among member states of their contributions to the union budget as own resources. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. whereas draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2014 covers a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (customs duties and levies in the sugar sector, providing for a reduction of eur 2 433 million), the vat and gni bases (gni - automatically reducing the need for additional contributions based on gni in 1594, eur 5 million), the budgeting of the corresponding corrections of the united kingdom and a revision of the estimates of other revenue from fines, resulting in a change in the level and distribution among the member states of their contributions to the union budget from own resources; as this op 4/2014 also reduces the appropriations for commitments and payments to the european data protection supervisor by eur 248 460, and is essential to avoid a shortage of liquidity that could lead to an implementation deficit in 2014, i voted in favour of this resolution approving the council's position on draft amending budget no 4/2014.
in writing. this 4th amending budget for 2014 covers a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (ors) such as customs duties and sugar levies, vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corrections for the united kingdom, a revision of revenue from fines, resulting in a change in the level and distribution between member states and their contributions to the general budget of the eu as these resources. while the traditional rrs decreased by eur 646.1 million and the vat-based rrs by eur 192.4 million, fines and default interest increased by eur 2 433 million and therefore the need for additional gni-based contributions was automatically reduced by eur 1 594.5 million. this should not be used to lighten national contributions but rather to provide an extra boost to an already meagre budget to meet the union's cohesion objectives. this amending budget proposes a reduction in the appropriations for commitments and payments for the european data protection supervisor, channelling them to the humanitarian aid heading.
in writing. this 4th amending budget for 2014 is intended to cover a revision of the traditional own resources (or) forecasts, such as customs duties and sugar levies, vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corrections corresponding to the united kingdom, revision of revenue from fines, resulting in a change in the level and distribution between member states and their contributions to the general budget of the eu under these resources. while traditional r & d expenditure fell by eur 646.1 million and vat-based r & d expenditure by eur 192.4 million, fines and default interest increased by eur 2 433 million, automatically reducing the need for additional gni-based contributions by eur 1 594.5 million. this should not serve to lighten national contributions but rather to provide extra reinforcement for an already tight budget.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions in europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and candidate countries negotiating their accession. italy, greece, slovenia and croatia were affected by different types of natural disasters floods, earthquakes and snow and ice storms which caused considerable damage in those member states. support the mobilisation of eur 46 998 528 for the member states concerned, which will help the eu to demonstrate its solidarity and support for the affected countries by contributing to the financing of urgent measures such as the immediate restoration of the functioning of infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy production, drinking water supply, waste water treatment, telecommunications, transport, health and education; the implementation of interim accommodation measures and the provision of relief services to meet the immediate needs of the affected population; the immediate reinforcement of preventive infrastructure and the protection of cultural heritage sites; the immediate clean-up of disaster areas, including natural areas.
in writing. - the draft amending budget concerned covers the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of almost eur 47 million in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), snow and ice storms in slovenia and the same storms followed by floods in croatia in late january/early february 2014. i recognise the urgency of providing financial assistance through the eusf to the countries affected by these natural disasters by agreeing to the approval of additional commitment appropriations of eur 47 million in the 2014 budget and the transfer of the corresponding payment needs to the 2015 budget.
in writing. this proposal seeks to mobilise the european solidarity fund in favour of floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), ice storms in slovenia and the same storms followed by floods in croatia in late january and early february 2014, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. different types of natural disasters (floods, earthquakes and snow and ice storms) caused considerable damage to the eu applicant member states, while italy and greece were affected by unrelated disasters of different types, one of the worst winter snows in europe affected several countries, with particularly negative effects for slovenia and croatia the eu must stand in solidarity with its members who suffer from this kind of natural disaster. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund following the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), ice storms in slovenia and ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january and early february 2014. such disasters have caused considerable damage to the requesting member states and the eligibility criteria set out in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 establishing the european union solidarity fund are fulfilled. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution approving the decision to mobilise the sum of eur 46 998 528 for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia.
in writing. i agree to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 46 998 528 to minimise the effects of the severe natural disasters described in this report which occurred in croatia, slovenia, greece and italy this year and last year. the activation of this fund was based on the criteria for extraordinary regional disasters, as provided for in the last paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 laying down the conditions for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in exceptional circumstances arising from situations which do not qualify as major natural disasters within the meaning of the regulation on the european union solidarity fund. i believe that the european union has once again fulfilled one of its noblest principles: that of solidarity and mutual assistance between different nations that share the same values, the same continent and share part of their sovereignty in a voluntary and committed way.
in writing. the text approves the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia. in the case of italy, the call for mobilisation follows heavy rains in november 2013 which caused many rivers to overflow and major floods. greece was struck by a violent earthquake, followed by dozens of severe aftershocks, between january and february last year, leaving 3,000 people homeless and several others injured. as the total losses are below the threshold for large-scale disasters for mobilising the solidarity fund, the application was examined on the basis of the criteria for regional disasters of an extraordinary nature. slovenia and croatia were also affected by winter snowfall which hit several parts of europe and several countries between january and february this year. in croatia, melting ice and snow resulted in floods that caused additional damage. as the estimated total direct damage in both countries exceeds the normal threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund, this disaster can be considered a major natural disaster. we voted yes.
in writing. the text approves the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia. in the case of italy, the call for mobilisation follows heavy rains in november 2013 which caused many rivers to overflow and major floods. greece was struck by a violent earthquake, followed by dozens of severe aftershocks, between january and february last year, leaving 3,000 people homeless and several injured. as the total losses are below the threshold for a major disaster for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, the request was examined on the basis of the criteria for regional disasters of an extraordinary nature, which we support. slovenia and croatia were also affected by winter snowfall which hit several parts of europe and several countries between january and february this year. in croatia, there was also the aggravation of melting ice and snow resulting in floods that caused additional damage. as the estimated total direct damage in both countries exceeds the normal threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund, this disaster can be considered a major natural disaster. we voted in favour.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2014 covers the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to the amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), snow and ice storms in slovenia and the same storms followed by floods in croatia in late january/early february 2014. this approval makes it possible to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2014 budget. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. in parallel to the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund of eur 46 998 528 for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, the commission presented a draft amending budget (oj no 5/2014 of 8 september 2014) to enter the corresponding commitment appropriations in the 2014 budget and to carry over the corresponding payment appropriations to the 2015 budget. i voted in favour of this because i believe that financial assistance should be provided to these countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this budgetary amendment, which results from the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 46 998 528 to minimise the effects of the severe natural disasters that occurred in croatia, slovenia, greece and italy this year and last year, for the reasons set out in the explanation of vote for report a8-0073/2014.
in writing. draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2014 covers the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to the amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), snow and ice storms in slovenia and the same storms followed by floods in croatia in late january/early february 2014. as stated in the report, the lack of payment appropriations in 2014 precludes the possibility of finding the resources for draft amending budget no 5/2014 by reallocation.
in writing. draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2014 covers the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to the amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), snow and ice storms in slovenia and the same storms in croatia followed by floods in late january and early february 2014. we agree.
in writing. the amending budget no 6 proposed here concerns the revision of the estimates for traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, which in practice translates into a reduction in funding from the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) of almost eur 77 million in commitments and eur 6.2 million in payments. this reduction is mainly due to the late adoption of the legal basis of the fund, which makes it impossible to use the funds in time, a regrettable aspect given the sharp decline the sector has been suffering in recent decades. the proposal moves forward with the use of the €6.2 million of payments withdrawn from the emff to help finance possible humanitarian aid crises at the end of the year. given the circumstances explained in relation to the delay in the approval of the emff, which is regrettable, as has been said, this amendment is nevertheless understandable and acceptable.
in writing. this draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2014 concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, a reduction in the appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, as well as an increase in the appropriations for the european ombudsman. the objective of op 6/2014 is to formally enter these adjustments in the budget for the financial year 2014. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - having regard to the draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2014 concerning the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, a reduction in the appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, and an increase in the appropriations for the european ombudsman, whereas the overall revenue impact of this op consists of a reduction in the mobilisation of own resources of eur 4 095,5 million and its objective is to formally enter these adjustments in the budget for the financial year 2014, noting that the adoption of this op 6/2014 reduces the gni contribution needs of the member states by eur 4515,5 million and increases the estimates for traditional own resources by eur 420 million, i declare that i voted in favour of this resolution approving the council's position on draft amending budget no 6/2014.
in writing. amending budget no 6 concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions. in practice, this represents a reduction in funding under the european maritime and fisheries fund of almost €77 million in commitments and €6.2 million in payments. this reduction is mainly due to the late adoption of the legal basis for the fund, which makes it impossible to use the appropriation in time, a regrettable aspect given the sharp decline the sector has been suffering in recent decades, adding now more difficulties to this reduction. the proposal moves forward with the use of the €6.2 million of payments withdrawn from the emff to help finance possible humanitarian aid crises at the end of the year.
in writing. the amending budget no 6 proposed here concerns the revision of the estimates for traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, which in practice means a reduction in funding from the european maritime and fisheries fund of almost eur 77 million in commitments and eur 6.2 million in payments. this reduction is mainly due to the late adoption of the legal basis for the emff, which makes it impossible to use the funds in time, which is regrettable given the sharp decline the sector has been experiencing in recent decades, adding now more difficulties to this reduction.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions in europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and candidate countries negotiating their accession. in may 2014, serbia and croatia were hit by the worst floods in recorded history. in june 2014, bulgaria was hit by severe flooding. support the mobilisation of eur 79 726 440 for the member states concerned, which helps the eu to demonstrate its solidarity and support for the affected countries by contributing to the financing of urgent measures such as the immediate restoration of the functioning of infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy production, drinking water supply, waste water treatment, telecommunications, transport, health and education; the implementation of interim accommodation measures and the provision of relief services to meet the immediate needs of the affected population; the immediate consolidation of preventive infrastructure and the protection of cultural heritage sites; the immediate cleaning up of disaster areas, including natural areas.
in writing. - the report approves the mobilisation of the solidarity fund following the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and the floods in bulgaria in june 2014. serbia and croatia were affected by bad weather which caused severe flooding. causing serious damage to public and private infrastructure and damaging hundreds of thousands of families. as the estimated total direct damage in both countries exceeds the normal threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund, this disaster can be considered a major natural disaster. in bulgaria, some of its regions were affected by heavy and heavy rainfall causing severe flooding. damage has been caused to public infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy, water and water resources, telecommunications, transport, health, education, emergency services, cultural heritage and protected natural areas. as the estimated total direct damage exceeds the threshold, this disaster can be considered a 'large scale natural disaster'. in both cases the mobilisation of the fund is justified, and we supported it. we stress, however, the importance of adopting (and appropriately financing) disaster prevention measures, also of the type now being implemented in these two countries.
this proposal is intended to mobilise the european union solidarity fund following the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and the floods in bulgaria in june 2014, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. the eu must stand in solidarity with its members who suffer from this kind of natural disaster. that is why i am voting in favour.
the commission proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund following the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and the floods in bulgaria in june 2014. those disasters have caused considerable damage to the requesting member states and the eligibility criteria set out in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 establishing the european union solidarity fund, as amended by regulation (eu) no 661/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, are fulfilled. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution approving the decision to mobilise the sum of eur 79 726 440 for serbia, croatia and bulgaria.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, amounting to eur 79 726 440, for the mitigation of damage caused by the severe floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and for the floods in bulgaria in june 2014, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. we are faced with natural disasters which have affected various economic sectors in a very negative and very significant way, including energy, mining and agriculture, as well as road infrastructure, public telecommunications equipment, health, education and coastal protection facilities, which can and should be covered by the scope of application of the solidarity fund.
in writing. the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund (the fund) to show solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters. article 10 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 allows the mobilisation of the fund within an annual ceiling of eur 500 million (2011 prices). serbia, croatia and bulgaria submitted an application to mobilise the fund, following floods. the serbian authorities estimate the total amount of direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 1,1 billion. this estimate is based on the results of the assessment of recovery needs carried out with the participation of the eu and international organisations in the immediate post-disaster period.
in writing. - i was the rapporteur for the mobilisation of eur 79 726 440 from the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to help people affected by the floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria in may and june this year. the eusf enables the union to provide financial support to a member state, an applicant country or a region in the event of major natural disasters. this report was adopted by 665 votes in favour, 30 against and 8 abstentions. during may 2014, severe weather affected large areas of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia, causing some of the worst flooding in recorded history and massive destruction of public and private infrastructure, as well as damage to hundreds of thousands of households. a month later, heavy and heavy rainfall, four times higher than monthly weather patterns, affected parts of the republic of bulgaria, causing severe flooding and disturbances.
in writing. following the events of 2014, when during may bad weather hit most of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia, leading to the worst flooding in those countries in recorded history, causing massive destruction of public and private infrastructure, thousands of family homes, followed by heavy rains in bulgaria in august, causing many floods leading to serious disturbances, the commission received and analysed three requests to mobilise the solidarity fund. this draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the fund in the amount of eur 79.726.440 in commitment and payment appropriations and aims to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2014 budget. we voted for it, of course. we stress, however, the importance of developing a preventive approach to disasters, which will make it possible to prevent them as far as possible or at least to minimise their magnitude and impacts. the solidarity fund is a necessary instrument. but other instruments upstream are also needed.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 79 726 440 in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in serbia and croatia and the floods in bulgaria. the purpose of draft amending budget no 7/2014 is to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2014 budget. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. in parallel to the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund of eur 79 726 440 for serbia, croatia and bulgaria, the commission presented a draft amending budget (oj no 7/2014 of 17 october 2014) to enter the corresponding commitment appropriations in the 2014 budget and to carry over the corresponding payment appropriations to the 2015 budget. i voted in favour of this because i believe that financial assistance should be provided to these countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. in order to implement urgently the european union solidarity fund of eur 79 726 440 for the minimisation of damage caused by the severe floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and for the floods in bulgaria in june 2014, as described in the european parliament's report a8-0075/2014, this budgetary correction was necessary and i obviously voted in favour of it.
in writing. following the events of 2014, when, during may, bad weather hit most of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia, leading to the worst flooding in those countries in recorded history, causing massive destruction of public and private infrastructure and thousands of family homes, followed by heavy rains in bulgaria in august, causing many floods leading to serious disturbances, the commission received and analysed three requests to mobilise the eu solidarity fund. this draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the fund in the amount of eur 79 726 440 in commitment and payment appropriations and aims to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2014 budget. we voted yes.
in writing. following the events of 2014 when, during may, bad weather hit most of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia, leading to the worst flooding in those countries in recorded history, causing massive destruction of thousands of homes and public and private infrastructure, followed by heavy rains in bulgaria in august, causing many floods that led to serious disturbances, the european commission received and analysed three requests to mobilise the eu solidarity fund. this draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the fund in the amount of eur 79726440 in commitment and payment appropriations and aims to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2014 budget. we voted yes.
in writing. - the conciliation committee did not reach agreement on draft amending budget no 2/2014 and therefore this draft amending budget aims to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus of the 2013 financial year, amounting to eur 1 005 million. the main components of this surplus consist of a positive result of eur 771 million in revenue, an under-execution of expenditure of eur 276 million and a negative exchange rate change of eur 42 million. on the revenue side, the increase is mainly due to interest on late payments and fines, while the amount of own resources actually collected is decreasing and the revenue from surpluses, balances and adjustments is also falling. on the expenditure side, the under-implementation of the 2013 and 2012 appropriations did not result in a decrease in absorption capacity, rather pointing to all available indicators of an insufficient payment appropriations in both the 2012 and 2013 budgets.
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2014 aims to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus for the financial year 2013 amounting to eur 1005 million. the main components of this surplus consist of a positive result of eur 771 million in revenue, an under-execution of expenditure of eur 276 million and a negative exchange rate change of eur 42 million. on the revenue side, the increase was mainly due to interest on late payments and fines (eur 1331 million), while the amount of own resources actually collected was falling compared with the amount already budgeted (eur 226 million), and revenue from surpluses, balances and adjustments was also falling (eur -360 million). regrettably, the approval of this draft amending budget will reduce the share of the gni-based contribution of the member states to the eu budget by eur 1005 million and therefore partially offset their contribution to the financing of the oda nos 3, 5 and 7/2014. the big winners, once again, are the big countries.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 8/2014 was submitted by the commission because the conciliation committee could not reach an agreement on draft amending budget no 2/2014, which had exactly the same objective and content as the op no 8/2014. this draft amending budget no 8/2014 is intended to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus for the financial year 2013 amounting to eur 1 005 million. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - whereas draft amending budget (db) no 8/2014 aims to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus for the financial year 2013 of eur 1 005 million, of which eur 771 million is from revenue (the increase is mainly due to interest on late payment and fines), eur 276 million from under-execution of expenditure (mainly the result of insufficient payment appropriations in the 2012 and 2013 budgets) and eur 42 million from a change in the exchange rate; it is noted that this mou was submitted only because mou no 2/2014, which had the same objective, was not agreed in the conciliation committee due to differences of positions between parliament and council and not due to the content. the approval of ope no 8/2014 will reduce the share of the gni-based contribution of the member states to the union budget by eur 1005 million, thus partially offsetting their contribution to the financing of ope no 3, 5 and 7/2014. i voted in favour.
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2014 aims to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus for the financial year 2013 amounting to eur 1 005 million. the main components of this surplus consist of a positive result of eur 771 million in revenue, an under-execution of expenditure of eur 276 million and a negative exchange rate change of eur 42 million. on the revenue side, the increase was mainly due to interest on late payments and fines (eur 1 331 million), while the amount of own resources actually collected was falling compared with the amount already budgeted (eur 226 million), and revenue from surpluses, balances and adjustments was also falling (eur -360 million). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the financial corrections for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015.
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2014 aims to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus for the financial year 2013 amounting to eur 1 005 million. the increase is mainly due to interest on late payments and fines (eur 1 331 million), while the amount of own resources actually collected is falling compared with the amount already budgeted (eur 226 million), and revenue from surpluses, balances and adjustments is also falling (eur -360 million); the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the financial corrections for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015.
in writing. - several member states paid less than the amount stipulated for their contributions to the union budget over several years, while others paid a higher amount, and these deviations were due to the significant statistical changes reported by the member states. it is also true that member states have in the past paid the full amount of their contributions to the union budget without significant delays and that certain member states benefited from the previous underestimation of their gni and were reluctant to pay the additional amounts due within the legal deadline. in view of this and in the interests of transparency, i believe that a report on the calculations and underlying data relating to the adjustments to the vat and gni balance sheet in the context of the budgetary procedure should be submitted to parliament annually, with sufficient time for its consideration, and that the decision of the member states on the dates and amounts of the payments should be notified to parliament.
in writing. in recent years, several member states have paid less than the amount stipulated for their contributions to the union budget, while others have paid more. these deviations were due to significant statistical changes reported by the member states. as a general rule, member states have in the past paid the full amount of their gni- and vat-based contributions to the eu budget without significant delays, even in times of crisis and severe budgetary pressure. while we acknowledge that the amounts of vat and gni-based own resources adjustments for 2014 are exceptionally high, we cannot help but question the reasons for this discrepancy, given the sophisticated mechanisms at the service of national accounts, in particular at the level of the countries where this issue arises. in this sense, we have doubts about this amendment, which is motivated by a statistical discrepancy which should be dealt with in its own way to prevent such situations from recurring. the most important thing is that the member states concerned pay what they owe, but we cannot fail to point out the particularly favourable conditions that are being provided, especially to a country like the united kingdom, which has long enjoyed unjustified and unfair prerogatives, such as the famous british cheque.
in writing. it has been found that several member states have paid less than the amount stipulated for their contributions to the union budget. the existing rules should result in the rapid correction of under- and overpayments.
in writing. under the communities' own resources system and in the light of the latest statistical analyses agreed by the member states, it appears that several member states have paid less than the amount stipulated for their gni and vat-based contributions to the union budget, and that others have paid more. some member states which have benefited from the underestimation of their gni have shown reluctance to pay the additional amounts due within the legal deadline. the council therefore asked the commission to authorise the deferral and payment in instalments of the amounts due. whereas, for reasons of transparency, a report on the calculations and underlying data relating to the adjustments to the vat and gni balance sheet in the context of the budgetary procedure should be submitted to parliament annually; recognising that the adjustment amounts are exceptionally high, which can represent a significant burden, and taking into account that this proposal is part of a broader negotiating package including the 2014 amending budgets and the 2015 budget, i voted in favour of this resolution calling for transparency in the deferral and payment in instalments process for the union budget.
in writing. in recent years, several member states have paid less than the amount stipulated for their contributions to the union budget, while others have paid more. these deviations were due to the significant statistical changes reported by the member states. as a general rule, member states have in the past paid the full amount of their gni-based and vat-based contributions to the union budget without significant delays, even in times of crisis and severe budgetary pressure. while we acknowledge that the amounts of vat and gni-based own resources adjustments for 2014 are exceptionally high, we cannot help but question the reasons for this discrepancy, given the sophisticated mechanisms at the service of national accounts, in particular at the level of the countries where this issue arises. in this sense, we have doubts about this amendment to the treaties, which is motivated by a statistical discrepancy which should be treated differently to prevent such situations from recurring.
in writing. in recent years, several member states have paid less than the amount stipulated for their contributions to the union budget, while others have paid more. as a general rule, member states have in the past paid the full amount of their gni-based and vat-based contributions to the union budget without significant delays, even in times of crisis and severe budgetary pressure. while we acknowledge that the amounts of vat and gni-based own resources adjustments for 2014 are exceptionally high, we cannot help but question the reasons for this discrepancy, given the sophisticated mechanisms at the service of national accounts, in particular at the level of the countries where this issue arises.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions in europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and candidate countries negotiating their accession. the fund may also be mobilised in the event of regional disasters. this decision of the parliament and of the council aims to enter in the 2015 budget the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations, corresponding to the advances that will have to be paid more quickly and efficiently in the event of a natural disaster in the coming year. with this decision we are sending a clear political message of solidarity, while delivering real assistance to the affected citizens more quickly.
in writing. - the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions in europe. countries negotiating their accession may receive financial assistance if the total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion or 0.6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is the lower. the european parliament has strongly advocated in the relevant negotiations with the council the need to provide financial assistance to member states to respond to a disaster more quickly than would be required under the normal procedure. this position prevailed in the negotiations and a maximum amount of eur 50 million should be entered in the budget each year for this purpose. i agree that the amounts are entered in the 2015 budget.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions in europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating their accession in the event of major natural disasters, if the total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is the lower. it can also be mobilized in the event of a regional disaster. i hope that with the amendments that have been introduced this instrument will become faster and more effective. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with the people of the affected regions. the conditions for mobilising the eusf are laid down in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, which, in its current version, provides for the possibility to mobilise the fund to a maximum amount of eur 50.000.000 for the payment of advances, including the entry of the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union (cf. article 4a (4)). this is a new provision designed to ensure that, following a preliminary assessment by the commission, financial assistance (in the form of advances) can be provided quickly and efficiently to member states to respond to disasters that may occur. the objective of this decision is precisely to enter in the 2015 budget the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations, corresponding to the advances to be paid in the event of a natural disaster in the coming year. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it is essential to create the conditions for rapid response to natural disasters.
in writing. the european union has set up the solidarity fund (eusf) as a way of responding in a solidarity-based and targeted way to regions affected by large-scale natural disasters. the conditions for mobilising this fund are laid down in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, with an annual ceiling of eur 500 000 000, of which eur 50 000 000 may be mobilised for the payment of advances. i therefore support the proposal to enter in the 2015 budget the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations (corresponding to any advances that may have to be paid) to respond more quickly and more effectively to minimising the effects of an unforeseen natural disaster. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european union agency for fundamental rights (the 'agency') and of the european police college (the 'agency').
in writing. having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, and in particular point 11 thereof, the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, the european union solidarity fund is hereby mobilised to provide the sum of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances. we have nothing to object to.
in writing. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 provides for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow for the financing of specifically identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the limits of the ceilings available under one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. after having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations, it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing from the general budget of the union for the financial year 2015 by an amount of eur 83 285 595, over and above the ceiling of subheading 1b, for the structural funds programmes for cyprus. these amounts will be used to complement the financing of the structural funds programmes for cyprus for the financial year 2015 with an amount of eur 100 000 000.
in writing. the document proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument above the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020) in order to supplement the financing of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015 with over eur 79,8 million in commitment appropriations, for a total amount of eur 100 million for the financial year 2015, to be used to complement the financing of the structural funds programmes for cyprus under the cohesion policy in 2014 and 2015 for the period 2015-2018. following on from this proposal, this report agrees to the mobilisation of this instrument to finance the additional allocation of the structural funds programmes up to a maximum of eur 83.26 million. given the complementary nature of the flexibility instrument, these additional payment appropriations serve to ensure the coverage of the additional commitment appropriations for cyprus, based on the envisaged payment profile. we voted in favour.
in writing. i agree to the mobilisation of this instrument to finance the structural funds programmes for cyprus. the crisis affecting this member state justifies this exceptional situation in order to finance the additional allocation of the structural funds programmes for cyprus under sub-category 1b up to a maximum amount of €83,26 million.
in writing. article 11 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument within the annual ceiling of eur 471 million (2011 prices) in order to allow for the financing of clearly identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the limits of one or more headings. after an analysis of all possibilities for reallocating appropriations under subheading 1b, it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 of eur 83 285 595, beyond the ceiling of subheading 1b, for the structural funds programmes for cyprus, in order to provide that country with a supplementary allocation under the structural funds for the financial year 2015 of a total amount of eur 100 000 000. i therefore voted in favour of this decision to mobilise the flexibility instrument.
in writing. the commission proposal for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, by an amount above the mff ceilings, to supplement the financing of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015 with more than eur 79,8 million in commitment appropriations, for a total amount of eur 100 million for the financial year 2015, to be used to supplement the financing of the structural funds programmes for cyprus under subheading 1b in 2014 and 2015 for the period 2015-2018. given the complementary nature of the flexibility instrument, these additional payment appropriations serve to ensure the coverage of the additional commitment appropriations for cyprus, based on the envisaged payment profile. we voted yes.
in writing. the document proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument above the mff ceilings in order to supplement the financing of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015 with an additional eur 79.8 million in commitment appropriations to be used to complement the financing of the structural funds programmes for cyprus under the cohesion policy. following on from this proposal, this report agrees to the mobilisation of this instrument, amending it to finance the additional allocation of the structural funds programmes by a maximum amount of eur 83.26 million. given the complementary nature of the flexibility instrument, these additional payment appropriations serve to ensure the coverage of the additional commitment appropriations for cyprus, based on the envisaged payment profile. we voted yes.
in writing. - the eu budget for 2015 will be €145.32 billion in commitment appropriations and €141.21 billion in payment appropriations. i participated in the hundreds of hours of negotiations that led to a good agreement on the 2014 budgets, the amending budgets and the 2015 budget. this budget enables us to achieve our priorities for growth and employment. the agreement also stabilises the european union's debt and prevents a budgetary collapse. we have managed to minimise the cuts that the council has proposed. in addition, we have strengthened commitments to programmes for jobs and growth, including research (horizon 2020), support for smes (cosme) and for youth (erasmus+). the european union's external solidarity has also been strengthened in the field of humanitarian aid. in 2015, as we have agreed with the commission and the council, we must have a plan to deal with the invoices that are already due and not paid. the european union must apply to itself the same rigour as it requires of the member states and, in addition, must fulfil its commitments, in particular those it has adopted in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. we have tabled a substantial number of amendments to the budget. unfortunately, they were defeated (with the votes against by the ps, psd and cds meps). among these proposals, we highlight:- improving access to finance for smes;- increasing the allocations for the youth employment initiative advocating the creation of jobs with permanent rights and contracts. - substantial increase in appropriations for the promotion of social cohesion and the alleviation of the most serious forms of poverty in the union; member states with unemployment rates above 10% and a rate at risk of poverty and/or social exclusion above 20% would have an operational programme funding rate of 100% of total eligible expenditure. - an increase of eur 77 million for the milk for schools heading, giving preference to local and/or national products; pilot project creation of shelter houses for women victims of domestic violence and sexual exploitation. it is regrettable that this budgetary package, once again, does not serve the development interests of each member state, revealing the enormous hypocrisy of those who, while announcing a new cycle, insist on the same old guidelines, refusing any kind of solidarity between member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2015 eu budget, which includes more money for the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, the erasmus+ student exchange programme and foreign policy, among other areas. the budget will have eur 145.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 141.2 billion in payment appropriations. the european parliament's priority during the negotiations with the council was to ensure payment of the bills due to companies, local authorities and other beneficiaries of european funds. an additional eur 4 billion was secured for the payment of outstanding invoices in 2014 through an amending budget. it also got the european institutions to commit to a plan to bring the value of outstanding invoices down to sustainable levels by 2016, as by the end of this year it is estimated that they will amount to around €23 billion. it turns out to be a good deal after some tough negotiations.
in writing. the adoption of the draft amending budgets for 2014, the union budget for the financial year 2015, set at eur 145 321,5 million and eur 141 214,0 million respectively in commitment and payment appropriations, as well as six joint declarations and three unilateral declarations, is at issue. once again we see that the budget has not been endowed with sufficient budgetary resources to meet the need for economic recovery and the objectives of social and territorial cohesion. it should be stressed that this budget falls short of the mff ceiling for most headings. we regret that this budget does not use the full amount of additional revenue from fines to cover outstanding payment needs, in a context where the debt is already close to eur 25 billion and at a time when we already know that in 2015 this debt will increase, given the mismatch between the appropriations for commitments and payments. in short, this budgetary package does not serve the interests of the eu and reveals the enormous hypocrisy of those who defend europe most, while at the same time refusing any kind of solidarity between member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu budget for 2015 because it fundamentally avoids the union having to work by twelfths, despite the council continuing to resist the will of the commission and parliament to boost economic and social recovery in europe. the budget provides for payments of eur 141.2 billion and commitments of eur 145.3 billion. the planned payments include additional amounts to those initially planned for horizon 2020 and erasmus. the agreement reached, which led to the adoption of the budget, also includes the immediate allocation of eur 3.5 billion for late payments, in particular to smes, local authorities and universities, and the council's commitment to present a solution to the accumulated payment deficit not covered by this additional tranche.
in writing. the adoption of the draft amending budgets for 2014, the union budget for the financial year 2015, set at eur 145 321,5 million and eur 141 214,0 million respectively in commitment and payment appropriations, as well as six joint declarations and three unilateral declarations, is at issue. once again we see that the budget has not been endowed with sufficient budgetary resources to meet the need for economic recovery and the objectives of social and territorial cohesion. it should be stressed that this budget falls short of the mff ceiling for most headings. we regret that this budget does not use the full amount of additional revenue from fines to cover outstanding payment needs, in a context where the debt is already close to eur 25 billion and at a time when we already know that in 2015 this debt will increase due to the mismatch between commitment and payment appropriations.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the draft budget for 2015 and that the council should adopt a decision on the draft budget for 2015 and the budget for 2015 in order to ensure that the budget is not used as a pretext for the adoption of the budget. in 2013, they were left with over 23 billion unpaid invoices and the amount in 2014 will be higher. these unpaid costs are harmful to smes, students, researchers and national and local authorities. parliament intends to pay what is due and at least to stabilise this debt so that the budget does not collapse. at the same time, it is intended that funds and programmes for the period 2014-2020 will start without further delay. in 2014, some 5 billion in extraordinary revenue from the eu budget was on the table, mostly from fines. what would be normal is that this extraordinary revenue was to pay off the debt. the council intended to take these 5 billion and put them into the national budgets. the council also intended to reduce commitments and payments by some eur 2100 million for the 2015 budget. in the end, we managed to mobilise eur 3.6 billion of the approximately eur 5 billion of extraordinary revenue in 2014, which allows us to stabilise the debt and avoid a budgetary collapse. in addition, we increased the commitment appropriations for the programmes for growth and jobs, namely research (horizon 2020), support for smes (cosme) and for youth (erasmus+). the eu budget for 2015 will thus be €145.32 billion in commitment appropriations and €141.21 billion in payment appropriations.
in writing. a budget reflects a set of policy options. in this case, the eu budget is the main instrument for carrying forward eu policies and guidelines. we strongly disagree with both. we also disagree on the budget for implementing them. no surprise, we voted against it. among the most important aspects, the strengthening of frontex, europol and the external action service is highlighted, withdrawing funding from the youth employment initiative, the progress programme (employment), direct payments from the common agricultural policy and international agreements, and the european maritime and fisheries fund. once again, the budget has not been endowed with sufficient budgetary resources to be able to respond to the consequences of the economic and social crisis and to the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion. it is underlined that this budget is still below the ceiling provided for in the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020) for this year. it is regrettable that the budget does not use the full amount of the additional revenue from fines to cover outstanding payment needs, in a context where the debt is already close to eur 25 billion. debt to increase due to the mismatch between commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. after tough negotiations, a good budget for the eu was approved. this new budget includes more money for the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, the erasmus+ student exchange programme and foreign policy, among other areas. the budget will have eur 145.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 141.2 billion in payment appropriations. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. we hope that this budget will be the budget of economic recovery and growth, with the consequent increase in jobs, and the right way out of the crisis. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - following difficult negotiations between parliament and the council, it was possible to reach an agreement on the 2014 budgets, the amending budgets and the 2015 budget which, despite some shortcomings, represents a significant advance on the council's initial position. it should be noted that the overall level of payment appropriations agreed for 2015 represents an increase of eur 1 217.1 million compared to the council's initial reading. the increase in the negotiations will also make it possible to respond to parliament's political priorities on growth and employment, and the budget for the horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+ programmes has been increased. the european union's external solidarity in humanitarian aid has also been strengthened. finally, while it is essential that efforts to reduce outstanding invoices to a sustainable level be stepped up in the coming years, the agreement reached will allow the most urgent payment needs to be met in 2014. it is therefore important to acknowledge the excellent work done by the representatives of parliament, among whom i would like to highlight mr josé manuel fernandes.
in writing. the adoption of the draft amending budgets for 2014, the union budget for the financial year 2015, set at eur 145 321,5 million and eur 141 214,0 million respectively in commitment and payment appropriations, as well as six joint declarations and three unilateral declarations, is at issue. once again we see that the budget has not been endowed with sufficient budgetary resources to meet the need for economic recovery and the objectives of social and territorial cohesion. it should be stressed that this budget falls short of the mff ceiling for most headings. the eu does not need a restrictive budget, and a budget that is also a trick, which kicks forward payment appropriations when in reality they are needed now more than ever to revive the economy. in short, this budgetary package does not serve the interests of the eu and reveals the enormous hypocrisy of those who defend europe most, while at the same time refusing any kind of solidarity between member states.
in writing. regulation 1071/2009 lays down common rules on the exercise of the occupation of road haulage operator, which contribute, among other factors, to increasing road safety and the level of professional qualification of hauliers. it is incumbent upon the european commission, by means of delegated acts, to draw up a list of the categories, types and degrees of seriousness of serious infringements of community rules. i consider that the list drawn up does not meet the requirements of parliament and in some cases exceeds the power delegated to it, and that this draft regulation is therefore not compatible with the objective and content of the basic regulation 1071/2009 and that the commission should withdraw this draft regulation and submit a new one to parliament.
in writing. this resolution opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation which complements an existing one (ec/1071/2009) concerning the classification of serious infringements of union rules which may lead to the loss of the competence of road hauliers. the resolution considers that the list of infringements and the degree of seriousness of the infringements presented by the commission is incomplete and should be rejected as such. we support this position. the list contains gaps in the area of illegal cabotage and its impact on road workers and is not balanced with national regulations, in particular with regard to social issues. the minimalist nature of the commission's proposal is a good indication of the interests the commission serves and the objectives it pursues. the legislative framework in force at eu level has always given priority to the objectives of promoting the sacrosanct free competition (and the inevitable monopolistic concentration that always follows it) in order to achieve the said internal market, to the detriment of the objectives of defending and strengthening the promotion of the health and safety of workers in the sector.
in writing. i agree that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 21 october 2009 establishing common rules as regards the requirements for the exercise of the occupation of road transport operator and repealing council directive 96/26/ec. it is appropriate for the commission to present a new list of serious infringements of union rules which may lead to the loss of the road transport operator's fitness to perform the transport service.
in writing. the completion of an internal market in road transport with conditions of fair competition would certainly improve the quality of service and increase road safety. however, the draft commission regulation does not explicitly and sufficiently exhaustively list serious infringements of union rules that could lead to the loss of the road haulier's fitness to carry out the transport operation, nor does it provide for rules on illegal cabotage, despite its potential to create a risk of death or serious injury. since the draft regulation is not compatible with the objective pursued, nor with the content of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 21 october 2009, i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation as regards the classification of serious infringements of union rules which may lead to the loss of the road haulage operator's fitness to operate.
in writing. this resolution opposes the proposal from the delegation of power to the commission to draw up a list of the categories, types and degrees of seriousness of offences which lead to the loss of the road haulage operator's competence, in order to adapt annexes i, ii and iii to the regulation in question. the resolution considers that the proposed document is incompatible with the objective of the existing regulation, as the list contains gaps in the area of illegal cabotage and its impact on road workers, and is not balanced with national regulations, particularly as regards social issues. this is an instrument which, by helping to enforce the labour law of each member state, protects workers with regard to maximum driving time and minimum rest periods, improving working conditions and road safety. however, it also has its negative aspects, since it is part of the objective of ensuring the completion of an internal eu road transport market which requires the uniform application of common rules for access to the activity of road haulage or road passenger transport operator, an objective which, in the neoliberal conditions in which the union market is immersed, has dire consequences, in particular for the survival of micro and smes.
in writing. fuel suppliers shall report life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions per unit of fuel energy and energy supplied. it is known that there are significant differences in ghg emission intensity between fuels such as traditional crude oil and unconventional feedstocks (e.g. oil sands), with emissions on average higher in the latter. however, the commission ignores these differences and assumes common emission values for the different fuels. a clear favour to multinationals involved in the exploitation of unconventional fuels, which grossly underestimates the ghg emissions associated with them. this is an integral part of the free trade agreement which the european commission is negotiating with canada - a country with significant projects in the field of unconventional oil - and which is intended to please the economic groups concerned by this agreement. the resolution opposes the adoption of the draft directive and calls on the commission to withdraw it and to present a new one, based on the requirement to report default average ghg intensity values, broken down by type of raw material, for petrol and diesel fuel, while allowing suppliers to report actual values. we voted in favour.
in writing. directive 98/70/eu (revised) on the specification of petrol and diesel fuel requires suppliers to report annually on life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions per unit of fuel and energy supplied in each member state and to reduce the life cycle ghg emissions intensity of fuels supplied by 31 december 2020 by at least 6% compared to the european average of life cycle emissions per unit of energy produced from fossil fuels in 2010. i consider that the draft council directive is not compatible with the purpose and content of directive 98/70/eu. it would therefore be important for the commission to present a proposal compatible with that directive.
in writing. i voted against this resolution opposing the adoption of the draft council directive laying down the calculation methods and reporting requirements pursuant to the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. the commission considers that the appropriate measures for calculating and measuring compliance with the already established 6% reduction in greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions are sufficient. in this context, the use of a standard average value to represent the unit of ghg emission intensity by fuel type, as well as the annual reports prepared by suppliers and member states, has created a viable and reliable basis for the commission to comply with the existing directive.
in writing. we know that there are significant differences in ghg emission intensity between fuels such as traditional crude oil and unconventional raw materials (e.g. oil sands), with emissions on average higher in the latter. the commission ignores these differences and assumes common emission values for different fuels, which is a clear favour to multinationals involved in the exploitation of unconventional fuels, which grossly underestimate the associated ghg emissions. an indissociable favour of the free trade agreement which the european commission is negotiating with canada. the resolution opposes the adoption of the draft directive and calls on the commission to withdraw it and to present a new one, based on the requirement to report default average ghg intensity values broken down by type of raw material, for petrol and diesel fuel, while allowing suppliers to report actual values. we voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive laying down the calculation methods and reporting requirements under directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels because i believe that the european union has to take a consistent position on the fight against climate change, the promotion of clean energy and the energy transition towards a sustainable growth model.
in writing. fuel suppliers shall report life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions per unit of fuel energy and energy supplied. it is known that there are significant differences in ghg emission intensity between fuels such as traditional crude oil and unconventional feedstocks (e.g. tar sands), with emissions on average higher in the latter. however, the european commission ignores these differences and assumes common emission values for the different fuels. a clear favour to multinationals involved in the exploitation of unconventional fuels, which grossly underestimates the ghg emissions associated with them. the resolution opposes the adoption of the draft directive and calls on the commission to withdraw it and to present a new one, based on the requirement to report default average ghg intensity values broken down by type of raw material, for petrol and diesel fuel, while allowing suppliers to report actual values. we voted in favour.
in writing. the european commission proposes to reduce the minimum conservation reference size for baltic cod from 38 to 35 cm. there are pertinent reasons for this. the data point to a reduction in the average size of cod in the baltic (after maturation), which has led to an increase in discards in recent years. reducing the minimum catch size will not increase mortality, as the fishing gear will remain the same. the opinion of the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries points out that there are no risks to the protection of juveniles, since spawning occurs at lengths of less than 35 cm due to the reduction of the average size. the 35 cm is already the minimum reference size for other fishing areas, such as the north sea. in view of the new rules of the common fisheries policy, which prohibit discards, failure to reduce the minimum size to 35 cm would mean that a considerable part of the fish landed could not enter the normal commercial circuit and would have to be sent for processing into flour. there is therefore a scientific basis for the commission's proposal, as well as strong economic and social reasons. that is why we voted against the resolution which sought to object to this proposal.
in writing. i agree that the reduction of the minimum conservation reference size for cod in the baltic sea proposed by the commission could harm the reproductive capacity of the stocks. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution, which seeks to put an end to this pretence.
in writing. i voted against this resolution establishing a return plan for the baltic sea because i consider that the reduction of the minimum reference size for cod conservation in the baltic sea will not affect the reproductive capacity of the stocks, as the council has decided to make reductions in the quotas of the total allowable catches (tacs) of 7% in the western baltic and 22% in the eastern baltic.
in writing. the european commission proposes in this resolution to reduce the minimum conservation reference size for baltic cod from 38 to 35 cm. there are pertinent reasons for this. the reduction in the minimum catch size will not increase mortality, as the fishing gear will remain the same and the opinion of the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries indicates that there are no risks to the protection of juveniles, as spawning occurs at lengths below 35 cm due to the reduction in average size. in view of the new rules of the common fisheries policy, which prohibit discards, failure to reduce the minimum size to 35 cm would mean that a considerable part of the fish landed could not enter the normal commercial circuit and would have to be sent for processing into flour. there is therefore a scientific basis for the commission's proposal, in addition to weighty economic and social reasons. that is why we voted against the resolution which sought to object to this proposal.
in writing. the european commission proposes to reduce the minimum conservation reference size for baltic cod from 38 to 35 cm. there are pertinent reasons for this. the data point to a reduction in the average size of cod in the baltic (after maturation), which has led to an increase in discards in recent years. the opinion of the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries points out that there are no risks to the protection of juveniles, since spawning occurs at lengths of less than 35 cm due to the reduction in average size. the 35 cm is already the minimum reference size for other fishing areas, such as the north sea, and we therefore voted against the resolution which sought to object to this proposal.
in writing. this resolution is intended to reject the commission delegated act concerning the insurance and reinsurance business and its exercise, in particular as regards the calibration of the risk factors used in the standard formula for the calculation of the solvency capital requirement, namely the classification and eligibility of own funds, the structure and calibration of the shareholder risk sub-module, the treatment of future premiums and the calculation of the risk margin. the delegated act adopted by the commission on 10 october, in addition to not taking into account the technical recommendations of caesspcr/eiopa, results in a significantly lower calibration of the risk factors used in the standard formula for the calculation of the solvency capital requirement, which clearly works in favour of the insurance industry and is contrary to the interests of policyholders in defending and protecting themselves against the risks taken by insurance undertakings. reasons why we voted for it.
in writing. i have tabled my vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution objecting to the european commission's delegated regulation supplementing the directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance. i share the view that in several cases the commission's position deviates from the technical recommendations made, which results in a significantly lower calibration of the risk factors used in the standard formula for calculating the solvency capital requirement. however, the european commission does not provide any evidence that these calibrations comply with article 101, basing such considerations on political reasons to depart from the formula recommended by caesspcr/eiopa. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's position that this delegated regulation cannot enter into force.
in writing. i voted against this motion for a resolution opposing the commission delegated regulation as i consider that the delegated act does not depart from the technical recommendations made and that the classification and eligibility of own funds, the structure and calibration of the shareholder risk sub-module, the treatment of future premiums and the calculation of the risk margin as submitted to the commission by caesspcr/eiopa were taken into account in the drafting process of the act.
in writing. this resolution is intended to reject the commission delegated act as regards the insurance and reinsurance business and the calibration of risk factors used in the standard formula for calculating the capital requirement, namely the classification and eligibility of own funds, the structure and calibration of the shareholder risk sub-module, the treatment of future premiums and the calculation of the risk margin. the delegated act adopted by the commission on 10 october, in addition to not taking into account the technical recommendations of the caesspcr/eiopa, results in a significantly lower calibration of the risk factors used in the standard formula for the calculation of the solvency capital requirement, clearly working in favour of the insurance industry and against the interests of policyholders in defending and protecting themselves against the risks taken by insurance undertakings.
the treaty of lisbon has conferred on the european parliament competences in the field of internal security, in particular with regard to the internal security strategy. at the end of the previous one, parliament shall approve what it considers should be the priorities of the internal security strategy for 2015-2019. the aim is to ensure democratic control and respect for fundamental rights, thus contributing to a genuine area of freedom, security and justice.
the reference to the emergence of new security threats since the establishment of the current esi, citing the examples of cybersecurity, trafficking in human beings, the fight against terrorism and related issues, as well as organised crime, money laundering and corruption, is proof of the failure of the eu's policy guidelines and the responsibilities of this same strategy in the period that is now ending. we must reject the hypocritical version of the security problem which conceals its own responsibilities. one example is human trafficking, which continues to be a tragedy for thousands of people, and in particular for immigrants who are pushed into the hands of criminal organizations by the repressive and criminalising policies of eu immigration. another example is the support of terrorist organisations through the provision of arms, training and funding, with the aim of destabilising countries such as syria. this resolution confirms that the security problems will never be solved by those who not only largely caused them but are preparing policies that will aggravate them.
in writing. the lisbon treaty laid the foundations for the development of an eu security policy, closely shared by the eu and the member states, based on the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights and solidarity, subject to democratic oversight at european and national level and respecting the principle of subsidiarity. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament the role of a full-fledged actor in security policy matters, with a view to ensuring democratic control, and thus authorises parliament to participate actively in the definition of priorities in this area and to engage with all relevant actors at eu and national level with a view to developing a comprehensive, targeted and effective security policy in the eu. in the face of the new challenges facing the eu, it is necessary to draw up a new esi for the next four years, which takes into account all the new threats and challenges that arise. that is why i am voting in favour.
following the treaty of lisbon, which laid the foundations for the development of a security policy for the european union (eu) and gave the european parliament the role of a full-fledged actor in security policy matters, empowering it to engage in dialogue with all national and community actors with a view to developing a comprehensive, targeted and effective security policy in the eu. whereas the security situation in europe has changed radically in recent years due to the emergence of new conflicts, becoming a cross-border and cross-sectoral problem, and whereas freedom, security and justice are objectives which must be pursued in parallel; whereas the development of a new internal security strategy (iss) for the next four years should take into account new security threats and the entry of the charter of fundamental rights into eu law; the radicalisation and the rapid growth in the number of eu nationals joining terrorist organisations and then returning to the european territory is worrying. finally, stressing the need to ensure adequate financial resources for the proper implementation of the measures provided for in the esi, i voted in favour of this resolution on the renewal of the esi.
in writing. at a time when, according to a recent europol assessment, we are witnessing an increase in serious and organised crime and, at the same time, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts, i consider it extremely important, i would even say fundamental, that a renewal of the eu's internal security strategy (iss) be carried out for the next four years. i would therefore stress the relevance of the oral question which gave rise to this resolution, which i voted in favour of. i would also point out that it is essential, in order to promote the effectiveness of the esi, that a thorough analysis of security threats is carried out in close cooperation between europol, other relevant eu bodies and the member states, especially as the lisbon treaty has laid the foundations for the development of a security policy that is shared with the member states. a policy based on the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights and in which the european parliament plays a fully-fledged role in the process, with a view to democratic control and the development of a comprehensive, well-oriented and effective policy in the european union.
the reference to the emergence of new security threats since the establishment of the current esi, citing the examples of cybersecurity, trafficking in human beings, the fight against terrorism and related issues, as well as organised crime, money laundering and corruption, is proof of the failure of the political orientations of the majority of the ep and the responsibilities of this same strategy in the period that is now ending. we must refute the hypocritical version of the security problem. this approach is no more than a way of avoiding responsibility. this resolution confirms that security problems will never be solved by those who not only caused them but are preparing policies that will aggravate them.
the reference to the emergence of new security threats since the establishment of the current esi, citing the examples of cybersecurity, trafficking in human beings, the fight against terrorism, as well as organised crime, money laundering and corruption, is proof of the failure of the political orientations of the ep majority and its responsibilities in the period now ending. we must reject the hypocritical version of the problem of safety which, although important, is only intended to avoid responsibility. one example is human trafficking, which continues to be a tragedy for thousands of people, and in particular for immigrants who are pushed into the hands of criminal organizations by the repressive and criminalising policies of the eu. another example is the problem of eu member state nationals travelling to conflict zones and joining terrorist organisations, which serves to disguise support for these terrorist organisations through the provision of weapons, training and funding, with the aim of destabilising syria. this resolution confirms that security problems will never be solved by those who not only caused them but are preparing policies that will aggravate them.
in writing. the position now taken by the european parliament, which is in all respects justified, should, among other things, encourage greater involvement of the european union in the process of resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict. the recognition of the right to establish a palestinian state with the pre-1967 borders is a symbolic act of the highest importance. for all those who advocate the need for the coexistence of the two states, this moment is of particular importance.
in writing. it is urgent to put an end to the brutal violence that is destroying lives in both israel and palestine. and it is essential to expose and punish war crimes committed by both sides against both innocent civilians and by destroying civilian infrastructure. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. i also believe it is fundamental to fight those who make radical readings of their religion and justify the legitimacy of killing in the name of god. there will be few things more despicable than invoking god to exercise violence, spread terror and take human lives.
in writing. - for more than half a century, the achievement of a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians has been a matter of great concern to the international community, including the european union. it is noted that the united nations general assembly decided on 29 november 2012 to grant palestine the status of a non-member observer state to the un. it should be noted that the recognition of the state of palestine is a matter for the member states. this does not mean that political resolutions cannot be adopted on the subject. i therefore support the recognition of the palestinian state and the two-state solution, believing that both sides must go hand in hand with the deepening of the peace negotiations, which must progress. the solution of two-state coexistence must be based on the 1967 borders and jerusalem as the capital of both, i.e. a secure state of israel and an independent, democratic, territorially continuous and viable state of palestine living side by side in peace and security, which implies the recognition of the right to self-determination and full respect for international law.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution. despite its shortcomings and limitations, it is a minimal sign of recognition of the inalienable right of the palestinian people to a state. we cannot fail to point out some of the negative aspects of the resolution, namely: - the insistence on security applied only to the state of israel (as if palestine did not need security), seeking to create the idea that the borders of the state of palestine are drawn in accordance with this objective; - the distinction between terrorism and violence and the condemnation of all violent protest, thus denying the right of palestinians to revolt and resist the israeli occupation; - the absence of any reference to united nations resolutions (181, 194, 248, 332) or to the withdrawal of troops from the occupied territories, which, among other objectives, constitutes a way of marginalizing the un in this process; - it calls for a common eu position, which in the current context, when there are countries such as sweden that have already recognised palestine, means an attempt to limit the sovereign power of the member states to decide on recognition, and a brake on countries that want to recognise the state of palestine.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i believe that the european parliament should join the various national parliaments which have already called for the recognition of the state of palestine. however, i refused to co-sign it on behalf of my political group because i consider that the compromise solution reflected in the first paragraph of this joint resolution falls short of what i believe the ep's position should be by urging all eu member states to recognise the state of palestine. the statement that the european parliament agrees with the principle of palestinian self-determination is nothing new, it is a position repeatedly expressed by this parliament in all the resolutions in which it has called for coexistence between the two states, the state of israel and the state of palestine. the movement for the universal recognition of the state of palestine is growing. apart from the palestinians, israel needs the establishment of an independent, democratic and secure state in its neighbourhood.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the principle of recognition of the palestinian state, as i believe that this is a step in the right direction. the recognition of the palestinian state, its people and its borders, and the end of the occupation, is an obligation of the international community with a view to peace in the region. the member states must now formally recognise the palestinian state, based on the 1967 borders and with east jerusalem as its capital. the right of the palestinian people to self-determination has been enshrined in numerous international resolutions for the past 66 years. we call on the parties concerned to take action to make the two-state solution viable by ending the occupation and the illegal walls.
in writing. the recognition of the state of palestine has been a long dragging issue. the european parliament's initiative will hopefully help to find a solution that is acceptable to both sides. a final and lasting agreement will only be possible when a solution is found, duly negotiated between the parties, which will enable both peoples to live in harmony, development and peace. an effort by the palestinian authority is needed to negotiate these solutions with the israeli state until a solution is reached of two-state coexistence based on the 1967 borders and jerusalem as the capital of both, i.e. a secure state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable state of palestine living side by side in peace and security. i call for the resumption of direct peace talks between israel and the palestinian authority. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it reaffirms the principle of the coexistence of two states and encourages future recognition of palestine as a state, following the resumption and deepening of peace negotiations and the articulation of positions among eu member states.
in writing. recalling that the european union has repeatedly reiterated the principle of a two-state solution, israel and palestine living side by side in peace and security, calling on the parties to resolve all relevant issues through negotiations which should be resumed immediately, i voted in favour of this resolution as i agree with the recognition of the palestinian state within the wider framework of recognition of the state of israel by palestine and the arab world in general. in my view, we should focus on resuming the negotiations, stressing that the european union and this parliament in particular should play a central role in the future negotiations between the two sides, in the immediate end of the violence, in the return to the 1967 borders as a basis for negotiations for the inevitable land swaps that will take place later and in the immediate end of settlement expansion. i would like to conclude by stressing that i believe that the way forward should be the one indicated by this resolution and also by the resolution recently adopted by the portuguese parliament, in the sense that the recognition of palestine by each of the member states should be carried out in coordination with the european union and in full compliance with the principles laid down by international law.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution despite its partial alignment with zionism. this resolution is a minimum sign of recognition of the inalienable right of the palestinian people to a state. we believe, however, that the insistence on security only applied to the state of israel (as if palestine does not need security) seeks to create the idea that the borders of the state of palestine are drawn in accordance with this objective. we note the distinction between terrorism and violence and the condemnation of all violent protest, thus denying the right of palestinians to revolt and resist the israeli occupation. finally, we note the absence of any reference to united nations resolutions (181, 194, 248, 332) or to the withdrawal of troops from the occupied territories, which, among other objectives, is a way of marginalizing the un in this process.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution because we consider that, although it is based on the view so often promoted by zionism, it is a minimum sign of recognition of the inalienable right of the palestinian people to a state. however, we cannot fail to point out some negative aspects, namely:- the insistence on security only applied to the state of israel (as if palestine does not need security), seeking to create the idea that the borders of the state of palestine are drawn in accordance with this objective;- the distinction between terrorism and violence and the condemnation of all violent protest, thus denying the right of palestinians to insurrection and resistance in the face of israeli occupation;- the absence of reference to un resolutions (181, 194, 248, 332) or withdrawal from the occupied territories, which, among other objectives, is a way of marginalizing the un in this final process; - calls for a common eu position, which in the present context, when there are countries such as sweden which have already recognised palestine, means an attempt to limit the sovereign power of member states to decide on recognition, and a brake on countries which want to recognise the state of palestine.
in writing. we agree that the steel sector and the steel industry have always been one of the pillars of industrial economies. we are therefore surprised that the resolution does not consider how wrong the eu's policy towards the sector has been, allowing such inequalities and transfers to the private sector to be dug up within and between member states, particularly in portugal where the sector has already been quite developed and is now deeply constrained. we support the resolution when it calls for the development of industrial production in all member states, when it warns of energy prices and environmental issues, or when it stresses the need to invest in research and innovation. however, we regret that no concrete proposals are being made at social level to preserve existing jobs and to prevent the creation of precarious jobs in the sector. as regards state aid to energy-intensive industries, it is argued that it should not distort the internal market by ensuring a level playing field for undertakings. in this chapter, the limitations imposed by the treaties are aimed at preventing the necessary support for national production and enterprises by imposing the law of the strongest and monopolistic concentration at eu level. that is why we abstained.
european economic recovery depends to a large extent on the existence of a solid manufacturing industry in which the steel industry plays a central role and that manufacturing industry depends on domestic demand and supply. it is therefore necessary to speed up the preparation of the industrial policy package announced for the first part of 2015 in order to revive european industry on the world market, to ensure a level playing field and to ensure high social and environmental standards in the european union, while pushing for reciprocity from third countries. an ambitious approach to reindustrialisation in the context of the europe 2020 mid-term review is of vital importance to achieve a genuine eu industrial policy and to relaunch the eu's industrial competitiveness at global level. a policy to encourage industrial production is essential to achieve job creation and economic growth. that is why i am voting in favour.
the steel sector plays a key role in europe's economy and industry, providing more than 350 000 direct jobs and several million jobs in related industries, including the recycling supply chain. in recent years, the steel industry has faced some difficulties, caused in particular by an investment crisis, a slump in global demand, rising energy costs and the increased outsourcing of european production. it is therefore necessary to adopt measures to support this sector, aimed at removing obstacles and threats to its competitiveness, promoting its sustainability and making it able to react to changing conditions on european and non-european markets. the resolution contains a set of proposals aimed at protecting the eu steel industry and its workers. i voted in favour of the proposed measures because i believe that they will generally help to make the eu steel industry more competitive at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that the european union needs a functioning, competitive and secure steel industry that can contribute to growth and prosperity in europe. it is true that this sector has suffered a sharp decline in demand, leading to increased unemployment, but it is also true that the eu must preserve the activities which constitute its industrial fabric, ensuring the security of energy supply through internal demand. as such, i support the commission's action plan for the steel sector, but draw attention to the need to draw up an analysis report on the current situation of the steel industry on our continent, analysing its economic, social and environmental impact and reflecting on medium and long-term support initiatives. finally, i would point out the need to place this support within a wider framework of support for european manufacturing industry, since only in this way (in a sound way and by investing in research, innovation, the qualification of human resources and energy efficiency, and possibly by using community funds) can its competitiveness be ensured, its added value stimulated and its important social role enhanced.
in writing. the steel sector and the steel industry have always been one of the pillars of industrial economies. we are therefore surprised that the resolution does not include an assessment of eu policy for the sector, which has allowed such inequalities to be dug up within and between member states and transferred to the private sector, particularly in portugal, where the sector was already highly developed and is now deeply depressed. we agree with the resolution when it calls for the development of industrial production in all member states, when it warns of energy prices and environmental issues, or when it stresses the need for investment in research and innovation. however, we regret that no concrete proposals are being made at social level to preserve existing jobs and to prevent the creation of precarious jobs in the sector. as regards state aid to energy-intensive industries, it is argued that it should not distort the internal market by ensuring a level playing field for undertakings. but let us not forget how unfair the rules of competition and the limitation of state aid are, when everyone is aware of the urgent need to support national production. that is why we abstained.
in writing. in 2013, more than 100,000 migrants attempted to cross the mediterranean, of whom more than 500 are estimated to have died or disappeared. according to the iom, 2014 was the deadliest year for migrants, with an estimated 3,000 people dying trying to cross the mediterranean. in fact, experts confirm that the likelihood of migrants dying while making this crossing has been increasing in recent years. this year, new rules for search and rescue operations in frontex joint operations, for which i was rapporteur, come into force. this new instrument does not, however, cover strictly national search and rescue operations. in view of the migratory pressure in the mediterranean, this dual legal system can be problematic. one year after parliament's resolution on the lampedusa tragedy, this resolution is on the right track: we must tackle the root of the problems. however, we must also deal with what is happening in the mediterranean quickly. or we risk it becoming a graveyard.
in writing. this resolution insists on support for an immigration policy which is responsible for the deaths of thousands of people in the mediterranean, the overwhelming majority of them young people seeking to flee war, crime, unemployment, poverty and hunger, in search of better living conditions for themselves and their families, despite the risks of the crossing. strengthening border and security policy and advocating the improvement of the future role of frontex makes clear the intention to maintain and deepen a policy that has turned the eu into a fortress where, in order to arrive, migrants have to submit to trafficking and criminal networks that proliferate in the shadow of the repression and criminalization of migrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the right-wing and social-democratic parties' call for these policies to be deepened allows us to anticipate the limits of the possible establishment of a committee of inquiry. we voted against it.
in writing. the situation in the mediterranean with regard to immigrants is very worrying and must be addressed seriously. we must join forces, the whole eu, to stop the deaths in that sea. only a comprehensive solution will be effective.
in writing. the different conflicts in the middle east have intensified migration flows to the member states of the european union, and the various shipwrecks in the mediterranean have raised the alarm about the ongoing humanitarian situation (more than 3000 deaths in 2014). considering that the italian rescue operation, called mare nostrum, will be phased out and the contributions to the joint operation triton are uncertain, it is important to reiterate the need for a coordinated policy at european level (through frontex and the eaggf) and, it is also important that the eu takes its share of responsibility and solidarity towards the member states hosting the largest number of refugees. similarly, voluntary return policies need to be encouraged, while ensuring the protection of the rights of all migrants and providing safe and legal access to the eu asylum system. finally, it is necessary to consider an analysis of how the funds for internal affairs are spent in this context, in particular in the fight against smuggling and trafficking. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution calling for parliament to draw up a strategic own-initiative report before the end of 2015.
in writing. it seems to me to be elementary justice and common sense to take a broad approach to migration, very particularly to economic migration and very specifically to the migration routes that pass through southern europe, whether in the mediterranean (including the adriatic), via the anatolian peninsula or across the european atlantic islands. i therefore stress the relevance of this oral question and the content of this resolution, which i voted in favour of, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur in advance. given the rapid and frightening evolution of the situation, immediate action is required from the european commission and the member states, and i would therefore like to highlight the inclusion in the commission's work programme for 2015 of the chapter a european agenda on migration, which aims to develop a new approach to legal migration to make the eu an attractive destination for talent and skills and to improve the management of migration flows to the eu through greater cooperation with third countries, solidarity between member states and the fight against trafficking in human beings, as can be seen in the text presented by the commission here in strasbourg on 16 december and which i now hope to see implemented over the next year.
in writing. this resolution does not back down in its support for an eu immigration policy which is responsible for the deaths of thousands of people in the mediterranean, the overwhelming majority of them young people seeking to escape from war, crime, unemployment, poverty and hunger, in search of better living conditions for themselves and their families, despite the risks of the crossing. the strengthening of frontex makes clear the intention to maintain and deepen a policy which has turned the eu into a fortress where, in order to arrive, migrants have to submit to trafficking and criminal networks which proliferate in the shadow of the repression and criminalisation of migrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the defence of the deepening of these policies allows us to anticipate the limits of the possible establishment of a committee of inquiry in the ep. it would be naïve to assume that the same majority that treats immigrants as criminals could lead a commission of inquiry to draw different conclusions. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. with this resolution, the majority of the ep does not take a step back from its support for an eu immigration policy which is responsible for the deaths of thousands of people in the mediterranean seeking better living conditions for themselves and their families despite the risks of the crossing. strengthening border and security policy and advocating the improvement of the future role of frontex make clear the intention to maintain and deepen a policy that has turned the eu into a fortress where, in order to arrive, migrants have to submit to trafficking and criminal networks that proliferate in the shadow of the repression and criminalization of migrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the right-wing and social democrats' call for these policies to be deepened allows us to anticipate the limits of the possible establishment of a committee of inquiry in the ep. it would be naïve to assume that the same majority that treats immigrants as criminals could lead a commission of inquiry to draw different conclusions. that is why we are voting against it.
mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, in 2007 and in 2006, this parliament investigated this case through a committee which i had the honour of chairing. some said at the time that it was impossible for a state governed by the rule of law like the united states of america to commit the illegal acts that were attributed to it. the us authorities claimed that the allegations were unfounded. they lied! in september 2006 we had a witness we hadn't asked for: george w. bush, then president of the united states of america, confirmed to the world the extraordinary rendition programme and acknowledged that the abductions were true, that detainees were not subjected to a court, that secret prisons existed, but he vehemently denied that torture was used. he lied, once again, as the us senate report just published showed. this senate report leaves us with four important messages. first, it takes courage to have moral authority, as senator feinstein pointed out, and well, only a mature democracy is able to review its own mistakes and contribute to preventing them from being repeated in the future. second, we cannot give up on bringing the truth to the surface. it is not obvious that the truth will always come out, especially when national governments create obstacles to the deepening of what has happened, without our making an effort. i repeat what i have said here more than once: under no circumstances can state secrets override fundamental, inalienable rights. this parliament must continue its efforts and contribute to the full clarification of what has happened in the european union. thirdly, the ends do not justify the means. torture is not morally acceptable, it is condemned by international law and it is not even effective, as this report proves and as senator mccain has already said. and finally, there is a deficit in the democratic control of the secret services. the report is proof that for several years democratic control over the secret services has not worked. the secret services must be subject to greater democratic control and this must also happen in the european union. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162, paragraph 8)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i'm sure i agree with you completely. the added value of the inquiry is not just to ascertain responsibility. that is important, but as i said, we must hold everyone accountable, those who did it, those who authorised it, and those who kept it quiet. but above all, the added value of the survey is to ensure that we learn from the past and that we learn from the lessons so that we do not repeat the same mistakes in the future.
the senate report confirms everything that the european parliament and council of europe reports have already exposed since 2007, but adds startling new details, both about the torture and other crimes practiced by the cia in the extraordinary renditions program, about the network of secret prisons to relocate and outsource torture to assad, gaddafi or mubarak's stooges, and about the extent of the lies and omissions of the cia and the bush administration to deceive congress and the american and global public. several european governments may also have been misled, but others knew and acquiesced to the cia operation. the senate blocks the names of 25 european countries. it is up to this parliament to say what they are. some of the accomplices did more than just authorize planes to fly over to transport the prisoners. the senate confirms that there have been secret arrests in europe. poland, lithuania and romania have already had to admit what they have denied before this parliament. the european parliament has a duty to re-establish a mechanism for checking the participation of the member states of the european union in this programme carried out on behalf of the united states. it is essential to end impunity. the first flights to guantanamo bay, on november 11, 2002, carried suspected terrorists across my country, portugal. between flights, overflying, stopovers, technical stops, between 2002 and 2007 are more than a hundred times that the cia used portuguese territory in the process of committing these crimes. but it remains to be seen whether the portuguese authorities were just stupid and incompetent and deceived by the united states or were they complicit and active participants in this programme? it is yet to be ascertained whether the stopovers involved detention and torture on national soil, for example at the lages base in the azores. the government of my party - i say this with shame and bitterness - since 2006 has done everything to obstruct the knowledge of the truth by preventing a parliamentary inquiry, by hindering a judicial inquiry, by preventing scrutiny of the secret services, and by denying the european parliament and the national parliament lists of authorised flights to and from guantanamo, which i was able to obtain and hand over to the inquiry committee of this parliament. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that all these efforts were made to cover up his own responsibilities and not to jeopardise the chances of re-electing the former portuguese prime minister, durão barroso, as head of the european commission, who was an active accomplice in this cia programme between 2002 and 2005. the search for the truth in portugal is important for portugal and for europe. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162, paragraph 8)
he asks under the blue card procedure. does the commissioner think that we can believe public speeches in favour of human rights by entities which set up concentration camps like guantanamo or allow the clandestine practice of torture such as that at abu ghraib and that which is now being denounced by the us senate? do you think that the european authorities, the european countries which have allowed torture by the cia on their territory, should be sanctioned by the institutions of the european union?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. the european parliament has already done this, and that is exactly why i think we must now continue our work, we must find out who the european perpetrators are, we must bring them to justice. crime cannot go unpunished. the law is for everyone, and it is for those who were agents on the ground and it is also for those who were the authors of this barbarity committed by the cia, with european complicity.
member of the commission. - mr president, the debate in this chamber on the senate report has brought to light, together with the evidence it gives us, a hard reality, a hard truth, and it really puts all of us in front of our responsibilities. and this report deserves to be applauded. i note that all the forces of democracy in this area unequivocally condemn torture and any practice that goes beyond the rule of law, respect for human rights, the principles and values on which the european construction is founded. i said in my speech that torture is a crime and those responsible are the responsibility of the states themselves to punish them. but there was also a criticism in this area: that europe has in many cases tolerated them. i want to assure you that europe has never condoned these practices which violate democracy and human rights. in fact, for the short time that i am here with you, what i see every day is our duty to protect them. the proceedings of this house as well as the investigation of the united states senate committee demonstrate the fundamental role that democratic control, democratic oversight plays in national security and law enforcement. the practices that emerged from the debate and that we have discussed here today show that the defence and promotion of fundamental rights require continuous efforts and vigilance. and, yes, i agree with you that we all share the responsibility, and the member states do too. i am sure that the president of the european council, who is here today, will convey parliament's concerns and concerns to the member states. i would like to remind you of something very important, because some of the aphorisms have been used: that the investigation by the united states senate committee is the result of democratic and parliamentary control. we welcome this as a mature response from a democratic society and we remind ourselves that democracy has the institutions, the power and the will to protect the individual and his rights. i would like to make a point here about something that i think is important that president obama said, who, as you know, banned torture when he took office: today's report can help us leave these techniques where they belong - in the past. where they belong: in the past. some of the members of the house have mentioned guantanamo. the commission's position was stated at the beginning and i repeat it. and our position is clear and consistent. yes, we are calling for the closure of guantanamo. we have consistently maintained this position not only with regard to the indefinite detention of terror suspects at guantanamo but also, i remind you, with regard to the death penalty, the imprisonment of minors and other important human rights issues. the european union and the united states of america also discussed cooperation on counter-terrorism. this cooperation is very important for european security and the protection of our peoples. at the level of the european union, we have concluded agreements with the united states of america on a series of initiatives which facilitate this cooperation and make it more effective and always in accordance with fundamental rights. the european union and its member states, as well as the united states of america, have a shared responsibility to ensure that their counter-terrorism cooperation fully respects fundamental rights and the rule of law and, where appropriate, international humanitarian law and refugee law. we will continue to raise and discuss these issues with the united states of america and to express, where necessary, our concerns and concerns and our proposals for situations which are contrary to the values and principles on which the european union is founded, the same values and principles on which the american democratic structure is founded. the special attention that the european parliament gives to these matters provides us with political support and democratic control to ensure that all concerns are addressed in a balanced and proper manner, which at the same time does not allow us to rest. the main conclusion of this debate today is that the european union and its democratic institutions are the guardians of fundamental human rights, human dignity and our democratic achievements.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this frank and open exchange of views. as i have said, it is important to ensure that the abuses mentioned in the us senate report - and which were discussed today - are never repeated and that human rights are fully respected in the fight against terrorism. i believe that the european parliament has an important role to play in the transatlantic debate on counter-terrorism and international law and human rights. it is important that you can speak to members of the united states congress to express your views on counterterrorism policy and we have already seen that the concerns expressed by allies can influence the policy of the united states of america. congress is now debating the important issue of surveillance and data protection and privacy. congress voted against a bill that would have reformed one of the many programs that have fundamentally affected americans. it will be important for the european parliament to express its views to the us congress, respecting the protection of the privacy of citizens of the european union. the european parliament could also play an important role vis-à-vis the parliaments of the countries of the middle east and north africa, in particular those involved in security reforms, so that effective monitoring mechanisms are established in these countries. as i said at the beginning, cooperation between the european union and the united states of america in the fight against terrorism is and remains essential. the european parliament has an important role to play in the relevant instruments: the terrorist finance tracking programme and the passenger name record between the european union and the united states and the safe harbor agreement. it is important to have effective tools that protect privacy and fundamental rights. both the european union and the united states of america face a serious terrorist threat today, in particular from isil and foreign fighters. we need sophisticated tools, also in relation to data, to address the threat in a way that respects human rights. i am sure that this debate on counterterrorism and human rights will continue across the atlantic in this parliament.
in writing. this report only demonstrates what has already been known - that the usa is an imperialist power which considers itself above any legal obligation, which disrespects international law and which, ironically, has been continuously occupying several sovereign countries in the name of defending human rights. the torture practices revealed in this report are brutal, but they were evidently not unknown to the us government, since it was president bush himself who approved the cia's detention and interrogation program with enhanced interrogation techniques. president obama, despite all the regrets he has now expressed, has not ended the illegal detention at guantanamo and has appointed as cia director one of the most ardent supporters of torture in the bush era, john brennan, which reveals not a cut, but a continuity, in the cia's action. it is the various european countries, including portugal, which have been complicit in these barbaric acts, by means of the abductions, detentions and illegal transport of these prisoners who have been tortured. what is required is justice and that, at the national level as well as at the united nations level, those responsible be condemned and the victims compensated.
madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the recent arrests in turkey, which i have already mentioned, raise questions about the true state of press freedom in this country which is applying to join the european union. we recall that the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, together with the freedom of the press mentioned above, are three of the fundamental pillars on which european democracies are based and, in particular, our rights, freedoms and guarantees as citizens. the fact that turkey is a candidate country for accession seems to me to be a clear sign that these principles are being respected. we therefore expect you, mr president, to follow closely the developments in these arrests, and in particular to be aware of the specific charges against each of the citizens concerned. we also demand that this candidate country to our union carry out judicial investigations in an independent, transparent and unbiased manner. i would like to conclude by stressing that, contrary to what president erdogan said last sunday, it seems to me legitimate for this parliament to make these demands.
mr president, we cannot expect dictatorships which maintain themselves in power at the cost of brutal repression of their own people to fulfil their obligations with regard to the rights of thousands of migrants and refugees who risk their lives by land and sea at the mercy of criminal smugglers. the governments of the criminals omar al-bashir in sudan, isaias in eritrea, who is arresting citizen dawit isaak and thousands of other eritreans, desalegn in ethiopia, who is arresting british citizen andargachew tsege and thousands of ethiopians, are manufacturers of refugees and migrants, they are the cause of thousands of their citizens fleeing misery and oppression. if the european union wants to stop migration in the horn of africa, it must help the peoples of this region to acquire the capacity to get rid of the dictatorships that oppress them, instead of paying these dictatorships to maintain themselves, with development aid money and in the framework of processes such as this one in khartoum which is doomed to ignominy and failure, as was the case with the migration agreement that italy and the european union sought to establish with gaddafi's libya. if we want to stop irregular migration and the smuggling of migrants and refugees, we need the european union's judicious commitment to end the war in syria, to make peace between israel and palestine, because gaza is where many of the migrants are coming from today, and also european strategic commitment to the security and governance of libya, which is now mired in chaos, which is the country through which the overwhelming majority of migrants and refugees fleeing poverty and oppression in the horn of africa pass.
the s&d group believes that democracy cannot be separated from the rule of law, and the rule of law implies a few fundamental things: respect for the principle of separation of powers, respect for individual autonomy and freedom of expression. and the first to ensure that the rule of law is respected is the one who is governing a country for the time being. the socialist group has therefore actively participated in a joint effort to get such an initiative approved. but, having said that, it is also important to say that the situation in venezuela is a situation of enormous complexity. we are absolutely against the prospect of sanctions. we consider that to be an absolute exaggeration. it has nothing to do with situations such as those just mentioned. what is happening in venezuela today has nothing to do with what happened in the soviet union. we also call for the opposition in venezuela to demonstrate peacefully, which has not always been the case, as has already been said here. so we will pass this motion. we have taken part in drawing it up because we have fundamental principles, namely the principle of respect for the rule of law, and it is clear that we are witnessing situations in venezuela which objectively conflict with this principle, but at the same time we do not want to omit to make a more general reference to the situation in venezuela. venezuela is, from our point of view, a democratic society, where there are elections, but it is a democratic society where today and at this moment there are serious problems that have to be counteracted. and that is why the european parliament is here playing its full part. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, i believe that the vote we are likely to adopt shortly will make clear progress in this direction: the recognition that there are situations which are reprehensible, the way the opposition is treated in venezuela. this is explicit even in the vote, and in accordance with resolutions of the united nations itself. now, what i also want to stress here, because it seems very important to me, is that we should not confuse things. in venezuela there have been democratic elections all these years. now, what we are arguing is that that is not enough to really assert a democracy. a democracy is not just about voting. democracy also implies respect for the rule of law, and when there is disrespect, in venezuela or elsewhere, we must make our position known.
mr president, acts of violence, destruction of public property, such as the burning of institutions, health centres and kindergartens - and here today is a woman whose baby daughter died in a fire at a nursery school because the order was to burn it - indiscriminate and indiscriminate murder of people are certainly serious crimes and in any of our countries those who commit, organise or encourage them are tried and punished and no one would dare to question that. but in venezuela, which many members have forgotten has been independent for over 200 years, according to you, the victims are not those, they are those who have caused these deaths. and the people who died and the people who were injured don't deserve any kind of mention from you. at the moment 34 people are being detained in venezuela, accused of serious crimes, and 14 officials, who are also accused of abuse of power. and what is required is respect for the judicial authorities of a sovereign state, who must be treated as equals, and not the shameful neo-colonial treatment to which the european parliament is entitled. today's adoption of this resolution means that the european parliament is being used by a violent extremist group which is far from representing the majority of the venezuelan opposition.
mr president, i want to express my solidarity and appreciation to the people of venezuela. to the people who freely and democratically expressed their support for the revolutionary process under way through the greatest succession of electoral acts, referendums acts these recognized as valid by international observers. jimmy carter himself, former president of the united states, described the democratic process in venezuela as exemplary, and i quote. so instead of lecturing venezuela on democracy, we should reflect on how the government has put the country's resources at the service of the majority, not just the few. how the government ended illiteracy, how it improved human development rates, how it reduced hunger and poverty, how it distributed housing to those living on the streets. i understand the blind rage of those who come here to express their hatred of alternative development projects, but history will do justice.
madam president, in recent sittings the services have refused to accept statements of vote on urgencies, on the grounds that the rules do not provide for this. it is not acceptable that in a vote like this, which also has several nominal votes, members cannot express their views by means of a statement of vote on the reasons for their vote. i think it is something that should make us all reflect on this... this rule is not justified and therefore it should be allowed to present statements of vote.
in writing. the main objective of the gsp is to facilitate access to the eu market for developing countries and territories by reducing customs duties on their goods. following the request submitted by the philippines, the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, known as gsp+, is intended to provide duty-free access to approximately 66% of the total tariff lines under the normal gsp. since this special scheme is conditional on the implementation of ratification by the countries of relevant international conventions on sustainable development, it does not appear to me that the philippines fulfils the conditions for accessing this special scheme. i am not only referring to the issue of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing by this state, but above all to the findings of the un report on trafficking in human beings, which points to the existence of human trafficking, especially of women and children, for the purpose of labour exploitation in the agricultural, fisheries, construction, manufacturing and service sectors. for these reasons, i reject the granting of gsp+ status to the philippines.
in writing. - we regret that it was not possible to reach a qualified majority to approve parliament's resolution objecting to the delegated act granting gsp+ to the philippines. firstly, because the status is granted before the commission has withdrawn its notification of the philippines as a third country considered as non-cooperating in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the commission notified the philippines that it may be considered a non-cooperating country in the fight against illegal fishing and initiated a procedure under which the philippines has a reasonable period to respond to the notification and justify the situation, which has not yet occurred. secondly, in view of the impact that the granting of this scheme to the philippines may have on the domestic canning industry. the portuguese market currently absorbs around 80% of the national production of canned tuna. given that the philippines, like thailand, is one of the world's leading producers of canned fish, especially canned tuna, any reduction of customs duties could result in large quantities of canned tuna from the philippines entering the domestic market, with inevitable negative effects on the domestic canning industry.
in writing. i have signed and voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the philippines should only have a special status in trade relations with the eu when it complies with all the required rules. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the fishing rights of certain stocks in the north sea.
in writing. the generalised system of preferences consists of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), without the levying of duties on imports from beneficiary countries in relation to 66% of all eu tariff lines. on 28 february 2014, the commission received a gsp+ application from the republic of the philippines, which it proposes to accept, pursuant to commission delegated regulation (c(2014) 05833 of 19 august 2014. given that, by decision of 10 june 2014, the commission notified the republic of the philippines of the risk of being identified as a non-cooperating third country in fighting illegal fishing (iuu), i believe that it is not appropriate to grant gsp+ status to the philippines at this stage. such a measure would introduce conditions of unfair competition for european fishermen, seriously damaging the interests of several member states, including portugal. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which opposes the said delegated regulation, postponing the granting of gsp+ status to the philippines to a later stage, when the conditions for withdrawal of the notification under the iuu procedure are met.
in writing. because i believe that the european union must be a credible international actor and promote consistency in its action, because i believe that our partner third countries must abide by the same rules to which we are subject, namely those relating to human rights, labour, environmental protection and (good) governance, because i believe that our industrial sector, namely the canning industry (but also the textile and clothing and bicycle industry), must be protected from unfair competition by third country companies, i was one of the promoters of this resolution (and previously of the resolution on the same subject voted in the inta committee) which sought to prevent the immediate granting of a very broad set of customs benefits (gsp+) to the philippines. unfortunately, despite a higher number of votes in favour in plenary (313 votes in favour, 285 against), a qualified majority of 50% + 1 vote was needed to approve this resolution (376 votes against), which did not happen. we will therefore continue to monitor developments in this matter, including the commission's assessment of the philippines over the next year and the progress of the iuu investigation process in the philippines.
in writing. the gsp system consists of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (sgsp+), without the levying of any duties on imports from beneficiary countries in relation to 66% of all eu tariff lines. the commission, in its resolution of 17 november 2011 on combating illegal fishing worldwide, explicitly states that iuu fishing threatens the sustainability of fish stocks and that the concept of the responsibility of the marketing state as a means of blocking access to markets for iuu fishery products needs to be further developed. we support this regulation, but we also note the contradiction in the philippine process.
in writing. the outstanding banking union element concerns a delegated act concerning ex ante contributions to resolution financing mechanisms, which sets out how much banks need to pay to the resolution fund. one of the problems with this specific act is that it does not ensure that the fixed contributions reflect the risk profile of the banks in an appropriate way. in other words, healthy banks with conservative business models and their own institutional guarantee systems, such as cooperative banks that will probably never need any resolution fund, will be called upon to pay the risk that those who play in the financial markets will have to bear. this opens the way for an unfair distribution of the funding costs of the resolution funds which particularly harms local low-risk banks. the non-objection to this delegated act is an undemocratic act and an evasion of scrutiny of the commission's activities by the european parliament, an unacceptable blank cheque. apart from our position in principle on the banking union, there are plenty of reasons for our vote against it.
in writing. article 103 of the drrb directive provides that member states shall ensure that at least annual contributions are levied on credit institutions and investment firms authorised in their territory. those contributions shall be adjusted in proportion to the risk profile of the institutions in accordance with the criteria specified by the commission in a delegated act to be adopted pursuant to paragraph 7 of that regulation. on the basis of that empowerment, the commission adopted on 21 october 2014 a delegated regulation supplementing the drrb directive with regard to ex ante contributions to resolution financing arrangements. considering that, in order for the implementation of the srbd to proceed by 1 january 2015, it is necessary for the national resolution authorities to start calculating and collecting contributions as soon as possible and that the agreement on the council implementing regulation specifying the uniform conditions of application of regulation (eu) no 806/2014 as regards ex ante contributions to the single resolution fund is consistent with the delegated regulation concerned, i voted in favour of this decision not to raise objections to the same.
in writing. the outstanding element on banking union concerns a delegated act on ex ante contributions to resolution financing mechanisms, which sets out how much banks need to pay to the resolution fund. one of the problems with this specific act is that it does not ensure that the fixed contributions reflect the risk profile of the banks in an appropriate way. in other words, healthy banks with conservative business models and their own institutional guarantee systems, such as cooperative banks that will probably never need any resolution fund, will be called upon to pay for the risks of those who play in the financial markets. this opens the way for an unfair distribution of the financing costs of the resolution funds, which particularly harms local banks with low risk. the early withdrawal of a non-objection to this delegated act is not only an undemocratic act and an evasion of scrutiny of the commission's activities by the european parliament, but it is also a blank cheque which we cannot accept.
in the light of the recent developments in the region, the commission will be able to make a number of recommendations to the council. moreover, for the first time in georgia's recent history, the transfer of power after these elections took place in a peaceful and democratic manner, which can serve as an example for the whole region. the georgian people themselves voted 69% in favour of the signing of this association agreement, which is a significant step forward in eu-georgia relations and deserves my approval. this is a commitment that underlines the political association and economic integration of georgia that the eu has been helping to achieve as evidenced by the financial assistance granted to this country in 2014.
in writing. there is a strong national consensus in georgia and among all parties in favour of integration with the west, including the eu and nato. this consensus should help to reduce the current polarisation of the political landscape and create the conditions for a constructive dialogue between the forces of the majority and the minority. this association agreement is a significant step forward in eu-georgia relations, embodying a commitment to political association and economic integration. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-georgia association agreement, as it provides important mutual benefits and represents a significant step forward in the deepening of relations between the two parties. in this context, the trade pillar of the agreement should be highlighted, which will lead to the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) between the eu and georgia, which will allow, on the one hand, to enhance georgia's access to the eu market, thereby creating opportunities for the country's economy to modernise and contributing to the improvement of the quality of life of its citizens, and, on the other hand, to facilitate eu trade and improve the conditions for investment in georgia.
in writing. the further rapprochement of georgia with the european union, embodied in the association agreement which we approved in this parliament today and which includes a deep and comprehensive free trade area, as well as representing one of the most ambitious free trade agreements the european union has ever negotiated with a third country, was signed in the wider framework of the eastern partnership, which included agreements with moldova and ukraine. this wider framework for the european union's external action means that parliament must be more involved and more closely involved in our relations with third countries. this non-legislative report, which was voted on at the same time as the consent procedure for the agreement, is part of this area of european parliament action, the so-called parliamentary diplomacy, and includes a number of recommendations to our eastern partner which i have seen and therefore voted in favour of.
in writing. we do not see ourselves in these free trade agreements which represent in our era a new form of colonialism in a commercial and economic version. we are negotiating trade agreements which are not based on free trade but rather on mutual cooperation and respect for the specific characteristics of all parties. the agreement is another chapter in the siege of russia, and seeks to break historic ties of cooperation which reflect not only geographical proximity but also cultural identities. only then can one understand the offensive purposes used to demonize russia. we voted against it.
in writing. there is a strong national consensus in georgia and among all parties in favour of integration with the west, including the eu and nato. this consensus should help to reduce the current polarisation of the political landscape and create the conditions for a constructive dialogue between the forces of the majority and the minority. this association agreement is a significant step forward in eu-georgia relations, embodying a commitment to political association and economic integration. i hope that the conclusion of this agreement will be beneficial to all and will contribute to the development of georgia and the consolidation of its democracy. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. in recent years, georgia has made significant progress in reforms and in strengthening relations with the eu. in this process, the conclusion of the eu-georgia association agreement and the establishment of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) in this context are of key importance, both for the mutual benefits they bring to the parties and as a sign of recognition of the efforts made by the georgian authorities to strengthen the stability and independence of the institutions and to consolidate the rule of law and the system for the protection of fundamental rights. the agreement now being concluded, it is important to ensure its implementation and to follow up reform efforts, particularly as regards the creation of the conditions for the construction of a free society based on democratic values and the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary, which must under no circumstances be used as an instrument of political revenge. the eu also calls on russia to fully respect georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, to withdraw recognition of the secession of abkhazia and the tskhinvali region/south ossetia, to end the occupation of these territories and to commit to non-use of force against georgia.
in writing. the association agreement between the european union and georgia, negotiated under the eastern partnership between 2012 and 2013, provides for the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) of mutual benefit. by committing to binding commitments to adopt common legislation, standards and values, georgia will offer its citizens a more stable, predictable and scrutinized legal framework and improve its access to the world's largest trading bloc. the eu will benefit from greater trade flows and better investment conditions in the country, promoting the modernisation of the economy and providing a more favourable and predictable political environment. the cfta is expected to increase eu-georgia trade by 12% for georgia's exports to the eu and by around 7.5% for eu imports, improving the current account situation of georgia. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. the association agreement (aa) between the european union (eu) and georgia, negotiated under the eastern partnership between 2012 and 2013, is modelled on the eu-ukraine association agreement, which is the most ambitious free trade agreement ever negotiated by the eu with a third country, excluding european economic area countries, with the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with the eu. we do not see ourselves in these free trade agreements which represent in our era a new form of colonialism in a commercial and economic version. we are negotiating trade agreements which are not based on free trade but rather on mutual cooperation and respect for the specific characteristics of all parties. the agreement is another chapter in the siege of russia, and seeks to break historic ties of cooperation which reflect not only geographical proximity but also cultural identities. only then can one understand the offensive purposes used to demonize russia. we voted against it.
