mr president, i will not enter into this epp-epp match between mr brok and mr basescu because until recently mr brok was defending mr basescu. i shall refer instead to statements made by his majesty, known to the european press, in which he proposed fingerprinting romanian and bulgarian citizens in order not to abuse the social services in germany. beyond the blatant conflict between... (speaker was interrupted)
(rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism) − madam president, commissioner, cars and vans together account for more than half of the total greenhouse gas emissions in the european transport sector. the amendment of regulation (ec) no 510/2011 on the reduction of co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles has a significant impact on both light commercial vehicle users, the automotive and related industries and the environment and aims to reduce fuel consumption and related costs for owners of light commercial vehicles. the 2020 target for vans of 147 g co2/km implies annual fuel consumption reductions of 17% compared to the 2017 target of 175 g. this will stimulate research and innovation in the automotive sector, promoting green growth and green jobs and improving the international competitiveness of the european union industry, while also reducing the union's dependence on oil imports. we welcome the commission's decision to adopt a statement to respond to parliament's request for co2 emissions targets for 2025. we also welcome the shift of the post-2020 decision from 2014 to 2015, which will allow for better documentation with a fairly determined impact. the commission should therefore, by 2015, review and report to the european parliament and the council on its findings on an assessment of the reduction rate needed in line with the union's long-term climate objectives and the implications for the development of cost-effective co2 reduction technologies for light commercial vehicles. i conclude, madam president, by saying that the report should include, where appropriate, proposals to amend this regulation. when drawing up such proposals, the commission should ensure that they are as neutral as possible from a competitive point of view and that they are socially fair and sustainable.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i would like to ask mr tatarella: did you know that from the moment a new type of eco-friendly engine is designed, it takes about seven years before it is introduced on the market? that is why i believe that a vision beyond 2020 is needed and this is also provided for in the report on eco-efficient transport by stoa where, together, we are members. so i want you to look at the post-2020 outlook from this perspective, which is that any new green engine doesn't come to market until seven years after it's designed.
madam president, in the european union we agreed to have a european policy to combat climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. that is why tomorrow i will be supporting the regulation we are debating today, which has reached an acceptable compromise on the limits for these greenhouse gases emitted by light commercial vehicles. i would like to point out, however, that the additional effort and costs for the european car industry must be matched by the efforts of third countries, whether large or small car producers. i therefore believe that both the council and the european commission and the european parliament must act to achieve this reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles globally. if we fail to achieve this global target, then we will not only see an increase in global greenhouse gas emissions, but we will also negatively affect the competitiveness of the european automotive industry, which supports millions of jobs in europe.
mr president, i welcome your return and wish you well, commissioner, in the transition to a low-carbon economy, carbon capture and storage technology could be one of the main ways of reconciling the growing demand for fossil fuels with the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i regret that the majority of the eur 1 billion made available to pilot carbon capture and storage projects in 2009 through the european economic recovery programme has remained unspent and, despite considerable effort and substantial support from the european union, union demonstration projects for commercial-scale carbon capture and storage are experiencing delays. i believe that any policy and strategy on carbon capture and storage should only be based on solid evidence of the positive impact of this technology on the environment, on the stability of union industry, on jobs in the union, and on affordable energy prices for both the public and industry. we call on the commission and the member states to take far-reaching action to stimulate international cooperation and promote the use of climate change mitigation technologies to reorient the burgeoning economies towards a low-carbon development alternative. however, we would point out that carbon capture and storage technologies pose significant environmental risks to both people and agriculture.
my fellow members of parliament! in 2014, every european citizen will have the opportunity to decide whether to vote in the european parliament elections for those who want to destroy the european architecture or for those who believe in a new europe. as a politician of the rmdsz, representative of the romanian hungarian community, i believe in european values. i firmly reject any attempt to classify citizens in europe by country of origin, as some politicians are doing in the context of the full opening of the european labour market. i am equally strongly opposed to the decision announced today by the governing coalition in romania to hold a referendum on constitutional amendments at the same time as the european parliament elections. this decision clearly shows how much the left-liberal government coalition in romania is not aware of the values of the european union in the 21st century.
mr president, i am firmly convinced that we are nowhere near in a situation where freedom of thought or expression could be restricted in any way. the truth and correctness of statements cannot be limited, as any law is continually in the process of improvement. it is imperative that any provisions which would lead to serious attacks on freedom of the press and freedom of expression in general should not be found in legislation. prime minister victor ponta publicly announced that freedom of expression and freedom of the press will not be restricted in any way and that european rules on this subject will be respected in romania. the romanian press, always active and long a barometer of democratic change, as well as any other entity that wants to be a vehicle of opinion in our country, has no reason to worry, as long as journalistic ethics are respected and any statement, no matter how offensive, can be proven with concrete and legal evidence.
mr president, 2014 is a decisive year for the fate of the european project, following the economic crisis and austerity measures that have affected living standards and exacerbated social disparities and tensions. one in four europeans is now a victim of poverty or at risk of poverty. in the european union, over ten million people have lost their jobs in the last six years and there are member states where one in two young people is unemployed. from solutions to demographic and economic problems, labour migration has come to be stigmatised and exploited politically by nationalist-euro-phobic forces. we need a new european socioeconomic model that eliminates the risk of long-term stagnation, ensures a decent life and guarantees respect for fundamental rights. only a social europe can counter the crisis, extremism, unemployment and discrimination of all kinds. xenophobic-populist discourse must disappear from the european union.
mr president, as of 1 january, the restrictions on the labour market have been lifted for romanian and bulgarian citizens. the right to be employed on the same terms as any other european is enshrined in the treaty, and the freedom to move and work anywhere in the union is one of the cornerstones of european integration and the right most cherished by citizens. 18.5 million europeans have decided to live in another member state. studies have shown that worker mobility has many benefits for host countries, including filling skills gaps or addressing the challenges of an ageing population. these migrants are social security contributors. however, certain politicians prefer, for electoral reasons, to spread misconceptions about romanian and bulgarian migrants, citing fingerprinting or the elimination of social benefits. i believe that these messages are extremely dangerous because they incite xenophobia and endanger the values of the european union.
mr president, promoting the european union's competitiveness at international level is a complex process and regional cooperation is an important element, which can and must be an asset, thanks to the transfer of knowledge and technology. these transfers benefit both the european union as a whole and the regions concerned, and regional specialisation strategies, as well as the one aimed at creating a network of centres of excellence, can contribute to a better participation of universities, research and innovation centres, businesses and civil society, as well as to attracting private sector investment. it should be borne in mind that border regions often face the same challenges on both sides of the border due to common territorial characteristics and as such member states, local and regional authorities should work more closely together to develop cross-border smart specialisation strategies.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr winkler, who has produced an extremely important report. innovation is more than important at the european union level. we want smart economic growth, so we need to have the ability to implement strategies on research, development and innovation. however, i regret that what the romanian government submitted to the european commission was rejected, namely the partnership agreement, which did not include the intelligence component, namely research, development and innovation, and this report was also described as not correlated with the objectives of the european union. i therefore ask the european commission to be vigilant in this regard and to ask the romanian government, in concrete terms, to ensure that these objectives are reflected in the partnership agreement between the romanian government and the european commission. i say, at the same time, that we have a big problem in terms of labour, namely researchers from the european union are starting to leave for other destinations, not only to america and japan, but they have started to leave for china as well.
mr president, commissioner, for the first time for the 2014-2020 programming period, member states are obliged to develop a research and innovation strategy to support regional innovation capacity and to coordinate research, development and innovation funds more effectively. i think it is important that the directorates-general within the commission step up their training and support activities for the regions in the development and implementation of the research and innovation strategy. we call on public and private stakeholders to use the many funding opportunities for the period 2014-2020, including by supporting the establishment of regional innovation incubators and by developing links and synergies between universities, other research and higher education institutions, innovative and creative entrepreneurs and businesses, as well as investors and business support service providers, such as the creative and cultural industries.
mr. president, we are talking about a very important plan of action. recently, we have seen that the disparities between member states, especially in terms of health infrastructure, but also in terms of access to innovative medicine and treatment, are extremely high and are unfortunately continuing to increase. therefore, i believe that this action plan 2012-2020 on health at european level should also take into account that some countries need not only money to implement new projects, but also need knowledge, knowledge transfer from a modern, developed state to the newly acceded states in particular. we need an e-learning system for doctors and nurses, and at the same time, in countries like romania, we need money invested in hospital infrastructure, so that european citizens who are not first- and second-class citizens can enjoy the same treatment and the same conditions in terms of their health.
information and communication technologies applied to health and healthcare systems can increase their efficiency, improve quality of life and unlock the potential for innovation in healthcare markets. the development of ehealth systems requires the promotion of european standards, so that the systems are interoperable, with the aim of guaranteeing their effectiveness at european level. it is important to take measures to bridge the digital divide between the different regions of the member states and to ensure that access to and use of ehealth services does not create social or territorial inequalities so that all union citizens benefit from these services. intelligent transport systems are particularly important for ehealth. we call on the commission and the member states to pay particular attention to the digital skills and technical training of women and, in particular, older women, to ensure that ehealth tools, in particular telemedicine, are truly effective and accessible to the whole population.
in writing. i would like to welcome the whole report, which addresses important concerns in the daily lives of european citizens, but also a challenge to the entire agricultural and food industry sector. i particularly appreciate the references to the need to establish a labelling system applicable to 'local farming and direct sales'. such a system would allow better consumer information, remove products falsely promoted as local or traditional from the market, and create a lasting link between producer and consumer. lastly, as the report states, such a system would help to promote the markets concerned and help farmers to increase the value of their products. i believe that to end the current term of office without leaving such a system behind is a failure for both the commission and parliament. perhaps, however, before the european elections, we will at least be able to set out the guidelines of a legislative proposal on this subject.
in europe, traditional social security schemes are designed to protect employees, but they have difficulty applying to self-employed people, i.e. freelancers, small and medium-sized enterprises. it is important to guarantee access to basic social benefits for the most vulnerable groups, including the self-employed, the unemployed, the disabled and pensioners. it is well known that universal social protection is the basis of the european social model. there is a resolution adopted by parliament in 2010 that would guarantee this fundamental right to all workers, regardless of their status, yet it is being abused in several member states. they systematically avoid paying social security contributions and taxes, undermine labour rights and put self-employed people in a difficult position, who are increasingly in the labour market as a result of the economic crisis and increasingly among the economically vulnerable. promote social inclusion and equity.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that lithuania had a difficult task ahead of it when it took over the council presidency in july 2013. fortunately, the many hurdles were transformed into opportunities, and that is why i wish to congratulate the lithuanian presidency on the results of its mandate. the potential for growth in the eu was unlocked by the positive outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations on the mff, especially through the establishment of a new funding mechanism for long-term competitiveness. the connecting europe facility is one of the programmes that are aimed at attracting private investment for our energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructures. upgraded networks will connect european citizens to the best prices and services, and large-scale infrastructure projects will be better financed through maximised use of financial instruments. as rapporteur on this dossier, i very much appreciate the good cooperation we had in concluding the negotiations. i also wish to salute the agreement with parliament on notification of investment projects in energy infrastructure, which will help provide an overview of infrastructure development, thus helping to build up and fine-tune the eu’s energy policy. finally, i would like to thank the lithuanian presidency on behalf of the people of moldova, who have come one step closer to their european aspirations by initialising the association agreement, as well as through the completion of the eu-moldova visa liberalisation act.
mr president, the lithuanian presidency has covered a difficult and intense period, characterised by important negotiations on policies vital to the functioning and development of the union. the union's economic recovery is the zero priority at the moment, which is why i congratulate parliament and the lithuanian presidency once again for having managed to reach an agreement on the 2014-2020 budget. policies that will ensure long-term sustainable growth and stability have been concluded and consolidated. firstly, the agreements on the legal bases for the cohesion and agricultural policies. measures to combat unemployment, especially among young people, are also welcome. the adoption of common provisions on the european structural and investment funds will ensure that the resources allocated are channelled in an optimal direction, thus generating regional prosperity. recent progress in establishing the banking union, in generating responsible economic policies by member states, and in legislation protecting financial interests and guaranteeing the rights of union citizens in the financial sector should be noted and actively supported. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, including the establishment of a common foreign and security policy. this agreement is a recognition of the reform efforts of the chisinau government in recent years, but also a proof that the european union is honouring its commitments to its eastern partners. i regret that the discussions on the single european sky regulation have not been opened. this regulation is very important, both for the european union and its citizens, in terms of the improvements it brings to air traffic and passenger comfort in this mode of transport. i thank the lithuanian presidency for its excellent cooperation in the negotiations on the union's internal security fund.
mr president, consumers are the cornerstone of consumer-driven economic development in the european union. lately, we've been finding that they're not protected anymore. in particular in crossborder regions, there appears to be a growing lack of confidence in the consumption of products in a single market. we in the european union are trying to create a single market based on democratic criteria, common principles, but national governments don't seem to have understood this in the same way. i therefore believe that the european union institutions, led by the european commission, need to be more involved in the development of a common market based on common principles and, moreover, common laws, such as public procurement which, again, is developed and implemented differently in each member state. i believe that this can be done by shifting to more sustainable consumption patterns and, not least, by taking common decisions in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of ms lara comi, in the light of the report of the committee on legal affairs. ms lara comi, member of the european parliament, sought to have her immunity upheld in connection with proceedings brought by the public prosecutor's office of the republic of ferrara following an action for the offence of aggravated defamation under the second and third paragraphs of article 595 of the italian penal code and article 30 of law no 223 of 6 august 1990 for words which she allegedly uttered during a political debate on television. article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, to which ms comi expressly refers in her defence, provides that members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of investigation, detention or prosecution on account of opinions or votes expressed in the course of their duties. the court of justice has recognised that an express statement by a member who is not a member of the european parliament may constitute an express opinion in the exercise of his functions within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol, taking into account not the place where the statement was made but its nature and content.
in writing. − i welcome and agree with the achievements of the commission and the european union legislator in their efforts to improve the framework conditions for synergies between the european structural and investment funds (esif) and other eu programmes such as cosme and in particular horizon 2020, which operate for example through harmonised standard rates or through blended finance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on smart specialisation: creating a network of centres of excellence for an effective cohesion policy. i welcome the importance that cohesion policy 2014-2020 attaches to research, development and innovation. i encourage the regions of the eastern union, in particular those in romania, to apply to all available funding opportunities in research through horizon 2020. synergies between horizon 2020 and the possibilities for innovation funding from the structural funds can significantly reduce the gap between the eastern and western regions of the european union.
in writing. − unlocking the potential of regional knowledge and skills has a positive impact on regional economies, provides significant added value and opens up new markets for regions. smart specialisation should aim at setting priority development objectives by assessing the competitive advantages of regions and exploiting their strengths. the smart specialisation strategy involves a joint action plan bringing together local authorities, regional businesses, educational institutions and civil society. horizontal cooperation between these actors will contribute to identifying priority development sectors, defining the implementation plan of the set objectives, and monitoring and evaluating investments. it is important that regions make good use of the funding and cooperation opportunities offered by community funds. in this respect, horizon 2020 provides financial levers that contribute to reducing innovation gaps at regional level. the transfer of knowledge between regions contributes to the enhancement and diversification of economic development capacities. cooperation and exchange of experience between innovation clusters is supported by the framework programmes for research and technological development (fp7). i am convinced that supporting smart specialisation strategies across borders and the creation of cross-border clusters will generate new development opportunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the theme 'smart specialisation: creating a network of centres of excellence for an effective cohesion policy'. we call on all regions and member states, if they have not already done so, to accelerate the development of their smart specialisation strategies, so as not to risk delayed receipt of eu funding for relevant operational programmes due to the lack of such a strategy. 'smart specialisation strategy' means national or regional innovation strategies that set priorities with the aim of creating a competitive advantage by developing and matching research and innovation strengths with business needs, in order to address emerging opportunities and market developments in a coherent way, avoiding overlap and fragmentation of efforts, and which may take the form of or are embedded in a national or regional strategic research and innovation (r&i) policy framework. we encourage regions to invest in cross-sectoral and cross-technological activities that can generate cross-links across the entire regional economy, so that the widest range of businesses can contribute to and benefit from more jobs and stronger growth.
in writing. − the report on 'smart specialisation: creating a network of centres of excellence for an effective cohesion policy' is unequivocal in its call for a sustainable improvement in the eu's innovation potential, which is essential in a period of economic recession and inevitable budgetary constraints, as well as increasingly fierce global competition. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the regions, in particular the regions of the southern and central regions, and to extend the scope of the regulation to include the regions of the northern and central regions. i voted for this report also because it emphasises the rigorous and systematic selection of objectives to be financed with european money, all the more so as past experience has shown that, in the absence of a comprehensive overall strategy, eu investments in general, and therefore also those in research and development and innovation, have not always produced the desired effects.
in writing. − i voted for the european parliament's decision to amend rule 81 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament concerning the approval procedure, having regard to rules 211 and 212 of the ep's rules of procedure and the report of the committee on constitutional affairs. i supported the suspension clause on the approval of international agreements because i think it is very important: to avoid the rejection of an international agreement; to be able to ask the third country to make certain amendments or to fulfil certain obligations that parliament considers necessary for approval; to be able to recommend to the commission to renegotiate any part of an international agreement that would be inappropriate from the point of view of parliament. where parliament's consent is required for an envisaged international agreement, parliament may decide, on a recommendation from the committee responsible, to suspend the consent procedure for a maximum of one year, in accordance with the approved amendments to the ep's rules of procedure.
in writing. − the shift to ultra-low-carbon cars is indispensable if europe is to achieve its long-term climate goals. road transport is currently the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, generating about one fifth of the eu's total co2 emissions. moreover, road transport is one of the few sectors where emissions have increased rapidly. that is why i voted today in the european parliament plenary to set new performance standards for new light commercial vehicles and an ambitious co2 emissions reduction target for new light commercial vehicles. i believe that this objective will stimulate research and innovation in the automotive sector, promote green growth and green jobs, and improve the international competitiveness of the eu industry, while also reducing the eu's dependence on oil imports. the text adopted also addresses the shortcomings of the current environmental performance test protocol and provides for its replacement as soon as possible by the new un-defined international light vehicle test procedure (wltp).
in writing. − i believe that these additional credits are an important tool for manufacturers, for generating technological change and as an incentive for investment in innovative low-emission technologies. they are also an effective instrument for achieving the objectives of regulation (eu) no 510/2011 without imposing additional burdens on union taxpayers. many types of alternative propulsion systems can be promoted by using additional credits. therefore, i believe that the additional credit scheme should be extended beyond 2018 in accordance with regulation (eu) no 510/2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 510/2011 to define the modalities for achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. given the link between co2 emissions and fuel consumption, defining ways to reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles could also help to reduce fuel consumption and related costs for owners of such vehicles in a cost-effective manner. the objective of this regulation, namely to define ways of achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles, can be better achieved at union level. according to the technical analysis carried out in the impact assessment, the technologies necessary to achieve the 147 g co2/km target are available and the necessary reductions can be achieved at a lower cost than estimated in the previous technical analysis. the procedure for granting a derogation for small producers should be simplified to allow for greater flexibility as to when such producers should submit an application for a derogation and when the commission is to grant it.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the 2014-2020 consumer protection programme takes account of current social, economic and technical challenges. however, it is important that the programme is appropriately budgeted so as to ensure a high degree of real protection for all consumers. it is also vital that the european union removes any barriers to the proper functioning of the internal market and enhances citizens' confidence in the single market. on the other hand, understanding the current conditions due to budgetary constraints, i support the adoption of the consumer protection programme for the period 2014-2020 in this form, stating that a decrease in the budget for this programme is unacceptable and the efficient use of the funds made available is essential.
in writing. − i believe that the consumer programme 2014-2020 should ensure a high level of consumer protection and fully support the growth and competitiveness ambitions of the europe 2020 strategy, integrating its specific concerns on the digital agenda for europe, to ensure that digitalisation actually leads to higher consumer welfare, sustainable growth, through the shift to more sustainable consumption patterns, social inclusion, by taking into account the specific situation of vulnerable consumers and the needs of the ageing population, and smart regulation, by monitoring the consumer market to develop smart and timely regulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation establishing a financing framework for union actions in the field of consumer policy for the period 2014-2020. the purpose of this regulation is to finance measures to ensure that a high level of consumer protection is maintained within the european union and to enable consumers to better assert their rights. with 500 million consumers, whose expenditure represents 56% of its gdp, the european union has every interest in strengthening its consumer protection policy. strengthening the rights, protection and capacity of european consumers is one way of stimulating innovation and growth by being demanding on prices, quality and service. companies that meet these expectations will be best placed to withstand the pressures of the global market. this regulation should enable the union to respond to the new challenges posed by consumer policy for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − the objectives set out in this report, including those of encouraging the modernisation of the rapex system, focusing the exchange of agents on risk areas, and achieving a more stable structure than the current informal coordination system (prosafe), should be welcomed and are geared towards increasing simplification. in the field of consumer protection, further steps will have to be taken to provide consumers with information and assistance in exercising their rights. in this sense, i believe that the measure put to the vote today in the house is effectively moving in the right direction.
in writing. − consumers in the european union are the engine of growth in the union, so it is important to ensure a high level of protection for them against risks and threats that they cannot prevent as individuals. the internal market has the potential to become the largest retail market in the world, but currently it remains highly fragmented along national borders, forming several mini-markets. consumers have a lack of confidence in cross-border purchases. markets that respond more effectively to consumer demands will perform better in terms of competitiveness and innovation. i support the consumer protection programme for 2014-2020 as i believe it is vital to remove direct and indirect obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market and to increase citizens' trust in this system, especially in the case of cross-border purchases. the programme would also support the growth and competitiveness ambitions of the europe 2020 strategy by ensuring a higher level of consumer welfare, by shifting to more sustainable consumption patterns and by taking into account the specific situation of vulnerable consumers and the needs of the ageing population.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on a consumer protection programme for 2014-2020. the regulation establishes a multiannual programme on consumer protection for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the general objective of the programme is to ensure a high level of consumer protection, to empower consumers and to enable them to be asserted as a central element of the internal market within an overall strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the programme will achieve this by contributing to the protection of the health, safety and legal and economic interests of consumers, as well as to promoting their right to information, education and organisation to defend their interests, by supporting the integration of consumer interests into other policy areas. the programme shall complement, support and monitor the policies of the member states. the financial envelope for the implementation of the programme for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020 shall be eur 188 829 000 in current prices. in accordance with regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012, the union's financial contribution may take the form of grants, procurement or any other intervention necessary to achieve the objectives of the adopted regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat, meslin and husks, breezes and other residues. in order to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of regulation (ec) no 774/94, the power to adopt legislative acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty should be delegated to the commission in respect of the adoption of amendments to that regulation, where the volumes and other conditions of the quota system are adjusted. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level. when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, the commission should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council. the commission should provide full information and documentation on its meetings with national experts, in the context of its work for the preparation and implementation of delegated acts. in this regard, the commission should ensure that the european parliament is appropriately involved in order to create the best possible conditions for the scrutiny of delegated acts exercised by the european parliament in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and (ec) no 1506/98 in the field of imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey as regards the delegated and implementing powers to be conferred on the commission. the objective of this regulation is to align three regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the regime of delegated and implementing acts established after lisbon (articles 290 and 291 tfeu). it is proposed to delegate to the commission the power to adopt delegated acts in order to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of regulation (ec) no 2008/97, in particular as regards the amounts of the duty reduction or in the event of a new agreement being concluded with turkey. the commission is also empowered to adopt the necessary measures to implement the detailed rules for the application of the special arrangements for imports of olive oil and other agricultural products originating in turkey.
in writing. − aromatised wine products represent a significant part of the european wine sector and form a very important market in terms of quality and quantity, both at home and abroad. the union accounts for 90% of the world production of aromatised wine products (around three million hectolitres per year), with traditional production rooted in many member states. today's vote ensures that the policy of reforming the wine sector is continued, in the context of simplifying the common agricultural policy, by making the union legislation on aromatised wine products more applicable and clearer and by establishing a well-defined quality policy for these products. the designation, presentation and labelling of aromatised wine products will be updated so that consumers are correctly informed and the definitions used are adapted to technical progress.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products. aromatised wine products are important for consumers and producers and for the agri-food sector in the european union in general. they represent a significant part of the european wine sector and form a very important market in terms of quality and quantity, both at home and abroad. given the importance and complexity of the aromatised wine sector, it is necessary to lay down specific rules on the description and presentation of aromatised wine products. in order to facilitate consumer understanding, it should be possible to supplement the sales descriptions established by this regulation with the current name of the product. the definitions of aromatised wine products should continue to respect traditional quality practices but should be updated and improved in the light of technological progress. this regulation should establish a procedure for the registration, compliance, amendment and possible cancellation of geographical indications of third countries and of the union. the authorities of the member states should be responsible for ensuring compliance with this regulation and the commission should have mechanisms in place to enable it to monitor and verify compliance with this regulation.
in writing. − i believe that member states and the commission need to take far-reaching measures to stimulate international cooperation and promote the use of climate change mitigation technologies to steer expanding economies towards lower-carbon development alternatives, including, for example, cscs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2013 implementation report: the development and use of carbon capture and storage technology in europe. carbon capture and storage (ccs) is a promising technology that could be the only means to significantly reduce co2 emissions from industrial sources and has the potential to significantly reduce co2 emissions from fossil fuel power plants. this requires investment and industrial-scale demonstration to promote innovation, reduce costs and promote environmental safety. in view of the substantial investments required, financial instruments are needed to promote the technical and safe research and application of cscs. i believe that a series of flagship projects covering the entire scc chain should be developed in order to identify the best and most economically advantageous solutions. we invite the commission to encourage the implementation of csr not only in relation to coal and gas-based energy production but also in a number of industrial sectors such as the chemical plant sector, metallurgy, iron and steel, cement and refining.
in writing. − european health systems are currently facing major challenges, due to the increasing demand for health services as a result of an ageing population, the precarious health of european citizens, patient mobility and increasingly restricted budgets for healthcare. to address these challenges, i support the adoption of the ehealth report. the ehealth action plan is an innovative way to improve the quality and efficiency of healthcare, while ensuring high-quality and reliable healthcare, improved access to health services for people living in remote and sparsely populated areas, better working conditions and reduced waiting times.
in writing. − equal access to quality healthcare is an internationally recognised fundamental right, particularly in the eu. however, the exercise of this right is still constrained in some member states by financial, regional and availability of medical staffing problems. in addition, the economic crisis is leading to cuts in national healthcare budgets, which implies the need to find solutions to increase the effectiveness of health systems and ensure their sustainability. that is why, in voting for the ehealth action plan 2012-2020, i voted for improving access to health services, reducing health costs and ensuring greater equality between european citizens. i believe that ehealth has a very high potential and can bring benefits to healthcare professionals, patients, informal carers and even public authorities. the commission must therefore continue to work towards the widespread adoption of ehealth across the eu. as women are involved at all levels of the health sector, the commission and the member states should consider equal access for women to ehealth, not only as patients but also as carers, ict specialists and decision-makers.
in writing. − i believe that ehealth services for family (informal) carers, who are still predominantly women, need to be encouraged and promoted at european level in order to support them in their often difficult care tasks and to enable them to provide the best possible care.
in writing. − in order to ensure safe and effective healthcare and to provide quality services to patients, i consider it important that certain measures in the field of ehealth are adopted today. these measures are aimed at reducing waiting times for patients, improving working conditions for healthcare workers and facilitating access to healthcare services, especially for people living in remote areas. our main objective is the interest of the patient and the improvement of the quality of care for citizens. to this end, i believe that closer cooperation between healthcare providers and a common definition of certification and authentication schemes should be achieved.
in writing. − i support the eu action plan on ehealth. regional disparities between member states are a continuing impediment to improving the quality of life of eu citizens, as shown by a 2013 european commission study that ranks bucharest, the capital of romania, 27th out of 28 in citizens' perceptions of satisfaction with the health system. for example, in strasbourg, 93% of citizens are very satisfied or satisfied with the health system, while in bucharest the percentage does not exceed 29%. even though the organisation of health systems is a matter for the authorities of the member states, the european institutions must take measures and encourage concrete actions that could save the lives of europeans. such actions may include improving ict (information and communication technology) infrastructure and, in particular, stimulating investment in health infrastructure. it is our duty to raise the standards in the health system for all member countries. i therefore ask the european commission to ask the romanian authorities to strictly adapt to the requirements of the action plan, without which the objectives of the union and the interests of the citizens cannot be achieved!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the ehealth action plan 2012-2020: innovative healthcare for the 21st century. equal access to quality universal healthcare is an internationally recognised fundamental right, particularly in the eu. information and communication technologies (icts) have reached a level of development sufficient to be applied in ehealth systems, and this is demonstrated by positive experiences in different eu member states and around the world, with numerous benefits at national level. i believe it is important to give importance to databases (such as cloud computing), their location and protection and i believe that the security of these databases should be a priority. the legal and data protection issues of ehealth systems should also be a priority and, given the highly sensitive nature of patient health data, a balance between data protection and access to data is necessary and liability issues need to be clear. ehealth applications should be accessible to all. accessibility should be a mandatory condition for the creation of any software product or application in order to prevent inequalities in access.
in writing. − in recent years, there has been increased attention to the problem of fraud in the food sector, following cases of fraudulent labelling of several food products. i believe that the recent cases of fraud in the food sector have damaged consumer confidence in the food chain, also having a negative impact on the agri-food sector, a key sector of the eu economy. i believe that a harmonised definition of food fraud at eu level is needed, that we need to create a european network to combat food fraud and the use of dna testing more widely to eliminate any kind of fraud.
in writing. − recent cases of food fraud have had a negative impact on the agri-food sector and have deeply damaged consumer confidence. the eu regulatory framework for food safety and the food chain has been designed to provide a high level of food safety for consumers in the european union but, however, current legislation is still fragile and not always reliable, and improvements to the situation on the ground are therefore needed. that is why i hope that, with today's vote in the european parliament's plenary, the prevention and fight against fraud in the food sector will become an integral part of eu policy. this will help to deter and control fraud in the food chain more effectively and restore the confidence of european consumers. i believe that member states and european regions should make available to control authorities sufficient human, financial and technical resources to carry out effective controls and inspections, in order to avoid an additional administrative burden for smes. furthermore, in the absence of a european legislative framework on meat from cloned animals, the commission should present as soon as possible a legislative proposal on animal cloning and develop a method for the tracing and identification of meat from cloned animals.
in writing. − as transparency is a key component of the approach adopted by the commission and the member states to food safety controls, i believe that member states and european regions must make available sufficient human, financial and technical resources to the control authorities.
in writing. − in order to protect the health of citizens and guarantee the quality of the products that reach consumers' tables, it was decided to step up european action to combat food fraud. it was called for a common definition of food fraud and for increased inspections of products, as well as for strengthening anti-fraud programmes and introducing more severe sanctions, especially in the case of fraud that puts the health of citizens at risk. the commission has also proposed legislation to make it compulsory to label meat and fish with an indication of the country of origin and to require food business operators to report fraudulent behaviour, in order to ensure greater protection for consumers and producers.
in writing. - i welcome the initiative of this report. cases of fraud in the food sector are perhaps among the most difficult to report and penalise, affecting a very large number of people. there are a number of challenges for which the european institutions must find solutions. for example, long and complex supply chains, which facilitate fraudulent cases and the closure of businesses that are then opened in other member states without the member state being notified, due to the lack of information exchange, are just some of the challenges. the commission's food and veterinary office does not have the necessary powers to deal with all irregularities in the food sector. a new team specialised in combating fraud in the food sector should therefore be set up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and appreciate that the text adopted today sends a strong signal to those who - in one form or another - are involved or tempted to take advantage of legislative loopholes to engage in such fraud. the report also serves as a reminder to the commission to take the points raised and the proposals made into account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the food crisis, fraud in the food chain and its control. i voted for paragraph 41, which calls on the commission to present its report on mandatory origin labelling for meat used as an ingredient and to follow up legislative proposals making the indication of the origin of meat mandatory for processed food products, while taking into account the impact assessments it carries out and avoiding excessive costs and administrative burdens. we call for better labelling of processed products containing fish, in particular as regards the origin of the fish and the fishing techniques used. we invite the commission to present legislative proposals on quality schemes for agricultural and food products, concerning a labelling system applicable to 'local farming and direct sales', in order to help promote the markets concerned and help farmers to increase the value of their products. we invite the commission and the member states to continue to encourage national and european research and development programmes, to develop and implement technologies and methods used to detect food fraud, such as sensor technology, data analysis and product fingerprinting, and to facilitate the market availability of short-term tests.
in writing. − increasing the efficiency of workplace inspections is one element in maintaining a high level of competitiveness of european economic actors. in the current context, still dominated by the effects of the financial and economic crisis, ensuring a high level of competitiveness for european enterprises by reducing the level of undeclared work, which represents 18,8% of the union's gdp and even 30% of the gdp of some member states, is of paramount importance. at the same time, increasing the effectiveness of these inspections should also ensure a high level of safety at the workplace. reducing the number of victims of accidents at work can be achieved by establishing a more effective system of monitoring compliance with safety rules.
in writing. − the economic crisis should not be an obstacle but an incentive to improve and strengthen workplace inspections to ensure the protection of workers. labour inspectors have a key role to play in enforcing workers' rights, preventing abuses by employers and promoting economic and social development. it is necessary to establish a european agency to deal with all cross-border issues related to inspections at the workplace. these could include controls on cross-border service providers as well as 'post box' enterprises, the introduction of specialised european training programmes and the organisation of cross-border checks. it is also important to have a european social security card, on which all the necessary data, such as the work schedule or social security, are recorded, so that the labour inspector can analyse all the necessary data on the spot. such a card has already been piloted in the construction sector and successfully implemented in sweden and luxembourg. it should be noted that the europe 2020 strategy draws attention to the need to increase the number of women in the labour market and it is important that labour inspectors have knowledge of working conditions for both women and men.
in writing. − as workplace inspections play a fundamental role in ensuring the exercise of rights, ensuring compliance with the law, knowledge of rights and obligations by those involved and the prevention of accidents and abuse, i believe that labour inspectors in the member states should be authorised to carry out field inspections, use intelligent inspection tools, cooperate with all relevant authorities, have an appropriate range of competence and work independently.
in writing. i voted in favour of this important report on labour inspections and for a strategy for improving working conditions in the european union. the text proposes the implementation of several tools which should make it possible to strengthen labour inspections in europe. several recent studies have shown that in 2012, undeclared work accounted for almost 18.8% of wealth produced in europe. this is a serious situation because it leaves the door open to abuse, exploitation of workers and social dumping. we need to strengthen the capacity of labour inspection authorities, which are often under-resourced and under-staffed. their work must ensure that workers' rights are respected and defended, involving both employers' and trade union representatives. it is however deeply regrettable that the european right voted against the introduction of a social responsibility clause in the european competition rules, which would have allowed the most serious cases of fraud to be penalized.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on effective workplace inspections as strategies to improve working conditions in europe. inspections at work play an important role in protecting workers' rights, ensuring health and safety at work and combating unsafe working environments, preventing breaches of labour protection rules, and promoting fair and socially responsible economic growth, as they help to ensure the effective payment of wages and social security contributions, thereby increasing tax revenues and social security funds, and ensuring that workers are insured against occupational disease and accidents and receive pensions. we urge member states to increase the human and financial resources of their labour inspectorates, to reach the target of one inspector per 10 000 workers, in line with the recommendations of the international labour organisation. we draw attention to the specific situation of home and remote workers who, in the context of working at home or away from their employers, may be subject to breaches of labour law if employers fail to fulfil their legal obligations towards them.
in writing. − i believe that employee financial participation schemes are formulas capable of providing direct financial benefits, superior to simple remuneration schemes, both in the form of capital participation and profit participation. the encouragement of such participation schemes should be considered by national and european authorities. however, in the current economic context, marked by the effects of the economic and financial crisis, the risks borne by employees participating in such schemes are considerable. therefore, it is important that they are closely monitored by the competent national and european authorities. member states should consider removing transnational barriers faced by european undertakings operating employee participation schemes. more attention should be paid to the issue of avoiding the possibility of double taxation or tax discrimination.
in writing. − employee financial participation, through greater involvement of workers in the decision-making processes of the enterprises for which they work, helps to strengthen good governance and ensures part of the financial benefits of a successful enterprise. employee financial participation can also strengthen smes by providing innovative financing mechanisms, as workers want to invest in the shares of the employing enterprise, capitalizing on the expansion. developing long-term investment by workers in their enterprises can help to provide stability and certainty, which strengthens smes and thus makes jobs more secure. this employee participation is highly conditioned by national legal frameworks and conditions. tax and taxation policies are essential for the design and implementation of employee financial participation schemes by enterprises in each member state. subsidiarity issues and continuing doubts about possible tax harmonisation make any concrete legislative action on these areas at eu level unlikely and inappropriate. the eu could provide a 'reference framework' with general guidance on basic principles and good practice to help guide decision-making at national and company level on employee financial participation schemes.
in writing. − i believe that member states should be encouraged to use, in cooperation with the social partners, worker participation organisations and the commission, existing information portals one-stop shops accessible to employers and employees, or to develop new ones, to explain the benefits and benefits as well as the risks of employee financial participation, the available national incentives and the different models in place, in order to enable employees and employers to make informed decisions on employee financial participation schemes, to identify the best option for contracts signed at company level and to better assess the options available to them and the challenges of employee participation in an employee financial participation scheme. i suggest that these single information portals should be attached to or included in existing competent bodies or authorities at national level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the financial participation of employees in the income of enterprises. an undertaking may choose one of three main models of employee financial participation: profit participation (in cash, tiered or equity), individual employee participation (shares or share options) and employee participation plans (esops). we stress that the financial participation of employees in the company's income involves a number of potential risks for them. therefore, financial participation should not be used to avoid compliance with labour law or as a means of reducing acquired social and labour rights or to use pressure to increase labour market flexibility. we encourage member states, in cooperation with the social partners, workers' participation organisations and the commission, to use existing information portals one-stop shops accessible to employers and employees, or to develop new ones, to explain the benefits and benefits as well as the risks of employee financial participation, the available national incentives and the different existing models. we suggest that these single information portals be attached to or included in existing competent bodies or authorities at national level.
in writing. − i support the legislative proposals on the social protection of european workers. the european union is facing increasing challenges from the increasing global economic interdependence, which require urgent action to adapt national economic systems to global transformations. in the context of the rapid development of self-employment, already recognised as a form of work that promotes job creation and the reduction of unemployment, i believe that the european union must adopt those measures capable of providing social protection to all workers engaged in such activities and, moreover, supporting those who are self-employed.
in writing. − social security systems in europe should help protect against risks and low incomes, and reduce inequalities in eu member states. the social protection level aims at guaranteeing income and access to basic social services for all residents, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable groups (unemployed, disabled people, single parents, young people, pensioners, young families, etc.). the minimum income, which plays an important role in ensuring solidarity and social justice, must also be guaranteed. in order to ensure sustainable and effective social protection, member states should develop and implement national strategies for the development of social security. one of the most important objectives of the social development strategy should be to guarantee social investment and its effectiveness, as it facilitates the coordination of social and economic objectives. they should not be considered as expenditure but rather as an investment that fosters better performance and sustainable economic growth. member states should allow all workers, including self-employed workers and spouses or partners participating in such activities, to reconcile work and caring responsibilities, giving workers flexibility in terms of their working hours.
in writing. − i believe that member states must ensure that education and childcare facilities are made available at a reasonable price and guarantee access for self-employed workers to public services and to relevant tax or social benefits related to childcare.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which calls for all european workers, including the selfemployed, to have equal access to social security. this resolution is welcome at this time of crisis, which has led to a considerable and worrying increase in unemployment in europe, affecting nearly 27 million people in the european union. this economic and financial crisis has led to a proliferation of austerity plans and policies, which have sometimes severely reduced pensions and social security benefits. i therefore welcome the fact that this resolution calls on member states to ensure adequate access to social security for all citizens, and in particular for the most vulnerable groups, such as the unemployed, the disabled, single parents, young people and the elderly. we must also ensure that the eu maintains its efforts to combat undeclared work and ensure that all workers have appropriate social protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. inequality is still a major problem in the european union and social protection is an essential mechanism to address these issues, in this difficult time for people in europe. the report focuses on important questions such as: sustainable and adequate social protection for all, based on the principles of universal access and non-discrimination and decent income scheme.
in writing. − i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the european strategy for social protection. i believe that a coherent approach to social protection is needed to promote social inclusion and social justice, to protect incomes and to guarantee high quality education and healthcare services for all. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on social protection for all, including self-employed workers, because i believe it is an essential pillar of sustainable inclusive growth and poverty reduction. in order to encourage entrepreneurship and achieve the europe 2020 objectives, it is important that self-employed persons also benefit from the safety net provided by social protection systems.
in writing. − social protection plays a key role in the european economic model, providing a guarantee of a minimum income, healthcare, education and social inclusion for disadvantaged citizens. although a matter for national states, social protection policy enjoys common objectives and indicators, thanks to the open method of coordination. unfortunately, social assistance is not guaranteed for all residents, who lack access to basic services, which places them in a vulnerable position. moreover, some eu citizens are discriminated against in the countries where they are temporarily resident, on the basis of prejudices that they would strictly pursue the attainment of an assisted status. i would point out that we must not start from the mistaken premise that migrant workers are exclusively concerned with social protection. i know an overwhelming number of compatriots who are actively looking for a job in the countries where they have settled, categorically refusing easy welfare status. i also draw attention to the danger that self-employed persons are not fully protected, benefiting from lower social rights. in many countries, this form of activity is abused by employers to avoid social contributions, and is a serious distortion of competition. the fundamental right must be guaranteed to all workers, regardless of their status, in accordance with european legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on social protection for all, including self-employed workers. i believe that member states should ensure the responsible and sustainable long-term financing of social security systems, especially in times of economic crisis, and develop a preventive component of social security systems and put more emphasis on activation measures, bearing in mind that one of the most important factors of social investments is that they allow reconciliation of social and economic objectives and can contribute to the long-term maintenance and development of the economy. i voted to see social investment as an investment, not an expense. i believe that the commission should examine legislation and monitor the implementation and coordination of social security systems, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. we draw the attention of member states to the fact that eu migrant workers working in another member state should not be subject to discriminatory social protection measures. i believe that all migrant workers in the eu should enjoy the same social security rights and have the possibility to be insured when working in another member state.
in writing. − in the current economic climate, a coherent approach to cohesion policy is needed to reduce pressure on national, regional and local budgets as quickly as possible. i support this draft resolution and consider it to be welcome also in view of the examination of the degree of preparation of the member states for the next period of funding of cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 budgetary year. the experience of the last budgetary year must be used and institutional arrangements must be adapted swiftly in order to take advantage of the development potential offered by eu cohesion policy in order to achieve the proposed objectives.
in writing. − in the current economic context, it is clear that national, local and regional budgets are under increasing pressure. for this reason, cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for more and more member states. in view of this, it is essential that member states and regions take the necessary measures to prepare the partnership agreements and operational programmes in a timely and effective manner so that they are ready to use the funding as soon as possible after an agreement on the common provisions regulation has been reached. i believe it is vital that projects can start as soon as possible at the beginning of 2014 so that european funding can be used to the maximum to stimulate growth in the regions.
in writing. − i voted for this report because of its particular importance for cohesion policies, as disparities between eu regions continue to exist and in some cases are increasing, and because the ongoing investment made from eu funding at local and regional level is extremely important to ensure that areas needing economic, social and environmental recovery receive uninterrupted support. i also welcome, as does the rapporteur, that 'one way of ensuring compatibility between the approach based on partnership agreements and the decentralised administrations in the member states is to include in these agreements separate chapters to be drafted by the regional administrations'.
in writing. − i believe that cohesion policy can make a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives and therefore i believe it is important to align cohesion policy with the europe 2020 objectives by focusing thematically on a limited number of objectives. i am convinced that this approach provides sufficient flexibility to respond to local and regional needs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the new programming period for cohesion policy. the report highlights that preparations for cohesion policy 2014-2020 are at different stages in the member states. i deplore the delays in romania, whose partnership agreement has been criticised in harsh terms by the european commission. i welcome the invitation to the commission to make public the state of preparation of the member states' partnership agreements. european citizens, who are in fact contributors to the community budget, need to be informed about how far along the preparations for the 2014-2020 period are in their country compared to other eu countries. i hope that through the improvements to the common provisions regulation and the simplification of procedures and bureaucracy, the impact of cohesion policy will increase and we will see a significant reduction in the gap between the west and the east of the european union.
in writing. − the new financial perspective of the european union provides for a new approach to strategic programming for cohesion policy, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in order to ensure the timely implementation of the new cohesion policy, it is essential that member states and regions make the necessary efforts to prepare the partnership agreements and operational programmes. i would like to point out that any delay will lead to a concentration of payment claims towards the end of the programming period. it is particularly important that projects can start on time so that european funding can be used effectively to boost growth and competitiveness in european regions. the principle of multi-level governance plays a crucial role in ensuring quality partnership agreements and operational programmes. i believe that the formulation of partnership agreements should be carried out in close cooperation with national, regional and local authorities during the planning, development and implementation of cohesion funding programmes. last but not least, i would like to underline the importance of simplifications and increased transparency in the management of the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the readiness of eu member states to start the new programming period for cohesion policy on time and effectively. member states are currently drawing up partnership agreements (pas) and operational programmes (ops) for the new programming period 2014-2020. we call on member states to introduce more measures to simplify bureaucracy and programme management. we underline the commission's request that member states and regions make efforts to ensure that the highest quality partnership agreements and operational programmes already drawn up are used. we recommend that the commission and national and regional authorities ensure a constant exchange of information, such as details of the implementing acts to be adopted. the commission should step up its support to ensure that partnership agreements and operational programmes of member states experiencing significant delays are approved as soon as possible. examining the progress made by member states during the preparation stages would help to reduce delays. during the implementation phase, the commission could come to the aid of those member states which have lagged behind.
in writing. − as shadow rapporteur, i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the european strategy on plastic waste, which can make an important contribution to the review of waste legislation to be completed this year. plastic has certain intrinsic characteristics that can create problems from a waste management point of view. that's why i think it's become imperative that, both at the european level and at the national level, we better manage how plastic is interfering with our environment and our health. i recall that the environment is one of the four policy areas most prone to breaches of legislation and i believe that the application of the rules already adopted in the field of waste will undoubtedly also contribute to much better recycling and recovery of plastic waste. there are disparities between member states in the way they manage plastic waste, which is why i have advocated a cautious approach in setting binding targets or targets if we want the targets we set to be achievable.
in writing. - plastic has become an inevitable material in our modern world. plastics are versatile and durable, but their durability can make disposing of them problematic. once in the environment, especially in the marine environment, plastic waste can persist for hundreds of years. up to 10 million tons of waste, mostly plastic, ends up in the world's seas and oceans every year, turning them into the largest landfill of plastic waste on the planet. in our 'use and throw away' society, plastic is often perceived as a cheap and easy to throw away material and recycling rates are low. half of the plastic waste generated in europe ends up in landfills, which should be avoided, as plastics can contain hazardous elements and dumping can generate unwanted emissions and concentrated and polluting residues.
in writing. − i believe that energy recovery of plastic waste should only be used when all other possibilities have been exhausted and provided that technologies with appropriate purifiers are used to avoid damage to the environment and human health.
in writing. − i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the european strategy on plastic waste in the environment. i believe that a coherent approach to the issue of plastic waste is needed in european legislation and that we need adequate funding for waste recycling infrastructure as an alternative to landfilling and incineration. i also believe that member states and the european commission need to develop and implement appropriate measures to combat illegal dumping and exports of plastic waste, including monitoring programmes and inspections in ports and waste treatment plants. it is also useful to harmonise the criteria for the collection, sorting and general management of waste across the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european strategy on plastic waste in the environment. full implementation of eu waste legislation could save €72 billion a year, increase the annual turnover of the eu waste management and recycling sector by €42 billion and create over 400 000 jobs by 2020. we call for more public and private investment in research and technology to achieve more sustainable plastics (e.g. lower consumption of raw materials while maintaining the same quality and the same possibility of reuse and recycling) and better integration of different types in production processes and recycling activities without compromising the quality of materials. we argue that horizon 2020 could provide opportunities to address this important societal need and that the benefits would be significant for both the environment and citizens, from the creation of new economic activities to the reduction of marine litter and health risks. it can provide young people in particular with the opportunity to integrate into the labour market by engaging in new fields of activity.
in writing. − i believe that the regional quality label should contribute to the preservation of europe's image as a high-quality tourist destination, based on the different sectors of activity specific to regional tourism, such as agro-tourism, rural tourism, ecotourism and gastronomic tourism, as well as on the industrial, historical, natural and cultural heritage, including also bicycle paths that can be combined with public transport.
in writing. - as part of the measures for the development of rural areas, it is desirable to create a regional quality label, which links products and services of a region with its historical and cultural characteristics. this is to encourage the development of territorial resources, the promotion of excellent products and the provision of development tools, especially in rural areas. the regional trade mark would also be able to ensure greater protection of products and their promotion in a globalised economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the regional quality mark and i am glad that the amendments put forward by the shadow rapporteur of the european people's party are in the text of the resolution. it is very important that good governance and sustainable forms of territorial governance are reflected in the member states' rural development programmes for the period 2014-2020. i support the idea that rural development programmes should be multisectoral, while maintaining the centrality of agricultural activity, and i welcome the invitation to the european commission to support member states' efforts to recognise and promote new forms of cooperation for rural areas, around the brand of excellence, using the instruments included in the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and believe that all the issues raised and the measures proposed should be reflected in the member states' national rural development programmes. eu countries should be encouraged to give a central role to the dissemination of best practice in the rural economy and to allocate substantial resources to its protection and promotion. such an approach would be a wise use of european funds and would bring benefits to producers, consumers and increased opportunities for promotion on international markets.
in writing. − the report's findings, which encourage the prioritisation of new development models in rural areas, are welcome and should be supported. the report states that the area from a development perspective is not an administrative unit but a social structure with which people identify. in my view, special resources such as social cohesion, acquired knowledge, historical heritage, their specific organisations and institutions and local identity should be taken into account. i agree that rural areas can adopt a survival strategy in the context of territorial projects using this approach. however, the current text is not clear on the use of the regional trade mark. the extent to which rural and cultural diversity affects the usability of a given mark should be clarified. it is necessary to define the conditions and criteria for the award of the trade mark and to clarify who is competent to award the trade mark and which competent institution will be responsible for the operation of the system. existing trade marks and brands should be implementable into new regional brands. the criteria must also take into account the extent of the regional use of the mark.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the regional brand: best practice in the rural economy. agricultural regions play a multifunctional role, involving not only agricultural development but also other economic and social activities that revolve around local strengthening of skills, know-how and investment. the regional quality label should contribute to the preservation of europe's image as a high-quality tourist destination, based on the different sectors of activity specific to regional tourism, such as agro-tourism, rural tourism, ecotourism and gastronomic tourism, as well as on the industrial, historical, natural and cultural heritage, including also bicycle paths that can be combined with public transport. initiatives such as the eden (european destinations of excellence) network promote competitiveness, help develop sustainable and high-quality tourism at regional level and contribute to the involvement of local institutions, the establishment of partnerships and the diversification of the actors involved in the creation of the regional quality brand. we invite the commission to include the various forms of tourism linked to rural activities in the related actions and programmes, such as eden, calypso, etc. it is necessary to support rural tourism activities through specific actions and programmes.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regi committee. − mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have brought their powers and expertise to improve and simplify public procurement legislation. it should be stressed once again that the current public procurement system is particularly complex and difficult to apply at member state level without generating a high percentage of errors and irregularities. it is therefore of the utmost importance to improve the efficiency of the management and allocation of public money in general, but especially of european funds. in concrete terms, we need clear, simple, precise, predictable and transparent, credible guidelines to support the member states and, in particular, local and regional authorities. as regards small and medium-sized enterprises, given their high potential for absorbing labour, for innovation and for development, they must be encouraged by specific means, by appropriate measures and encouraged to participate in this public procurement process, both at local and regional level.
mr president, there can hardly be a more timely debate on public procurement. reform is not only needed, it is long overdue. as shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, i especially welcome the debate on the award of concession contracts. in this day and age it is unacceptable that there are still numerous cases of contracts being directly awarded without any transparency. when a third of businesses, associations and public authorities have said they are aware of such cases, it is no wonder that the existing legislation is not providing the right framework. if there is room for corruption outside the existing legal outline, the questions of who gets access – and how they get access – to such contracts should be better defined within specific criteria. that is why we have fully supported specific obligations regarding selection and award standards, which must ensure fair competition.
public procurement policy plays a key role in the efficient use of public funds, contributing to the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the revision of the public procurement directives is an ambitious and realistic project, which supports local and regional authorities. the updating of the rules aims at simplifying them, making them more efficient and user-friendly, and at establishing rigorous procedures based on award criteria that also take into account innovation and sustainability. given that public procurement constitutes a significant part of the economy, estimated at 19% of eu gdp, the successful review and implementation of public procurement rules can contribute significantly to overcoming the current crisis of the european economy. i welcome the simplification measures, which are designed to facilitate the participation of smes in public procurement, with an impact on job creation, development and innovation. congratulations to the reporters.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my view the directive brings welcome improvements, but not enough. we all know that one of the biggest reasons why the absorption of european funds is limited is the public procurement at european level itself. i'm drawing attention to a very important fact. we are talking about a directive, not a regulation. this means that each member state, each government, each parliament has the power to implement this directive in the way they want, and not as would be required, uniformly at the european level. what does that mean? what does that mean? that there will again be opportunities to award contracts according to the political wishes of governments. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the government of romania, which has already granted the power to mayors to allocate contracts to relatives. the commission must follow this phenomenon closely.
member of the commission. - madam president, i thank each and every one of you during this long debate, which was justified by your attention and your almost general support for the work that has been undertaken for two years, or even much earlier, to prove malcolm harbour right, since even before this new mandate - ours and mine - your committee on the internal market and consumer protection had dealt with the question of the renewal of the european framework for public procurement in order to simplify and qualify it. mr plenković referred to the figure i had quoted earlier to show the economic importance of this subject: 19% of european gdp. that's what the public order is all about. we therefore had to make this public order more effective in combating unemployment and, at the same time, in securing jobs, at a time when the battle for growth is so important. we have made real progress and i would like to point out to mrs gebhardt that the commission's texts can always be improved. i have been a commissioner for quite some time and i start from the principle that the commission is not always right and that it must listen to the citizens from the outside - we did that in this particular case - and at the same time accept and even want its texts to be improved, sometimes by the council and, generally, by the european parliament. that was the case here, and i thank you for that. this is a real step forward for quality and many of you, mrs corazza bildt, earlier, mrs schaldemose, mrs vergnaud, just now, mr mikolášik and mrs gutiérrez-cortines, have mentioned the better-known versus the only choice of the lesser-known. i think it is a real step forward to have, with the best of intentions, legally secured and encouraged the choice of public authorities for more innovative, more social or more ecological solutions. that's a real step up. there is another advance: simplification. mr engel, earlier, said that he regretted that it was not enough. we will always do better, even if we have to let these texts live their lives for a few years to evaluate them and see how effective they are, but frankly, the reduction of constraints, especially for the documentation imposed on smes, is a real step forward in simplification. it is a real shock of simplification, just like the digitisation of public procurement throughout the european union, which i have mentioned, which will be a real step forward in terms of simplification and economy. it is also a step forward for transparency, as mrs weiler and mr murphy have pointed out. these texts contain definitions, tools to combat scourges: corruption, of course, but also favoritism. finally, progress has been made in clarifying - i am using the words of mrs castex or mrs thun - the distinction between public authorities in the use of public procurement or, sometimes, it is useful, the use of concessions. so these are real advances, which must be implemented now. i would like to repeat what andrea schwab said, and to remind you that once you have voted on these texts, it will be up to the member states to transpose and implement them quickly. i shall therefore be concentrating, particularly with the conference we will be organising with malcolm harbour on 13 march, on mobilising the member states so that there is rapid progress in the implementation of these simplification and qualification texts for public procurement in each of the 28 member states. i am glad to take advantage of the presence of my colleague and friend, karel de gucht, first of all to apologize to him and to you for not staying for the following debate which interests me and concerns me on reciprocity in public procurement, but it so happens that a very important trilogue has been taking place since the beginning of the afternoon - i hope it is conclusive - on a major financial regulation text concerning mifid and i will join this trilogue. i therefore thank my colleague karel de gucht for speaking for us in this debate. mrs rühle has just mentioned an important issue, namely the possible consequences of certain international negotiations - which is something i have also pointed out to my colleague karel de gucht - so that certain standards, particularly in public procurement, which we have included in these texts, are not called into question by international negotiations. in any case, mrs rühle, i will be very careful. in thanking each of the speakers, in thanking president malcolm harbour, and beyond that, for the considerable work done by my own services, dg markt, which has done a lot of work on this subject, i would like to say a special word of thanks to marc tarabella and philippe juvin for their tenacity, their competence and their availability, which were the keys to success so that this public procurement package could be completed in time, before the end of our mandate, and bring about the real progress i mentioned earlier.
in writing. the concession directive will provide greater legal stability for all actors involved. in the current economic context, it will also lead to a more efficient use of public money. the focus should be on exploiting the potential of smes, which needed such a legal framework to become more competitive in the internal market and to improve their business opportunities offered by concession contracts. as regards public procurement, irregularities in this sector restrict competition and affect financial interests at national and european level. for example, in romania, the main finding of the latest cvm reports was a lack of transparency in this area. while the current public procurement directives have proven their effectiveness, we need a new, modern legislative framework to address today's economic challenges. the new directive brings important changes, such as the promotion of the 'best value for money' principle, which will shift the focus to quality. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: this will increase the efficiency of public spending and guarantee the best value for money and sustainable development.
in writing. the agreement at first reading on the legislative package on public procurement and concession contracts is a significant success for the eu's internal market and i believe it will bring positive changes for both public authorities and businesses interested in obtaining public contracts, while ensuring the efficient and responsible spending of public money. the reform of the legislative framework is first and foremost an exercise in simplification and clarification. the new legislation will increase transparency in contract award, encourage the procurement of innovative products and services and allow for the strategic use of public procurement through synergies with other public policies. the choice of the most economically advantageous offer as opposed to the cheapest one and the possibility of taking into account social and environmental criteria constitutes a necessary change of approach in this respect. i am pleased to see in the final text elements strongly supported by the liberal group which will favour the participation of smes in public procurement procedures, such as the division of contracts into lots or the lowering of the minimum annual turnover required to participate in a public procurement procedure. the establishment of rules for the award of concession contracts, which until now were awarded directly, favouring clientelism, is another undeniable progress.
madam president, according to european commission estimates, in the european union, purchasing accounts for between 15% and 20% of gdp, with 85% of european markets being open, which represents eur 352 billion. public procurement also plays an important role in trade negotiations with third countries, as european companies are more competitive in several areas. it is regrettable that many third countries prefer to adopt protectionist measures, such as imposing technology transfers as a precondition for the award of public contracts, which restrict access to the public procurement market. the joint proposal by commissioners barnier and de gucht aims to respond to these challenges through a reciprocity mechanism. the european union could thus have the possibility to restrict market access in turn for third countries that do not open their markets to european companies. i welcome this proposal, provided that certain developing countries whose economic situation does not allow them to open up their markets fully must be protected.
madam president, i support the proposal by the commission, the rapporteur and most of my colleagues to consider pollen as a natural constituent of honey, and not an ingredient. it is important to have consumer protection in mind, but the same emphasis should be placed on encouraging and supporting beekeepers, given that the beekeeping sector provides the main or additional income for more than 600 000 citizens in the european union, provides vital services for agriculture through pollination, contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity, and beekeeping is part of the european agricultural heritage and national traditions. i think it is really important that the european union provides support, with clear objectives, to young beekeepers to counterbalance the unfavourable age structure in the agricultural sector. (the president agreed to answer two questions put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. i think my colleague, mr. stoyanov, did not understand. in fact, i support the commission's proposal. this is not an additional cost if the pollen is a constituent, not an ingredient. so i don't see the connection with this question to my speech. certainly most of my colleagues have spoken in favour of natural pollen as a constituent of honey, and i have campaigned for help for beekeepers, not for an additional burden for them.
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. i stressed that both consumer protection must be dealt with in a balanced way so i referred to gmo crops but at the same time i felt that the problems of beekeepers must also be dealt with. so i am in favour of labelling and i am in favour of the amendment which mr tabajdi and you, mr arsenis, are supporting.
the reporter. - mr president, commissioner šemeta, ladies and gentlemen, the hercule iii programme will finance the purchase of equipment and concrete actions to combat smuggling of cigarettes and other goods, counterfeiting and fraud. in 2011 alone, member states lost over eur 11 billion in tax revenues due to cigarette smuggling. this money obviously went into the pockets of those who control organized crime. smuggling methods are evolving rapidly and new modes of operation are emerging. for example, in 2012, the crew of a russian cargo plane smuggled some 4 million cigarettes into finland. they did this by flying weekly to finland. in july 2012, slovak authorities discovered a smuggling tunnel built from uzhgorod, ukraine, to slovak territory. the funds to be allocated by hercule iii, the regulation which we will vote on tomorrow and which i hope will be adopted, are intended for: the purchase of scanning equipment to identify contraband in lorries and tirs; the purchase of automatic systems for the recognition of codes on containers and registration plates; the purchase of electronic surveillance equipment and for encrypted communications. between 2007 and 2013, romania, my country, received about 3.5 million euros through the hercule ii budget. in 2013, nine projects in romania received funding under hercule ii for the purchase of automatic number plate recognition systems needed by the police to detect and track vehicles suspected of being involved in illegal activities, for the training and transport of service dogs, for the purchase of equipment for detecting false or falsified documents and for the purchase of tracking and tracing equipment. hercule iii has a budget of over eur 104 million and is the third generation of the hercule programme. as rapporteur, my aim was to ensure that hercule iii addresses the weaknesses identified in the implementation of the hercule ii programme. therefore, among the changes are: the evaluation of the concrete results of the activities financed by the hercule programme (for example, a concrete evaluation is the amount of contraband cigarettes that have been confiscated using the money from this programme); transparency in the management of the programme, because we want to know what the member states are doing with this money; cooperation and coordination between the member states, olaf and the commission. at least 75% of the budget of the hercule iii programme will be invested in technical assistance, i.e. in the purchase of appropriate and modern equipment. i'm telling you, this equipment is expensive. for example, an x-ray container scanner costs about 1.5 million euros. another important issue the co-financing rate from the european commission is kept at a maximum of 80% of the eligible costs. for member states with a high risk of smuggling, the co-financing rate goes up to 90%. according to the 2013 annual risk analysis of frontex, the level of cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting is higher in the member states which border by land or sea with ukraine, the russian federation and belarus. it is crucial to defend those member states that cannot afford sufficient resources because, in the end, all member states benefit from this measure. it goes without saying that once smuggled into the european union, into one member state of the union, the products are smuggled into all the states of the union. it is therefore in the interest of all union states, even if they are not at the union border, to contribute financially to ensuring the protection of the european union's borders against smuggling. finally, i would like to thank the irish and lithuanian presidencies, under whom we negotiated and held the trilogue, the rapporteurs from the other groups, the european commission and even olaf, with whom we had many disputes but reached a consensus on the finalisation of this regulation.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the discussion today clearly demonstrates the high importance you attach to this programme, hercule iii, and to the fight against fraud and corruption. i believe that the programme will contribute to that fight. many of you spoke about cigarette smuggling, and this is a big problem for the european union. in june 2013, the commission adopted a strategy for combating cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting. the strategy provides for some 50 actions to be implemented, and this programme will, of course, serve the implementation of the strategy very well. i fully agree with mr balčytis that there is a need for good communication about this programme, although i have to say that lithuania was a successful recipient of the programme, using it to purchase certain equipment. nevertheless i agree with you that we need to make more effort to familiarise our member states with the benefits of the programme. to turn to the issues regarding reporting, i think this is probably the biggest change in the new programme, compared with hercule ii. under the hercule iii programme you will be able to receive annual reports from the commission, describing, among other things, the added value of the actions implemented throughout the year. so the programme will provide for full monitoring of its implementation and also for demonstrating the added value of the actions implemented. the proposal envisages the production of the report on the hercule ii programme by the end of this year, so i would just like to tell ms gräβle that this report will be made available as provided for in the programme, and it will, of course, present all the hercule ii implementing actions. there have been lively discussions between the institutions but, thanks to the substantial efforts of ms macovei, we managed to reach agreement before the end of 2013. this allows us to launch hercule iii only a few weeks after the end of hercule ii and to ensure the necessary continuity. i am confident that hercule iii, like its predecessors, will make an important contribution to strengthening the european union’s capacity to prevent and effectively fight fraud involving its financial interests. thank you very much for your attention. i look forward to a positive vote tomorrow.
the reporter. − first of all, thank you for the congratulations from the commissioner and from my colleagues and political groups. in short, what i heard from all the members today is unanimously that parliament wants transparency from the commission and olaf on how these projects are managed. we want more transparency from the member states on how they actually use the money from each project for which they have received money from the european commission. we want to know what they did with the money and make sure that every euro was spent efficiently and, if it wasn't, we can take action. parliament will be involved in the regular verification of the effectiveness of the programme and in the establishment of the annual programmes. finally, i would like to say that hercule iii is a small european programme in financial terms compared to the proposed objectives and, as rapporteur, i expect the regulation to be implemented swiftly. we also need to invest more money to fight counterfeiting, smuggling and organised crime.
the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, the proposal to adopt this new regulation on tachographs in road transport, repealing regulation no 3821/85 and amending regulation (ec) no 561/2006 reflects the agreement reached with the council on 14 may 2013 under the irish presidency. the report strikes a balance between road safety and improving working conditions on the one hand, and respecting drivers' privacy and data on the other. i would like to stress in particular the following points of the compromise reached following the three rounds of trilogue with the irish presidency. parliament supported the introduction of the smart tachograph as it will help improve the implementation of legislation and will be a means of reducing the level of administrative burden related to tachograph obligations for transport companies in the medium and long term. we want the smart tachograph to be efficient, but affordable. the smart tachograph will include two new functions: remote communication, used to carry out checks, and recording of location data. in addition to introducing new safeguards related to data protection and confidentiality, the agreement further elaborates these functions. as regards distance communication, in no case may it lead to automatic fines or penalties for the driver or the undertaking. member states are required to equip their control officers with remote communication equipment before a set deadline. the distance communication mechanism should use a simplified and therefore accessible technology that limits member states' investments as much as possible. as regards the recording of location data, more points than the beginning and end of the daily working period have been introduced for a better application of controls. the recording shall be carried out automatically and after three hours of continuous driving. the satellite signal to be used will be free of charge. the agreed time-frame for the placing on the market of the smart tachograph is 36 months after the entry into force of the detailed technical specifications. all tachographs connected to a computer application shall use a standardised interface after a period of 36 months. the requirements for tachographs now include specific references to competition in the manufacturer's market. new provisions were also included in the text of the regulation on the functions of tachographs, the data to be recorded, warnings and the display of information to the driver. the text introduces new safeguards on data protection and privacy in a specific data protection article in chapter 1. parliament insisted that a provision on modernisation be included in the text so that 15 years after the introduction of the smart tachograph on the market, all new vehicles should be equipped with such a tachograph. the text strengthens the role of control officers. the commission will establish the content of the training courses for control officers in the european union, including a common interpretation of social legislation. as regards temporary cards, the control of non-resident drivers will be improved by granting them permission to use digital tachographs. the provisions on the liability of transport companies have been amended to make the text clearer as regards the obligations and liability of companies. the provision on the merger of driving licences and driver cards has been deleted from the text and i have asked the commission to withdraw its proposal. as regards regulation (ec) no 561/2006 on the harmonisation of certain provisions of social legislation relating to road transport, parliament's main concern has been to ensure that the legislation applies only to professional drivers. the agreed text does not impose the obligation to use tachographs for vehicles of less than 7,5 tonnes used for the transport of materials, equipment or machinery used by the driver in the exercise of his profession and used only within a 100 km radius of the business premises and provided that the driver's main activity is not driving the vehicle. i conclude by saying that, as regards the national derogations referred to in article 13 of regulation (ec) no 561/2006, the agreed text follows the commission's proposal to double the range from the current value of 50 km to 100 km.
the reporter. - madam president, i would like to thank both the shadow rapporteurs and the commission and the irish presidency - indeed, all the presidencies that have accompanied us during the two years of negotiations - and in particular the staff of the committee on transport and tourism for having helped us to reach this consensus. as regards the comments by mrs van der kammen and mrs dodds, i would like to stress that there will be no continuous recording, but only a recording of the location at the beginning and end of the working day and after only three consecutive hours of driving. parliament also introduced new provisions on the protection of personal data. this regulation introduced a new exception, that at european level this regulation only applies to professional drivers. i think this regulation is important, because it will reduce the time drivers spend with traffic controls. i would like to conclude, madam president, by asking the commission to come forward within a reasonable time with the technical specifications of article 11.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for bringing this issue of european reindustrialisation to the debate in parliament and i thank mr tajani for making the european institutions aware of the need to act to develop europe's industrial base. you are right, commissioner, industrial development is not just a matter of balancing energy policy and climate change with the requirements of industrial competitiveness, a problem highlighted by many industrial companies. for example, in my country, romania, we almost no longer have vocational education to prepare young people for the specific jobs required by industry. this is why we need a european programme with an integrated approach to industrial base development and able to coordinate efforts at both european and member state level. we also need europe to continue producing steel and petrochemicals, because the generations, the new generations of young people will not only work in the top industries, and these industries create many jobs. we need europe to become a magnet again for companies to relocate their investments, their industrial production from china and other asian countries to europe, to the united states.
madam president, commissioner, the future of the union, its competitiveness and jobs in its territory depend on an ambitious and eco-efficient industrial policy. this industrial policy must be aligned with the union's objectives on employment, innovation, increased energy efficiency and reduced emissions. i consider it important that the union produces the products and materials needed to achieve the energy efficiency and renewable energy targets, thus reducing imports from third countries. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the measures in force. i come from a city based on the steel industry and therefore i stress the very important role of energy-intensive industries that produce essential basic materials and draw attention to the fact that these industries are at risk of carbon leakage and that therefore special precautionary measures are needed to maintain their competitiveness.
madam president, the reindustrialisation of the union is an essential condition for overcoming the crisis. firstly, it is necessary to target those sectors that generate jobs, such as the automotive industry, which is so well represented in europe by dacia. facilitating financing for european producers and stimulating traditional industries are priorities in this context. encouraging innovation and research can strengthen competitiveness at european level. unfortunately, the romanian industry does not have a clear direction of development. meanwhile, unemployment is rising and foreign investment is falling every year. this despite the socialist government's promise last year to create over 50,000 jobs and attract foreign investment. but so far, these investments are only on paper, and the government's lack of vision is only driving away foreign investors.
madam president, commissioner, the competitiveness of european industry is facing unprecedented problems, primarily due to internal factors such as limited investment in research and innovation, difficult access to finance, red tape and high energy prices. at the same time, the costs of industrial production in the eu have become too high to cope with the economies of emerging countries, and the differences in industrial competitiveness are gradually widening. the regions of the union can use community financial instruments aimed at technological innovation, the creation of new products and services, contributing to the increase of employment. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was not granted in the form of a grant to the beneficiaries, but was granted in the form of a grant to the beneficiaries. industrial production must be as close as possible to consumers in the major markets, and the framework for the return of european production from third countries must therefore be created.
in writing. one of the sectors most affected by the crisis in europe is the industrial sector, with over three million jobs lost, and the risk of a shortage of skilled workers in industry-specific occupations. however, industry remains a major driver of economic growth, innovation and sustainability, but europe needs strong policies and adequate financial resources to support a new 'industrial revolution' in the eu, based on new technologies (nanotechnologies, biotechnologies, microelectronics) and to avoid widening the gap between the union and the other peaks (the united states, the brics countries). as such, i support the rapporteur's view that there is a need to ensure support from future cohesion policy and the european structural and investment funds for the reindustrialisation of the union and its regions through a truly modern industrial policy, for industrial innovation to launch a response to the challenges of sustainable energy sources, climate change and the efficient use of both material and human resources, by promoting lifelong learning to adapt to the permanent challenges.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's decision on the powers and duties of the parliamentary standing committees. i voted to amend the powers of the itre commission to include: 1. the union's industrial policy and related measures, as well as the application of new technologies, small and medium-sized enterprises; 2. the union's research and innovation policy, including science and technology, and the dissemination and exploitation of research results; 3. the european space policy; 4. the activities of the joint research centre, the european research council, the ieit and the institute for reference materials and measurements, as well as jet, iter and other projects in the same field; 5. measures at union level in the field of energy policy and the establishment and functioning of the internal energy market, the security of energy supply in the union, the promotion of energy efficiency and energy saving, the development of new and renewable energy sources, the promotion of energy network interconnection and energy efficiency, the establishment and development of trans-european networks in the energy infrastructure sector; 6. the euratom treaty and the euratom supply agency (eaa); nuclear safety, decommissioning and disposal of nuclear waste; 7. the information society, information technology and communications networks and services, including secure technologies, the establishment and development of trans-european networks in the area of telecommunications infrastructure, and the activities of enisa.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision repealing council decision 2007/124/ec, euratom establishing for the period 2007-2013 the general programme 'security and safeguarding freedoms' and the specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security related risks', approving the draft council decision. council decision 2007/124/ec, euratom establishes the specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks' covering the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2013. a new regulation providing for financial support for police cooperation, crime prevention and combating and crisis management as part of the internal security fund is to be introduced for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. decision 2007/124/ec, euratom should therefore be repealed with effect from 1 january 2014. the envisaged repeal shall not affect the continuation or modification, including the total or partial cancellation, of projects under the programme until their closure date or until the date of approval of the financial assistance by the commission on the basis of decision 2007/124/ec, euratom or any other legal act applying to that financial assistance on 31 december 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for cooperation in science and technology between the european community and the government of the russian federation, approving the conclusion of the agreement. by decision 2000/742/ec, the council approved the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the russian federation (the 'agreement'). article 12 (b) of the agreement provides that the agreement may be renewed by agreement of the parties for additional periods of five years. by decision 2009/313/ec, the council last approved the renewal of the agreement for a further period of five years. following a joint review of the agreement, both parties took note of the recommendation of the independent experts that the agreement should be renewed for a further period of five years in its current form. the parties to the agreement consider that a renewal of the agreement would be in their mutual interest. the content of the renewed agreement will be identical to the content of the agreement which expires on 20 february 2014. the renewal of the agreement for cooperation in science and technology between the european community and the government of the russian federation for a further period of five years is hereby approved on behalf of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins to be put into circulation. the union's single system for the issue of money should gain public trust and generate technological innovation to ensure that it is a secure, reliable and effective system. it should also allow for the fight against counterfeiting. the commission shall publish all relevant information concerning the new designs for the national sides of circulation coins in the official journal of the european union. any objections raised by the commission shall be communicated to the european parliament. circulation coins have a common european side and a distinctive national side. no indication of the face value of the coin or any part of that face value shall be repeated on the national side of circulation coins. the name of the single currency or the names of its subdivisions shall not be repeated on the national side, unless such indication results from the use of a different alphabet. the national sides of circulation coins, irrespective of their denominations, shall bear an indication of the issuing member state, or the name of the issuing member state or an abbreviation thereof. issuing member states shall update their national sides of the regular coins to fully comply with this regulation by 20 june 2062.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eu-asean relations are of the utmost importance for the economic and social development of europe. these relations are often underestimated and put on the back burner in relation to the major asian powers china, india and japan. the process of integration within aesen cannot be left without consideration of emerging political powers and economic and demographic challenges. europe, for its part, must continue to strengthen its economic links in order to foster useful synergies and mutual learning processes.
in writing. − the asean region is a growing region with significant economic potential on a global scale. the eu should support asean's objective of creating an internal market by 2015 as this would promote prosperity and cooperation in the region. a legislative framework for the interregional free trade agreement needs to be developed immediately in order to take advantage of the opportunities of this cooperation. moreover, the eu needs to step up its cooperation with asean states in the area of exchanges of good practice, not only on economic issues, but also on environmental policy, the defence of fundamental rights, the protection of freedom of expression and the protection of the rule of law and security. relations with asean are often neglected in favour of china, japan and india, but we need to pay more attention to an economic potential that will soon be comparable to that of the eu, the us and even china.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on future eu-asean relations. the eu and asean share common values and common political and economic interests, which should be further developed as a matter of priority to the level of a strategic partnership. the commission's research and innovation programme horizon 2020 should be promoted more actively among the scientific institutions in the region. we underline the important role of exchange programmes such as erasmus in facilitating youth mobility, intercultural cooperation at student level and research between eu and asean higher education institutions. we suggest the establishment of asean study centres in european universities and eu study centres in asean universities and the extension of joint degree opportunities. the eu should expand english-language university programmes to facilitate better access for asian students to european universities, while eu researchers should be supported to participate in research programmes in asia in cooperation with the asean university network (aun); the eu should also step up political dialogues and cooperation on issues such as fundamental rights, including those of ethnic and religious minorities, while protecting freedom of expression and the free flow of information.
in writing. − asean's main objective is to create an internal market for 600 million people by 2015. the pursuit of this objective will lead to the transformation of asean into a competitive market, comparable to the eu, us, china, japan or india markets. in this context, it is significant that the report on eu-asean relations draws attention to the relations between the union and asean, which for no reason are often overlooked in favour of relations with china, japan and india. we voted for this report which shows the concern of the european legislator to strengthen cooperation between the two markets, especially as asean's purchasing power and the size of its economy are already comparable to those of china and the political environment of asean is developing. i also voted for this report because it concerns the eu's relations with asean as a whole and not with individual member states of this geo-political organisation. bilateral relations are to be dealt with in special resolutions expected to be adopted on parliament's recommendations on the negotiation of partnership and cooperation agreements or on defence procedures and accompanying reports on the implementation of new partnership and cooperation agreements.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to reduce the administrative burden on recording equipment in road transport by making full use of new technologies and introducing a series of new regulatory measures which will increase the safety of road infrastructure. i support the introduction of 'smart' tachographs as they will contribute to better implementation of driving and rest times, to increase road safety and make fraud, misuse and manipulation easier to detect by allowing data transfer and remote verification, via wireless transmissions to control authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of adopting the regulation on tachographs in road transport, repealing council regulation (eec) no 3821/85 on recording equipment in road transport and amending regulation (ec) no 561/2006 of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of certain provisions of social legislation relating to road transport. i voted against amendment no. 1 which calls for the rejection of the agreement on digital tachographs. the tachograph is used in road transport to monitor compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods, with a view to ensuring road safety, decent working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport undertakings. the aim of the regulation, which will replace the current one dating from 1985, is to reduce the scope for fraud, to enforce social rules more effectively and to reduce administrative burden by making full use of new technologies and introducing a range of new regulatory measures. the text of the new regulation brings improvements in terms of remote communication for carrying out checks, recording of location data, intellectual property rights, data protection and confidentiality, the role of control officers and the liability of transport companies.
mr president, i welcome the initiative to have a single european framework for concessions, particularly in the field of public procurement in the new member states. i'm going to give you some very concrete examples. at present, 60% of public-private partnership contracts in europe fall under the category of concessions. we therefore need to develop a legal structure through which businesses and other contracting entities can benefit from opportunities within the community and not just in their own countries. we all know that this framework is implemented differently from state to state. in romania, my home country, unfortunately, at the moment, the legislative regulations allow mayors to award concession contracts directly, including to relatives. i would ask the european commission to monitor this phenomenon closely.
in writing. − the small and medium-sized enterprises sector is one of the most dynamic sectors of european economies. since its contribution not only to community gdp but also to european competitiveness and innovation is essential, i believe that ensuring greater legal certainty for economic operators in this sector and guaranteeing their access to the concession market is an important objective for the european union. in addition, in order to facilitate a dynamic and competitive approach, i believe that the institutional process in this sector must reflect the european union's interest in developing strategic infrastructure and services.
in writing. − the adoption of the new directive on the award of concession contracts ends a period of legal uncertainty as regards service concessions, which are governed solely by the principles of the treaty, often interpreted differently by the member states. this situation has led to the absence of competition and direct award of contracts, which has encouraged corruption and patronage. the text of the directive is simpler and less prescriptive than the original proposal and is an instrument with which i hope public authorities will be able to work effectively. the establishment of procedural safeguards, combined with the freedom of public authorities to organise proceedings in the way they consider most appropriate, is, in my view, the right approach. the text adopted also takes account of the specific nature of the concessions, leaving the necessary flexibility, for example, for amending existing contracts. contrary to some rumours, i would like to stress that this directive does not lead to the privatisation of public services, as it enshrines the freedom of the authorities to organise these services as they see fit. the directive also contains some aspects that are not necessarily ideal, such as the exclusion of the water sector and the overly broad definition of cooperation between public authorities, but overall this first text is good, any shortcomings can be remedied later on the basis of experience.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the award of concession contracts, which adopts the european parliament's position at first reading. the absence of clear rules at union level governing the award of concession contracts creates legal uncertainty and obstacles to the free movement of services and disrupts the functioning of the internal market. as a result, economic operators, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, are deprived of their rights in the internal market and miss out on important business opportunities, while public authorities may fail to identify the optimal use of public money so that union citizens benefit from quality services at the best prices. according to the position adopted, the directive lays down rules applicable to procurement procedures used by contracting authorities and contracting entities through a concession, the value of which is estimated to be at least equal to the threshold of eur 5 186 000. the value of a concession shall be the total turnover of the concessionaire generated during the contract, exclusive of vat, as estimated by the contracting authority or contracting entity, in exchange for the works and services covered by the concession, and for goods ancillary to those works and services.
mr president, we all know that the directive on the modernisation of public procurement in the european union brings some improvements, but in my view these are insufficient. we still have favouritism, we still have nepotism, we still unfortunately lack the procedures for implementing this legislation, that is, it is implemented differently from one member state to another, and there is still no correlation between european public procurement legislation and the implementation of projects financed by european funds, which could lead to more competitiveness, which is again lacking. unfortunately, these elements are not reflected in this new legislative act. moreover, it seems that some countries are finding ways through various portals to give their friends their own public contracts.
in writing. − the legislative proposal to amend public procurement procedures must take into account the institutional competences of the authorities initiating such procedures. i also consider that any legislative approach at this level must be compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the formulation of the requirements for participation in public procurement should also take into account the economic impact at the level of economic operators. i believe that this set of conditions should not become an obstacle to the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in tenders for contracts with public authorities. i think it should be borne in mind that the current process of change should not address other issues such as the liberalisation of public services or the privatisation of the providers of these services. last but not least, the amendment of the provisions on public procurement should also take into account national rules governing social security.
in writing. − at international level, public procurement represents a significant percentage of world trade: the public procurement sector accounts for between 15 and 20% of gdp in developed countries. at multilateral level, the reference normative act is the international agreement on government procurement, which has recently undergone a review process completed in march 2012. this review was completed in order to increase the transparency and openness of international procurement markets and to simplify procedures. i believe that there is a need for a progressive opening up of international public procurement markets on the basis of a commonly accepted system of rules, based on reciprocity, fairness and compliance with international social, environmental and labour standards. the european union currently provides international operators with a significant degree of openness to its public procurement market, which is often not applied in the same way by other major international trading partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new european regulations on public procurement, which were adopted by parliament and will make it possible to obtain a better value for money when awarding works, goods or services. public procurement accounts for around 18% of eu gdp, which is an important lever for economic growth and for achieving specific societal objectives. this new legislation revises the current rules on public procurement. the aim is to encourage fair competition and to allow for better value for money, with a focus on environmental and social considerations and innovation, which is a very positive development. this new legislation is of great importance as it also provides for stricter provisions on subcontracting and facilitates the submission of tenders by small and medium-sized enterprises. the introduction of a new criterion of 'most economically advantageous tender' in the award procedure will allow public authorities to place greater emphasis on quality, environmental and social aspects while taking into account the price and life cycle costs of the tender.
in writing. − in 2010, european public authorities spent eur 2 406 billion on public works, goods and services. given the financial windfall it represents, around 20 % of the european union budget, public procurement is particularly vulnerable to fraud and corruption practices and attractive to organised crime networks. i support the modernisation of the euʼs public procurement rules and the adoption of this directive. conflict of interest is an open door to corruption and distorts fair competition. therefore, i welcome that the new directive, through article 21, pays greater attention to fighting conflicts of interest in public procurement. in particular, minimum criteria have been introduced to establish which factors constitute conflict-of-interest situations. i believe, however, that we should have gone further by streamlining the process of sharing information about problematic economic operators by using technological solutions, and by focusing additionally on preventing and discouraging these conflicts of interest before they occur, as i proposed in my amendments to the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on public procurement, which adopts the european parliament's position at first reading. the award of public contracts by or on behalf of the authorities of the member states must respect the principles of the treaty on the functioning of the european union: free movement of goods, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, and the principles deriving therefrom, such as equal treatment, non-discrimination, mutual recognition, proportionality and transparency. according to the position adopted, the directive lays down rules applicable to the procurement procedures used by contracting authorities in connection with public procurement contracts and design contests the value of which is estimated to be at least equal to the following thresholds (excluding value added tax): eur 5 186 000 for public works contracts; eur 134 000 for public supply and service contracts awarded by central government authorities and design contests organised by those authorities; eur 207 000 for public supply and service contracts awarded by regional and local contracting authorities and design contests organised by those authorities; eur 750 000 for public service contracts for social and other specific services listed in annex xiv.
in writing. − the procedures governing these areas must take account of the european union's particular interest in supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, one of the engines of european development and competitiveness. equally, i believe it is important that any change at this level also reflects the rigors involved in the provision of services of public interest. i also support measures to increase the fairness of this decision-making process. the trust of european citizens in the union depends overwhelmingly on the commitment of the european institutions to increase the transparency of decision-making, especially in such a sensitive area as public procurement, to effectively combat corruption and to prevent fraud.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, which adopts the european parliament's position at first reading. in order to guarantee the opening to competition of procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, provisions should be laid down to coordinate procurement procedures for contracts exceeding a certain value. such coordination is necessary for the implementation of the principles of free movement of goods, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, and the principles deriving therefrom, such as equal treatment, non-discrimination, mutual recognition, proportionality and transparency. according to the position adopted, the directive lays down rules applicable to the procurement procedures used by contracting entities in relation to contracts and design contests the value of which is estimated to be at least equal to the following thresholds (estimated value excluding value added tax): eur 414 000 for supply and service contracts as well as design contests; eur 5 186 000 for works contracts; eur 1 000 000 for service contracts for social and other specific services listed in annex xvii.
in writing. − the european union has established itself as one of the world's leading promoters of the principle of free trade. through both its values and its concrete actions, the union has worked to integrate all states into the world economy by strongly supporting the progressive abolition of barriers to international trade. especially as the economic and financial crisis continues to affect european companies and citizens, public procurement, which represents a considerable part of community gdp, must be a driver for the development of competitiveness and innovation in the european economic sector. i believe that the proposal to exclude from the public procurement procedure unfair tenders involving goods and/or services from outside the eu is justified.
in writing. − the importance of ensuring access to goods and services in public procurement markets underpins this report. it is particularly desirable to ensure that tender procedures are transparent and that they allow the participation of several competitors operating in the relevant territory. the tendering procedure is a prerequisite for the implementation of development and growth policies, without which there can be no real exit from the crisis. i therefore thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have worked on this important dossier.
in writing. − the public procurement market is open to international competition, reflecting the union's commitment to free trade, while third countries do not offer reciprocal access to their markets. economic operators in the eu are thus faced with restrictive practices by some of the union's trading partners. moreover, there has been an increase in protectionist measures to the detriment of european companies. i support this report because i believe that the european union must urgently take action and put an end to these restrictive practices by adopting more aggressive negotiations. if third countries have access to the union's public procurement market, it would be appropriate for union economic operators to have access to the third country's public procurement market. restricting market access for third countries is not the desired solution, but if any form of negotiation fails, it can be used as a last resort. moreover, it is important that any measures taken by the union in this respect are applied uniformly at european level in order to prevent fragmentation of the internal market.
in writing. − i voted for the amendments adopted by the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation on access to goods and services from third countries on the union's internal market for public procurement and on procedures to support negotiations on access to union goods and services on third country public procurement markets. i voted for the union's trade policy to contribute to the reduction of global poverty by promoting improved working conditions, health and safety at work and fundamental rights. i voted in favour of the union defining and pursuing common policies and actions and acting to ensure a high level of cooperation in all areas of international relations in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on european union, with a view, inter alia, to protecting its values, fundamental interests, security, independence and integrity and to promoting the integration of all countries into the world economy, including through the progressive abolition of barriers to international trade. according to the adopted amendments, member states or their contracting authorities/entities may restrict access of goods and services from third countries to their procurement procedures only by means of measures provided for in this regulation or by relevant union legislation.
the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in respect of the granting of aid for the production of honey in accordance with article 108 (3) of the treaty. i supported this position by voting against encouraging the import of cheap, low-quality, mostly chinese honey. the countries of central and eastern europe, including romania, are so-called small producers. with the help of eu programmes, they have managed to consolidate their biomass production activities, which has been difficult but has been successful. they're making a huge effort to produce biomass. if we are forced to buy low-quality honey at the moment, we expect it to be labeled with precise proportions. european citizens have the right to know what they are consuming. it's not that pollen is a component or a constituent of honey. beekeeping in areas with genetically modified crops and the quality of honey is a real problem, because beekeeping in the european union could be endangered.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and against the committee's substantive position, taking into account, first of all, the interests of the many romanian beekeepers who need support, not the imposition of additional control measures. the tests imposed by the committee of the whole amendments would have been costly and would have disadvantaged european producers on international markets. last but not least, it would not have changed the current situation. in no case can it be claimed that pollen is an 'ingredient' and not a natural component of honey.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. i also voted to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution. i voted for amendment 17, which defines honey as a naturally sweet substance produced by bees. honey is essentially made up of various types of sugars, in particular fructose and glucose, and other substances such as organic acids, enzymes and solid particles resulting from the collection of honey. directive 2001/110/ec ensures the preservation of the natural characteristics of honey by limiting human intervention that could alter the composition of honey. in particular, that directive prohibits the addition of any food ingredient to honey, including food additives or any other additives other than honey. similarly, the directive prohibits the removal of any constituent element of honey, including pollen, unless this is unavoidable when removing impurities. these requirements are in accordance with the codex alimentarius standard for honey. i also voted for amendments nos 18, 19 and 20, which stress that pollen should not be considered as an ingredient. pollen, being a natural component specific to honey, is not considered an ingredient within the meaning of article 2 (2) (f) of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of the products defined in annex 1 to this directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the hercule iii programme to promote activities in the field of the protection of the financial interests of the european union. the multiannual action programme to promote activities to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union hercule iii is hereby established for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the general objective of the programme is to protect the financial interests of the union, thereby enhancing the competitiveness of the union economy and ensuring the protection of taxpayers' money. the financial envelope for the implementation of the programme for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020 shall be eur 104 918 000 (in current prices). the european parliament and the council shall authorise the annual appropriations available within the limits laid down in the multiannual financial framework . in order to ensure a certain flexibility in the allocation of funds, the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union should be delegated to the commission in respect of amending the indicative allocation of those funds. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on community statistics of trade in goods between member states as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, the communication of information by the customs administration, the exchange of confidential data between member states and the definition of the statistical value. in the context of the economic situation of the member states and the strengthening of coordination measures at union level, an integrated approach and increasingly reliable statistical indicators need to be developed so that policies can be implemented more effectively. the communication of data by national authorities should be free of charge for member states and union institutions or agencies. the security of the methods of transmission of sensitive statistical data, including economic data, should also be strengthened. i voted for amendment no 23, which states that member states should be allowed to exchange confidential data on intra-eu trade statistics in order to increase the efficiency of developing, producing and disseminating statistics or to improve their quality. exchanges of confidential data could also be allowed in exceptional cases and in accordance with regulation (ec) no 223/2009 in order to facilitate the work of the tax administration.
in writing. − i believe that member states and the commission must support the efforts of key countries to carry out work across all ministries to develop and implement demand reduction campaigns based on sound research and to ensure adequate long-term investment in the implementation of these strategies for the real recovery and conservation of wildlife populations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which is important given that poaching is an out-of-control phenomenon in many european countries, including romania. in one county in romania, in just four years, 17 bears were freed by forest managers from improvised traps set by poachers. illegal fishing is also a matter of concern, especially for rare, protected species. poaching and illegal fishing are not boundaries, and therefore measures are needed at the level of all member states.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on wildlife crime. wildlife-related crime, including poaching, illegal harvesting, the transit of illegal wildlife products and derived products and the illegal sale and use of these products in consumer countries, is currently a major transnational organised crime activity. i voted in favour of the creation of a specialised wildlife crime unit within europol, with full transnational competences and responsibilities, sufficient and competent human resources and adequate funding. we call for the link between member states' local control bodies and international ones to be optimized and stimulated, with a view to improving the exchange of information and thus increasing the level and efficiency of the local controllers' operations. we urge the commission and the council to include the fight against wildlife crime as a priority in the programming of financial instruments for development assistance, both in thematic and regional programming. we call on the commission and the member states to set up a trust fund or similar mechanism under article 187 of the revised financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union, with the aim of ensuring the protection of protected areas and combating wildlife trafficking and poaching, as part of an action plan against wildlife trafficking.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome the delegation from korea, a country with which we share the same struggles for freedom and a country with which the european union is seeking to further deepen its relations. i would first of all like to thank the european parliament for putting this very important matter on the agenda of this sitting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had intensive discussions in the council on the subject of free movement and i should like to inform you of the main points that have emerged from our recent discussions. first, the overwhelming majority of member states fully support the free movement of persons and consider that this right should be preserved and promoted. the free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union and is at the heart of the european integration process. it is also one of the aspects which clearly benefits our citizens. secondly, the majority of member states do not want any confusion between the concepts of 'freedom of movement', 'mobility', 'migration' and 'migrants from other countries of the european union'. under european union law, its citizens should not be treated in the same way as migrants from third countries in the context of free movement. there can be no doubt as to the legal distinction between the different status and scale of entitlements. the right of citizens of the european union to move and settle within the european union, whether for economic or other purposes, is fundamentally different from the possibilities available to nationals of third countries who are subject to immigration rules. thirdly, everyone agrees that while freedom of movement is a right, it also entails certain duties and obligations. in this context, the council has examined allegations of abuse of the rights of free movement. the european commission, under mandate from the council, conducted an evidence-based inquiry which included data collection from the member states themselves. the results were interesting and important in the context of today's debate. the information gathered and assessed by the european commission suggests that european union citizens move primarily for the purpose of working, rather than for the purpose of obtaining social benefits in other member states. in fact, they are less likely to be unemployed than citizens of the host country, so they actively contribute to the host country's economic development. of course, no one can say that there are no abuses of the system. there are always isolated cases of abuse, either by the nationals of the member states themselves, by nationals of other member states or by nationals of third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. there is a legal framework, there are specific safeguards, which enable the member states to take the necessary measures to deal with such cases of abuse. however, the treaty does not allow for additional pan-european measures, restrictions on nationals of certain member states, quotas for european union nationals, arbitrary expulsions or other similar measures of discriminatory treatment. i would like to be absolutely clear on this point. a very large number of member states, together with the commission, agree that the issue is not a matter of european law or a matter of action at european level, but rather how european legislation is applied at local level. this could include measures to deal with specific situations. the recent european commission communication on the free movement of persons presents a number of possible actions that can be implemented at national level. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are closely following the attacks and the negative publicity surrounding the principle of free movement. we believe that especially today, when we are experiencing a rise in populism and xenophobia, public positions should be based on real facts and not on dangerous generalizations or stereotypes. the free movement of persons is one of the most important benefits of the european integration process. this is a priceless asset which we must preserve now and for future generations, and i assure you that the presidency is committed to ensuring that this happens.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, today is a timely debate, because in recent weeks much has been said and written on this subject. that is why it is a debate in which institutions need to make their voices heard very clearly. the commission believes that we must again and again state clearly that all eu citizens are entitled to free movement – without exception. they enjoy the right to free movement as a direct consequence of being european citizens and of their member state being a member of the european union. free movement is one of those basic rights citizens enjoy. if you look at our eurobarometer, it is also the right which they cherish most. i would like to make it very clear: it is a right which is not up for negotiation. free movement gives the citizens the right to live, work and study anywhere in the union: an important right which over 14 million citizens utilise. they reside in another member state on a stable basis. there is also a very strong economic case for free movement, because it not only benefits those who move, it also benefits the economies to which they move and the economies from which they have moved. the gdp of the eu-15 is estimated to have increased by almost 1 % in the long term as a result of the free movement after the 2004 enlargement. the data – which is provided by the member states – shows that the main motivation for eu citizens to move to another member state is for work. of all citizens residing in another eu country in 2012, more than three quarters – 78% – were of working age as compared to 66 % among nationals. the overall employment rate of mobile eu workers – 68 % – is higher than that of the non-mobile citizens – 65 %. also, and this is very important, mobile eu citizens tend to be net contributors to the costs of the public services they use in the host country. as a matter of fact, those who are not in employment represent a very limited share of the total number of mobile citizens. they are therefore unlikely to represent a real burden on the welfare systems of host countries. now, we have heard very clearly the concern which has been raised by some member states, that free movement has been abused on their territories, causing difficult social situations in certain localities. the commission has listened to those member states and it has gathered data – provided by those member states – to better grasp the dimension of the problem. to present its findings, the commission adopted in november a communication on the free movement of citizens and their families which provides facts and figures, clarifies the rights and obligations and explains the conditions and limitations offered by the eu rules on free movement. to make it very clear: the current rules on free movement, including access to social benefits, contain sufficient safeguards to prevent eu citizens becoming an unreasonable burden on the host country. having said that, we would also like to say clearly that we stand ready to help the member states in their efforts to fight fraud and abuse. while those seem to occur only on a small scale, they must nevertheless be taken very seriously, because abuse – or the feeling that there is abuse – destroys free movement. that is why the commission, with a five-point action plan, proposed to give a helping hand to the member states when implementing the right to free movement on their territories. the member states and the eu here share the responsibility to make these rules work and to uphold them for the benefit of the citizens, of growth and of employment. this also includes countering public perceptions which are not based on facts and economic realities. in exercising this responsibility, national authorities can count on the support of the commission. please rest assured that the commission is ready to uphold eu law. this is our duty as guardian of the treaties: we will ensure that any measure adopted in any member state is fully compliant with eu law. i know from experience that i can count on the strong support of the european parliament when it comes to these questions. our citizens also know that they can count on us, and that is what we have to deliver. (applause)
member of the commission. − mr president, the free movement of workers is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union and the cornerstone of the eu single market. the free movement of workers benefits individual workers by giving them access to a greater range of job opportunities and experience, and it also benefits the economies and welfare systems of the host countries. in order to ensure that eu workers are better able to exercise their right to free movement in practice, the eu treaty also includes rules to ensure that they do not face discrimination in terms of access to jobs or working conditions. these rules include the coordination of social security, as it is necessary to treat workers from other member states and national workers equally in terms of other social benefits and tax advantages. the eu also offers help to people who are interested in working in another member state through the european employment services (eures) job search network, for example. we will make a proposal to upgrade this later this week. the free movement of workers has been subject to transitional measures in five out of seven enlargements. on 1 january 2014, the transitional measures concerning the freedom of movement for romanian and bulgarian workers ended. those nine member states which were still applying restrictions in 2013 have now lifted them. the commission is monitoring this process to ensure that rights are not violated and that all questions receive an answer. fairness – and the perception of fairness – is important. concerns have nevertheless been expressed, even by some members of this parliament, about the risk that increased flows of people would put an excessive burden on the social security systems of some member states. but the evidence shows that people actually go where they find jobs and not benefits. this is confirmed by a recent report published by the commission, as well as by previous experience. because eu migrants are more likely to be economically active than nationals of the host member states and less likely to claim social benefits, they are net contributors to the host country welfare system in the vast majority of the member states. in this context, let me express my satisfaction for the agreement reached at trialogue level concerning the proposal for a directive on measures facilitating the exercise of the right of free movement of workers. this directive is aimed at ensuring better national enforcement of the eu rules in the field of free movement of workers. it provides for the existence of at least one body in every member state to provide assistance and information to eu workers and their family members on their eu rights. thanks to amendments proposed by the parliament, it will also be empowered to liaise and cooperate with similar bodies in other countries. i am confident that the adoption of the directive will lead to all-round better support concerning the rights of migrant eu workers. vice-president reding recalled the communication on free movement of eu citizens and their families which the commission adopted last year. amongst the five actions foreseen by the communication, one concerned the publication of a practical guide on the habitual residence test. this guide was published on monday, 13 january 2014 and will help member states to apply eu rules on the coordination of social security and to safeguard against abuse. the guide was jointly drafted by representatives from member states and the european commission. there are clear safeguards in eu law to prevent people from abusing the social welfare systems of other eu countries, and this guide will make it easier for national and local authorities to apply the habitual residence safeguards in practice, with the objective of facilitating the free movement of people throughout the european union. it is also useful to recall that no member state has provided any evidence of widespread or systematic abuse of social welfare by people from other eu countries.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, freedom of movement is a fundamental principle of the european union. there can be no single market without the free movement of labour. workers are hired because employers need them. european citizens have the same obligations, but also the same rights. deficiencies in national administrations or unfavourable economic results cannot be covered by the freedom of movement. this debate is being driven by populist politicians and others who think they'll win more votes if they become populist. the confusion between free movement and access to social systems must be removed. i'm not asking for a fundamental right to be limited, and i'm not blaming people because a very small number of beneficiaries are breaking the law. whoever makes a mistake, pays for it. i think it's time that ridiculous debate in the uk stopped, as it has in other member states, where their own statistics show that they're soon out of work and that without migration, the economy is collapsing. governments should be more concerned about creating jobs for their own citizens. if we want more order in our social systems, then we must accept more integration. we must tell the truth, not stories, and we must continue to uphold european principles.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would very much like this to be the last time we discuss freedom of movement within the european union in this parliament. not because it is not a very important subject, but because it is unacceptable that this fundamental right should be challenged. i would like all the assessments and recommendations that we meps make in resolutions to be respected by the other european institutions as well as by the governments of the member states. i would like european politicians, from prime minister david cameron to interior minister manuel valls to mep elmar brok, to behave responsibly and stop feeding intolerance and xenophobia with their speeches. i would very much like, for example, that my romanian compatriots who live, study and work in the uk, germany, italy or the netherlands are no longer the target of unfounded and populist press campaigns or political campaigns, because all studies show that labour migration has contributed and is contributing to the welfare of the member state in which it takes place. i would very much like to see us no longer having to demonstrate endlessly the obvious and to live normally with each other, wherever we want to settle within the union, as it was intended and as this european construction must remain. but as there will always be extremist politicians, or just populists and opportunists, who want to limit fundamental freedoms and rights, we will have to continue our common fight against any restrictions on free movement and to ensure that all european citizens, regardless of their country of origin, are treated equally and have non-discriminatory access to the labour market, anywhere in the union.
mr. president, i understand from mr. brok that we may no longer need to print. we, the social democratic delegation from the european parliament, were ready to go over to his office to leave our fingerprints. if we need to, he knows where to find us. regarding the statements by mr farage and the others from ukip, there are a lot of studies, i don't know which to cite: studies done in the uk, in romania, in bulgaria, by the european commission, which show the contribution of those who go from romania and bulgaria and work in the uk; the fact that there is more money that they give there than they take from the uk; the contribution they bring to the growth of gross domestic product in the uk (the british business people themselves say this). so the anti-european delusion of ukip has only logical counter-arguments to answer, but it doesn't matter, because behind this anti-european delusion is the incompetence and irresponsibility of the politicians in the uk, who fail to bring solutions for their fellow citizens. i mean that we have an obligation in the european parliament, because it is the only institution directly elected by european citizens, to take a stand when a single european citizen is insulted and humiliated from this podium. when millions of european citizens, romanians, bulgarians, poles, are insulted and humiliated from this tribune, we have an even greater obligation to take a stand and sanction such statements. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. the translation was very bad and i couldn't understand the question very well. as for (what i managed to understand) the danger of immigrants or invasions, it was not very clear to me.... i didn't understand the question because of the translation, i apologize. i should be making assumptions and wasting time.
mr. president, i wish to express my regret and outrage that romanians and bulgarians are the targets of an aggressive smear campaign. the stakes are clear, with the european elections and, as in the case of the uk, the forthcoming national elections. beyond the xenophobic rhetoric, i would like to note that the migration of romanians to the member states confirms that free movement is a pillar of the european union, both as an essential right of citizens and as an economic reality. nine out of ten romanians living in germany are working legally and contributing to the social system. in the uk, only 1.4% of the 120,000 romanian immigrants receive social assistance, as opposed to the national average rate, with 9.5% of the british population receiving state aid. that is why, mr president, i believe it is the duty of all democratic and pro-european forces to combat the incorrect attempt to turn romanians into service-guilty for the inability of some national governments to provide viable anti-crisis solutions.
in writing. today's debate is extremely important for the future of the eu itself. i believe that the statements by the european commission and the council which are the subject of this debate correctly address the issue of the mobility of european citizens, because this means, in practice, for the most part, free movement within the eu. mobility generates added value, is a factor of economic growth and is appreciated as such in most of europe. recently, the times reported that there are about 5,000 vacancies on romanian job sites in 2014 alone, compared to 60,000 vacancies in the uk in 2013. at the same time, however, i believe it is extremely important to make a clear distinction between mobility and migration within the eu, which is why i appreciate the ec's answer to my question on the need for this distinction. this is not a formal one, but concerns entirely different situations, in substance. today in the ep plenary we talked about immigrants in general, about legal and illegal immigration, which should be fought. but european citizens cannot be subject to these rules, which is why it is necessary to clarify the two concepts, including terminology. ambiguity about this legal difference between european citizenship and immigrant status and between different sets of rights and treatment can lead to additional tensions in the european space.
in writing. romanian citizens face a systematic and unfair campaign of stigmatisation. their only fault is that, as of 1 january, they are full european citizens with the removal of restrictions on the labour market. for populist-electoral reasons, many untruths are conveyed, ignoring the evidence. immigrants are not a burden but an economic aid to the host countries. the specialised studies also estimate that romanians will not compete with the population of the uk and other member states for jobs. on the contrary, it is complementarity in the labour market, not substitution. given their average age and experience so far, romanians will not represent an additional pressure on social systems - not even the british one, however much the demagogic thesis of 'social tourism' may be stirred up. romanian emigrants leave their country to work, not for social benefits that can only be accessed under restrictive conditions, especially in the uk. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to an unfairly ignored reality: british and german statistics indicate a shift in the axes of migration, with countries on the southern flank of the eu providing 50% more immigrants in the last year than before.
in writing. the agitation unleashed in some eu member states over the so-called flood of romanians and bulgarians since 1 january 2014 has proved to be unfounded. undoubtedly populist, extremist politicians have tried to manipulate people without having facts, on mere assumptions. unfortunately, such distortions in the political world are quite common. but it is unacceptable that the government of a member state, and the government of the united kingdom, should stop publishing a government report on immigration, simply because reality does not justify the general unrest that was unleashed in that country before 1 january 2014.
in writing. the right to free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. under the treaty of accession of romania and bulgaria, member states could introduce restrictions on the free movement of workers for a maximum of 7 years from the date of accession of those two states. in the period 2007-2013, some member states introduced such restrictions for romanian and bulgarian workers, while others decided as of 1 january 2007 not to apply any restrictions or gradually abandoned them. today, it is unanimously accepted that romanian workers have participated in the economic and social growth of the states in which they have resided and worked. i have been campaigning since 1 january 2007 for the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. i believe that removing these barriers ensures equal working conditions and eliminates social dumping, thereby protecting migrant workers and native workers alike. we therefore call on member states to refrain from introducing any discriminatory measures against migrant workers on the grounds of populism. the european union is founded on the principle of equal treatment of all its citizens, a fundamental principle for the trust contract between the union and its citizens.
ladies and gentlemen, i am still thinking about how to explain to my fellow romanians that while we are kept outside the schengen area, although we fulfil the criteria for membership, a citizen from outside the union, if he has money, can buy maltese citizenship, that is, european citizenship and all the benefits that flow from it. i don't know how to explain it to them, because that's unacceptable. some european political leaders, instead of speaking out against the maltese trade in european citizenship, tried to distract attention by referring to the granting of romanian citizenship to citizens of the republic of moldova. it's probably easier for them to forget the tragic historical decisions and blame the restoration of a lost right, even though other countries have done the same. it is not romania and moldova that are the problem, but the trade in european citizenship, because it seriously affects one of the most important values of the union.
i want to express my disapproval of the maltese law, which offers the possibility for non-eu citizens to obtain citizenship in exchange for a sum of money. i am a citizen of a member state who has been waiting for years to be admitted to schengen, and this is not happening, although all the accession criteria have been met, as both the european commission and the parliament have found. so 30 million european citizens, romanians and bulgarians, cannot travel without border controls, but any russian, chinese or papuans, whether gangster or oligarch, will be able to do so unhindered, if they have a proper bank account. this seems to me downright revolting and unfair.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am also speaking on behalf of viviane reding, who had to leave unexpectedly early, when i thank you for your contributions to this debate. your contributions highlight the growing importance of these questions in the european union, in which national decisions are in many instances no longer neutral vis-à-vis other member states and the european union as a whole. european union citizenship implies a stakeholding with the union and depends on a person’s ties with europe and its member states. talking about the member states, you know that my area of responsibility is enlargement and neighbourhood. i have to confess that in the area of enlargement i have already faced the issue whereby a candidate country was about to adopt a similar arrangement. my line at that time was very clear – firstly, the issue of the responsibility of the member states once you become one, and secondly, the need for awareness that such a decision has a clear european union dimension and that this issue needs to be addressed in the spirit of the values of the european union. we have taken on board what was said here today and what has been expressed in european parliament resolutions. we will continue to be attentive to this issue. listening to this debate, on behalf of viviane reding i would like to confirm that the european commission will offer its assistance in addressing this important issue within the treaties in a debate in which we will address the differences between citizenship on one hand and the residence permit on the other, a debate which will in no way question the prerogative of member states or dilute member state sovereignty.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the members for this interesting debate. i have taken good note of the concerns and strong feelings expressed on this issue and, as i said in my opening remarks, i will certainly ensure that the council is fully informed of your concerns. however, as i also said at the outset, the council has not discussed the specific issue which is the subject of this debate and has certainly not developed a standpoint on it, for the reasons which i have already explained. it is up to the member states individually to lay down their own rules governing nationality. there is no harmonisation of national legislation in this area. however, the member states must ensure that their domestic legislation fully respects eu law. if there is any suggestion that this is not the case, that is a matter for the commission, which is the institution responsible for ensuring respect for eu legislation.
in writing. citizenship is not a commodity that can be bought or sold, it is the relationship that a person has with the state and other citizens. however, the granting of the nationality of a member state also means the granting of european citizenship with all the rights attached to it, rights which are recognised and can be exercised in all the member states of the union. the sale of citizenship is an undemocratic, unfair process that creates inequalities and inequities. citizenship should only be granted where there is a genuine link between the citizen concerned and the state whose citizen he wishes to become. to obtain citizenship of a state, there must be a root and an identity, otherwise the sovereignty of that state is diluted. i wish to express my concern about the maltese citizenship sale law, the maltese government's draft legislation being unacceptable and undemocratic! i am also deeply disappointed by the recent example of one of europe's political leaders. the romanian delegation of the european people's party strongly rejects these claims. romania does not sell romanian citizenship to anyone. the overwhelming majority of cases in which romania has granted citizenship to moldovans are cases of regaining citizenship by people who lost it for reasons beyond their control!
mr president, i too believe that the european vocation of the western balkan states is well defined and that the progress and stability of the area demonstrate this. but i believe in particular in the european vocation of two states, serbia and macedonia. i believe that these two countries should join the european union as soon as possible and i also believe that the greek presidency will be a great success, giving macedonia the opportunity to start on its european path. it would be the greatest success that a presidency could have and i think greece cannot miss such an event. i would like to respond to the recognition of the state of kosovo by five states, including my own country. we do not believe in the viability of this state, and if we have heard speeches tonight about national minorities in other states, let me fear that such speeches will be more and more present in a europe that is preparing for elections and in a europe where a certain kind of revenge speech, which does not take into account the ethnic balance in certain spaces, can take on an increasingly aggressive character. there are two motivations that have made us only welcome the progress of kosovo, but not recognize this country.
we are very pleased that accession negotiations with serbia can now begin and we hope that in a few years' time, after successful legal harmonisation, we will have another member of our community. however, the path to eu membership also presents a number of challenges for the serbian authorities and the european commission. i would like to draw the attention of those directly concerned in the negotiations to the experience of the accession of romania and bulgaria. it is now clear that these two countries were not fully prepared for accession, and the consequences of this have been felt ever since. the romanian judicial system has been under eu monitoring since 2007 and the commission reports have not yet envisaged the mechanism being abolished. that was one of the costs of joining at the time. today, however, many feel that if these problems had been resolved in the negotiations, they might have been resolved sooner and monitoring would not have been necessary although accession would have been postponed by a year or two. i would therefore like to stress that, in my view, it is in the interest of the people of serbia, serbs, hungarians, roma, bosniaks, croats and other minorities that exhaustive negotiations be conducted, that the problems be honestly listed and that accession not take place before the implementation of reassuring solutions.
in writing. i welcome serbia's progress towards european integration and its efforts to comply with the copenhagen criteria and the conditionality of the association process. following the opening of accession negotiations in 2013, serbia should continue reforms in priority areas such as the rule of law, in particular judicial reform and anti-corruption policy, the independence of state institutions, media freedom, anti-discrimination policy, protection of minorities and the business environment. it is equally important that serbia maintains its commitment to regional cooperation and reconciliation. these reforms can be facilitated by pre-accession financial assistance, with a clear focus on a few sectors vital to the functioning of the rule of law and the development of the private sector. i encourage serbia to make full use of this money, citing the example of my country, romania, where the phare, sapard, ispa grants have paved the way for eu accession. it is also important for serbia to use cross-border cooperation to benefit from the european experience of local and regional authorities in neighbouring countries. at the official level, romania has declared its support for serbia's eu accession, given that there has been clear progress in human rights and the protection of minorities, criteria which are also valid for the other states in the region.
, in writing. i welcome the report on kosovo's integration process and the positive developments since the last discussion on this issue. i consider the results of the albanian-serbian reconciliation process to date to be particularly important and share the view that the kosovo authorities must take further steps to involve the serbian minority, to promote their social integration, the use of their mother tongue, bilingual education and the participation of serbs in kosovo's political life. i am pleased to note that the report encourages the five member states which have not yet done so to recognise kosovo. the eu itself must make efforts to achieve the goal of stabilising the balkans. the recent history of europe has shown that the accession criteria, and in particular the conditions for the protection of national minorities, are not sufficient, since the country that becomes a member of the eu after accession is no longer obliged to deal meaningfully with the situation of national minorities. the appropriate solution would be to create a legal framework for national minorities at eu level, which would provide a reassuring framework for the situation of ethnic minorities throughout the eu and increase the stability of regions and states. until a european minority standard is established, the eu will continue to have a double standard. the so-called copenhagen dilemma must be resolved. in the area of national minority protection, member states must meet the same policy criteria that the eu has already required of candidate countries.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the council, i welcome this opportunity to discuss the progress report on iceland and, in particular, to review together the accession negotiations with iceland. i am aware of the strong support which parliament has traditionally given to enlargement and i particularly appreciate the active commitment and constructive contribution of its members, especially to the accession process of iceland. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on 17 december 2013, the council referred to the advanced stage of the accession negotiations with iceland and took note of the decision of the icelandic government to suspend the talks. the council also stressed its view that iceland's accession was a matter of mutual benefit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession process is completed in time for the accession negotiations. although the icelandic government has decided to suspend the negotiations, i think it would be useful to recall the progress that has already been made so far. we have almost completed the comparison procedure, we have already dealt with all the comparison reports with the exception of 'fisheries', and as far as the negotiations themselves are concerned, 27 of the 35 total chapters have been opened and 11 of them have been provisionally closed. i believe that this highlights and recalls iceland's advanced position as a candidate country, but negotiations on some sensitive chapters, notably those on fisheries and agriculture, have not started. also, the talks on the 'environment' chapter, which opened in december 2012, did not look very easy at first. despite the considerable progress, it is clear that a significant amount of work still remains if negotiations are reopened. the decision of the icelandic government to suspend the negotiations has of course direct implications for the work of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but it is also a political union. we continue to believe that with good will and political determination we could achieve satisfactory results in the negotiations if iceland decides to go ahead. in the meantime, we will continue to work closely with iceland on a wide range of issues of mutual interest. i would like to conclude by praising the work of this parliament and in particular of your rapporteur, christian dan preda, whose continuing commitment and support have made a significant contribution to the efforts to advance the accession process of iceland. i can assure you that we have taken account of the various points in the report and i look forward to hearing your views on this report. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it is a pleasure for me to contribute to your debate on the 2012 progress report on iceland and the post-election perspectives. let me first of all congratulate the rapporteur, mr preda, for his high quality report, which is to the point and well balanced. it also delivers an important message to iceland, which cannot be repeated often enough: the european union remains fully committed to continuing and completing the accession negotiation process if iceland wishes to do so. the commission acknowledges the icelandic government’s decision to put the accession negotiations on hold. that message was communicated by me, as well as by presidents barroso and van rompuy, in meetings with the icelandic foreign minister and prime minister last summer. in october, as part of its 2013 enlargement package, the commission produced a short factual report on iceland. this was not a standard ‘progress report’ like those of previous years. it summarised levels of alignment with the acquis in iceland, chapter-by-chapter, without providing any forward-looking recommendations. in the report, as well as in the overall strategy paper, the commission concluded that iceland had reached an advanced stage of the accession negotiations – with, as has been said, 27 chapters opened and 11 provisionally closed – when they were put on hold. we noted that iceland remained and still remains an important partner for the european union, in particular in the light of its membership of the european economic area and its participation in the schengen area. we have taken note of the fact that the icelandic government has commissioned a study on the state of play of the accession negotiations and developments in the european union, which will be presented to the icelandic parliament for discussion early this year. allow me to conclude with two remarks regarding the accession-related funds which iceland has been receiving through the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). firstly, following careful assessment and in line with sound financial management, we concluded that all ongoing ipa projects should be discontinued. it is not possible to justify using european union taxpayers’ funds, the purpose of which is to support pre-accession, when the icelandic government itself has called a halt to the process. additionally, the commission will not sign any new commitments under our current ipa i instrument. secondly, with regard to the new instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii), which covers the years 2014-2020, the commission, in agreement with the icelandic government, has suspended preparatory work for iceland under this framework.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mr füle for the cooperation i have had over the years as parliament's rapporteur for iceland. i would remind you that iceland applied for membership of the union immediately after this parliament began its current term of office, and now, towards the end of the term of office (a few months to go), we are in a situation where the negotiations are stalled, this in the circumstances where, throughout the negotiations, the progress has been very good and, here in parliament, we have underlined it every time. in other words, we are not dealing with a country that has caused problems, but with a country that, before the election campaign last year, decided to slow down the negotiations so that, immediately after the elections in april, the new government would decide to stop them. now the question that is asked about the union in iceland is: what is this union, how has it evolved in recent years and, on the other hand, what is happening to iceland in the light of this evolution? two studies are being commissioned which will then be discussed in parliament and, on the other hand, there is discussion about the appropriateness of a referendum and the date of a referendum. there are two camps. some who would like to hold a referendum, so that accession negotiations continue, because there is a majority of citizens who want to continue these negotiations. there is another majority, which wants something else, and that is to support a government that is not proposing a referendum on membership, asking icelanders to say yes or no. here we are, and we probably won't hear anything from reykjavik on this subject for a long time.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate my colleague, mr cristi preda, on a very concise and balanced report. i would also like to join those who regret the government's decision to suspend the accession negotiations. i do not think that the solution chosen is the best one and, in my opinion, it would have been preferable to hold a referendum only after the negotiations had been concluded. i would also like to see a serious information campaign before the public consultation. the icelandic citizens should be very well aware of all the benefits of membership of the european union, especially as they already enjoy some of them. the european commission should therefore be actively involved in informing the public. i hope, however, that iceland will continue on the path to the union because, after all, it shares common values with the member states. last but not least, i also support the european commission's decision to no longer grant pre-accession funds to the country, in the context of discussions on european integration being blocked by the national authorities. perhaps this will make the government realise the importance of european funds for economic growth and thus be more open to resuming negotiations.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, first of all, let me start by saying that we are very saddened by reports of a ferry accident in which over 200 civilians – many of them women and children – may have lost their lives while fleeing the violence in malakal, south sudan. our thoughts are with the families and friends of the victims. this tragic incident adds to the human toll that the current conflict has already inflicted on the south sudanese people. the european union is particularly preoccupied by the deterioration of the humanitarian situation and reports of large-scale human rights violations. according to the latest estimates, 10 000 people have been killed and more than 400 000 are now internally displaced in south sudan, while close to 50 000 people have fled the country. beyond the extensive suffering of the south sudanese people, this crisis threatens to affect a much wider region, one that is already prone to instability, conflict and poverty. what happens in south sudan is of great importance to the european union. we remain strongly committed to supporting regional and international efforts to end the violence, and we continue to call for a politically-negotiated solution that will allow south sudan’s leaders to resolve their differences peacefully and democratically. together with the international community, the european union is engaged in preventing the crisis from descending into an ethnically-based civil war and chaos. we have pledged our firm support to the mediation by igad (the intergovernmental authority on development) to achieve an immediate ceasefire and lay the groundwork for a broad-based, sustainable and democratic political solution. in this respect, i would like to commend here the report prepared by ms de keyser, adopted in december last year, which highlighted the challenges of the development of state-building in south sudan. we commend igad’s work in sparing absolutely no effort in mediating between the south sudanese protagonists, and we encourage all regional efforts to achieve a solution before it is already too late, in order to prevent all-out civil war. high representative/vice-president ashton has welcomed the opening of south sudanese peace talks and has appealed for a rapid agreement on a ceasefire and humanitarian access. the use of force will achieve nothing. recent history teaches us that much. high representative/vice-president ashton has stressed that an immediate ceasefire with effective monitoring must be agreed as quickly as possible in order to spare the people of south sudan any further suffering. we hope that this can materialise swiftly and that a credible ceasefire can be signed soon, as a recent statement by president salva kiir’s spokesperson suggests. high representative/vice-president ashton has urged the parties to create conditions for an inclusive political dialogue, one that includes the release of all political leaders currently detained in juba. she has also called on both parties to abstain from public statements that might incite their followers to further violence. let me be clear. all those who incite people to violence are effectively delaying the achievement of a ceasefire, obstructing the political process – in particular the mediation efforts of igad – and halting a political settlement of the conflict. those actors should be well aware of the consequences of their actions. the european union has engaged in a determined diplomatic effort to help bring an end to the fighting. the eu special representative for the horn of africa, alexander rondos, has been in the region since 25 december, working round the clock to get a peace process underway. he is in constant contact with key actors in south sudan and the region to support the building of consensus around igad’s mediation efforts. the eu has offered to support that process in both political and financial terms. it is important that we all remain united behind igad’s work and give this process a chance. we are extremely concerned by reports of human rights abuses. all parties need to be aware that perpetrators of systematic and targeted abuses of human rights will be held accountable for their actions. the protection of civilians must be respected. we welcome the african union’s decision to establish a commission to investigate human rights violations committed starting from 15 december 2013 as well as the root causes and triggering factors that led to violence. the eu urges this commission to begin its work as soon as possible. we also support the ongoing strengthening of the united nations mission in sudan so that it can fulfil its mandate to protect civilians. the eu delegation and the office of the humanitarian aid and civil protection department of the commission (echo) have remained open throughout the crisis, and we have supported member states in their efforts to evacuate their citizens and coordinated the evacuation of citizens of member states not represented in juba. the eu continues to provide life-saving humanitarian assistance to those in need. as early as 23 december, commissioner georgieva announced the availability of eur 50 million for humanitarian action to cover basic needs with regard to food, healthcare, clean water, sanitation, shelter protection, etc. to date the european union and its member states have provided around eur 170 million in humanitarian assistance in 2013 and 2014. let me conclude by reiterating that beyond the many lives that are lost or shattered in this crisis, the situation in south sudan threatens to spill over and further destabilise the wider region. such a situation can, and must, be avoided. it is the responsibility of all world leaders to ensure that this does not happen. an immediate commitment to halting hostilities and dialogue is essential and, above all, very urgent. the cost of abandoning this road is too high a price for the people of south sudan to pay. let us not forget that these are people who fought so valiantly for their freedom. it is important that we all remain united behind igad’s efforts and give this process a chance. the european union stands ready to spare no effort to that end.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, at the december 2013 session, our parliament will vote, i remind you, on the report by mrs de keyser on the international community's efforts on south sudan. unfortunately, just a few days later, armed clashes between government forces and rebels allied to former vice president riek machar broke out, and since then, there have been disastrous humanitarian consequences. in the discussions in the committee on development, we have repeatedly addressed the political instability in this country. but i have to confess that i never imagined that it would come to the situation that it is now, including the risk of seeing south sudan divided into a 'north south sudan' and a 'south south sudan'. the number of dead, on the other hand, from the hostilities that have begun, is increasing by the hour. we have had many serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in recent weeks, and therefore i think we should welcome any positive sign that emerges from this region. the council representative stressed and i was pleased that it was a very good initiative by the african union to establish a commission of inquiry. on the other hand, politically, both president salva kiir and riek machar have a responsibility to prevent abuses against civilians. it is clear to me that the only way out of the current situation is through a rapid cessation of hostilities and the resumption of comprehensive political dialogue. the union must continue to support south sudan and the start of a genuine process of national reconciliation.
madam president, the situation in south sudan risks destabilizing the entire region. two and a half years after gaining independence, the country's fragile institutions are being weighed down by battles over control of oil fields. i am concerned first of all that a very large number of civilians have been victims of the conflict between government forces and the rebels. we are already talking about over a thousand dead and several hundred thousand forcibly displaced people, and as the violence continues, the number of victims will increase. unfortunately, humanitarian aid cannot reach all those affected, due to the lack of security in the area. the first step is to stop fighting. that's why we need progress in the current negotiations between the rebels and the government of south sudan.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation agreement between the european union and mexico has brought significant trade benefits to both parties. between 1999, the year before the signing of the agreement, and 2012, union exports to mexico increased by 164%, and imports from mexico by 296%. as my colleagues have said, however, in the 14 years since the partnership came into force, the pattern of world trade has evolved. today, such agreements are more numerous and more ambitious. therefore, i welcome the decision of the two partners to modernise the commercial elements of the agreement. the review of eu-mexico trade relations should include both additional liberalisation and a mandatory clause to support sustainable development, with increased attention to human rights. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the financial services sector. i believe that cooperation between the european union and mexico would be positive in order to eliminate fraud, tax evasion and other illegal financial practices faced by the partners. at the same time, in view of the negotiations between the european union and mexico's north american neighbours, canada and the united states, i believe that it will be necessary to ensure coherence between the various free trade areas.
trade relations with the countries of central and south america are particularly important, especially in the context of economic growth in the region. both mexico and chile are reliable trading partners for the union. i therefore also believe that the current agreements can be modernised and extended to the benefit of both parties. whether we are talking about agriculture, services or access to public procurement procedures, i am convinced that we can take bilateral relations with our two countries to a higher level. in the case of romania, i can say that there are several industries that have very good export prospects in central and south america. i would like to mention in particular the home appliance industry, the car industry, through dacia, but also the petrochemical industry.
mr president, although industrialization has been neglected in recent times, i nevertheless supported this report, which makes a number of improvements, good but insufficient, in terms of the relaunch of industrialization in the european union. we all know that industrialisation directly contributes to the creation of new jobs. or, at the moment we are facing across the european union a lack of skills to find solutions for creating new jobs. moreover, industrialisation is highly dependent on european funding. here again, the maximum consideration is not given to how much could be used to industrialise, in particular, the newly joined countries of the european union and to create jobs. that is why i think the commission should come up with a much bolder approach, make concrete and binding proposals to each government at national level and at the same time have a strategy for monitoring and sanctioning governments that fail to implement such strategies.
in writing. − the economic crisis and rising production costs have hit european industry and led to job losses for many european citizens. reindustrialisation, in response to the problems identified, must be a priority at eu level. europe has the capacity to innovate and the know-how to develop high-performing industry, but it faces problems with production costs, especially those related to resources and energy. the european union needs a competitive industry characterised by innovation, energy efficiency and sustainability, and an appropriate legislative framework to support the continued growth of the industry. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the crisis has dealt a severe blow to european economies. it has affected the industrial sector, causing the loss of 3.8 million jobs. the crisis and lack of prospects are affecting social well-being and worsening poverty. to meet these challenges, i believe that the eu needs a comprehensive growth strategy. european industry is indispensable to solving the multitude of problems facing the eu. it provides jobs, goods and services, as well as tax revenues, and is a key player in europe's transition to a low-carbon economy. europe needs to make appropriate use of public funds, mobilise private sector funds for research and innovation activities and encourage transnational and transregional cooperation through innovative business groups, academia and research organisations. this cooperation should be accompanied by smart specialisation strategies that take into account the potential of each region and territory.
in writing. − i believe that at european level the commission must honour its commitment to develop indicators to monitor and evaluate the reindustrialisation process, and these indicators must be not only quantitative but also qualitative, to ensure that this process is sustainable and compatible with environmental protection.
in writing. − this report makes very clear what the economic crisis has shown us in a rather painful way, namely that an industrial base is absolutely indispensable if the eu is to ensure the prosperity of its citizens. the diagnosis is very clear: the european economy has in recent years focused far too much on services and has entered a process of deindustrialisation, due also to lack of competitiveness, but this process has dramatic effects on employment and the overall economic situation. the paradigm shift and the european commission's take-up of the industrial policy initiative so that we are seeing a 'rebirth of european industry' is real progress. the potential is there, all that is needed is a coherent strategy to support competitiveness while ensuring the sustainability of the european economy. it is therefore absolutely essential to support innovative sectors and new technologies that have significant growth potential. support for smes will be another key point, because they are the backbone of the european economy and they also bring the most innovation. such a strategy also requires investment, but a smart use of european funds through multiannual programmes such as horizon 2020 can already be one of the sources of funding.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s focus on industrial policy, as it is essential for economic development, and, taking into account the fact that industry creates one in four jobs, solving the problem of unemployment. the main objectives of this report should be to advocate a renaissance in industry, and innovation in the field, for a sustainable eu.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to deal with the financial and economic crisis and to give a new impetus to the economy, a strategy focused on reindustrialisation is needed. taking into account the different economic and social realities of the different member states and the global competitors of european industry, which have been developing sound industrial strategies for years, it is necessary to start a modernisation process which will strengthen the centres of innovation and eliminate the developmental lags. industrial policy must therefore find the right mix of strategies that combine competitiveness and sustainability in order to improve the framework, recreate productive capacity and generate jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability, as it is an important point of the european industrial strategy. the consolidation of european industry needs to be based on technological and financial innovation, while the social and ecological market economy can be supported by commercial innovation, with small and medium-sized enterprises contributing to the digitalisation of the internal market. i also believe that broadband services are key to industrial development and can contribute to economic growth and job creation, and that investments in the construction of a high-capacity broadband network should be a union priority. the commission can support the standardisation and interoperability of new technological products and services by encouraging cooperation at european level between companies, service providers and research centres, the participation of regions and the transfer of knowledge between the research communities in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability. industry is the largest value creator in the economy, creating approximately two additional jobs in the goods and services sectors for every one industrial job. i consider it particularly important that the 'industrial revival for a sustainable europe' (rise) strategy can revitalise industry and repatriate production to the eu, paying attention to supply chain management and taking into account specific local and regional production cultures and demand, while promoting important emerging sectors necessary for a sustainable economy and society. they claim that the rise strategy requires a short-term agenda to protect the production tool and know-how in order to respond to the urgent challenges (such as overcapacity, restructuring, unfair competition) of certain sectors, as well as a roadmap and a timetable in a long-term framework. they should promote the modernisation, sustainability and competitiveness of europe's industrial base through a value chain-aware policy that covers enterprises of all sizes, pays due attention to core industries and promotes the maintenance of the production chain in europe.
in writing. − building on the coal and steel community, the eu is now in the paradoxical position of having to face the negative effects of a general deindustrialisation. the global crisis has only revealed that the massive deindustrialisation of member states towards a predominantly service-based economy is a vulnerability. over the past two decades, the eu's industrial decline has intensified, with it on the verge of losing out to global players concerned with strengthening, diversifying and researching and innovating their industries for the 21st century. the report on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability adopted today in the european parliament supplements the commission's view of the acute need to rebuild europe's industry, which until recently was characterised by performance and competitiveness. i voted for this report because i am convinced that the eu needs a strategy to combat the crisis by launching a new economic dynamic that creates jobs, reindustrialisation being an essential component, without which such a plan will not have the desired result.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament decision on the council recommendation on the appointment of a member of the executive board of the european central bank, giving a favourable opinion on the appointment of sabina lautenschläger as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. by letter of 8 january 2014, the european council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of sabina lautenschläger as a member of the executive board of the european central bank for a term of office of eight years. the vote was in favour, given that the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament assessed ms lautenschläger's qualifications, in particular with regard to the conditions laid down in article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and, as follows from article 130 tfeu, the imperative of the ecb's full independence in the field of monetary policy. the commission also held a hearing with ms lautenschläger on 13 january 2014, during which she made an introductory statement and then answered the questions put by the members of the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the reduction in the excise duty on traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments will reduce the competitive disadvantage of these areas. we're talking about remote island areas with a small land area, difficult terrain and climate. these areas are often economically dependent on a limited number of products, such as cane sugar rum. therefore, the reduction of up to 50% below the normal national level of the excise duty on alcohol for these specific products will be a compensation but also a support to the competitive value chain of traditional rum from these areas. it is also an important step in support of the eu's objective of stimulating the economies of the outermost regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision authorising france to apply a reduced rate of certain indirect taxes to 'traditional' rum produced in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. the decision authorises france to apply, in the territory of metropolitan france, to 'traditional' rum produced in the french overseas departments a reduced rate of excise duty which may be lower than the minimum rate of excise duty laid down in directive 92/84/eec but which may not be more than 50% lower than the normal national level of excise duty on alcohol. the reduction in the excise duty shall be limited to an annual quota of 120 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol. this derogation shall expire on 31 december 2013. the purpose of this measure is to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantages caused by remoteness, insularity, small area, difficult terrain and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products, in particular the value chain of rum from cane sugar, factors whose persistence and combination seriously impair their development. france shall submit a report to the commission by 31 july 2017 in order to assess whether the reasons justifying the granting of a reduced rate continue to exist.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i too believe that the rules of procedure should be amended to solve a number of problems relating to the application of the rules on the immunity of members. alignment of these rules with the case law of the european court of justice was also needed, which can give greater consistency to parliament's decisions in this area. it should be borne in mind, however, that only if a member is acting in that official capacity can he be granted immunity. the commission is also proposing to amend the rules of the european parliament in this area to ensure that any abuse is avoided.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision amending the rules of procedure of parliament as regards the waiver and defence of parliamentary immunity. parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of members but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members. in exercising its powers in respect of privileges and immunities, parliament shall act in order to preserve its integrity as a democratic legislative assembly and to ensure the independence of members in the performance of their duties. any request addressed to the president by a competent authority of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member or by a member or a former member for the defence of privileges and immunities shall be announced in parliament and forwarded to the committee responsible. the commission shall examine without delay, but taking into account their relative complexity, requests for waiver of immunity or for the defence of privileges and immunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution and therefore against the placing on the market of a genetically modified maize, as i consider that the studies published so far on the safety of this species are inconclusive. this is all the more important as the european food safety authority has acknowledged that in its risk assessment of this maize it did not take into account the tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium, although this feature could lead to a wider use of glufosinate, especially as the use of this product is expected to end in 2017. the agency also drew attention to the fact that some butterfly species may be endangered when exposed to pollen from maize 1507. in these circumstances, where there are still questions about the safety of this genetically modified maize, a more detailed analysis is required, taking into account all the issues, and only after the completion of this analysis can the discussion on the authorisation of the cultivation of the genetically modified maize resume.
in writing. − i voted to reject the proposal for a decision on the placing on the market for cultivation, in accordance with directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, of a maize product (zea mays l. line 1507) genetically modified for resistance to certain harmful lepidoptera. no gmos have been approved for cultivation in the eu since 2010, when the amflora potato was authorised. this authorisation was annulled by the general court of the eu on 13 december 2013 and the only crop authorised for cultivation is monsanto mon 810 maize, the renewal of which has been pending for several years. the vast majority of consumers are concerned about genetically modified food, as indicated, inter alia, in the special eurobarometer 354 of 2010. we oppose the adoption of the proposal for a decision concerning the placing on the market of a maize product (zea mays l. line 1507) genetically modified for resistance to certain harmful lepidopterans. we also call on the council to reject the commission's proposal. we ask the commission not to propose the authorisation of any new strain of genetically modified organism and not to renew authorisations already granted until the risk assessment methods have been significantly improved.
as for the fundamental right of free movement, it seems that we are constantly talking to each other. no one disputes that one of the most fundamental rights of eu citizens is the right to choose freely where to live and work in the eu member states, but recently there has been a rise in voices that would still welcome certain groups of citizens with reservations. it is only certain groups, because nobody wants to exclude them from the european labour market, such as computer scientists, doctors, managers, only manual workers with often uncertain job opportunities, who sometimes still depend on the social systems of the states. abuses must be screened out, but we must not forget that the role of social systems is to help workers in difficult situations. it is not a fault of the system that this assistance is also used by workers from other states.
mr president, i welcome the adoption of this resolution. freedom of movement is a fundamental right of all union citizens, which is not negotiable. the european union would not have the same meaning for european citizens if they could not travel, work or study in any of the member states. we should not be surprised if we find ourselves in a situation where citizens lose their faith in the european project, and this is because of some electoral-motivated speeches, which feed the extremist rhetoric that is unfortunately gaining ground in europe. that is why we need to tell european citizens the truth and talk about the benefits to the host economies, about the contribution of these workers to filling the labour gap in the local market and their contribution to the social security systems of the host countries. there is also too little talk about recruiting highly qualified labour from countries such as romania, poland or bulgaria doctors, nurses, it specialists. the number of doctors who have left romania in recent years exceeds 15,000, which creates a real problem for the health system. many of them work in the uk. so we cannot agree to the union's rules and values only when they benefit us.
i supported this resolution because it reinforces a fundamental principle. all european citizens are equal and have the same rights and obligations within the european union. however, it is a very good lesson that the socialist government in bucharest is getting about what needs to be done and how it needs to proceed so that romania's image in europe is properly defended and protected. the resolution is proof that dialogue and respect for european principles and values are more effective than the crooked logic of prime minister ponta who, when he doesn't know what to do, starts swearing and insulting. on the other hand, i hope that all european politicians will understand that ethnic rhetoric is a big mistake and does not serve the construction of a united europe.
in writing. − free movement is at the heart of the european union's values, giving its citizens the choice of where to live and work, and ensuring mobility and the development of the labour market, education and other areas. although only 2.8% of all eu citizens live in a member state other than their home, they are still a key element of the success of the internal market and drive europe's economy. calls on the commission and the member states to ensure the strict application of union law in order to guarantee that all eu workers are treated equally and are not discriminated against in terms of access to employment, employment and working conditions, remuneration, dismissal, social benefits and tax benefits, thus ensuring fair competition between enterprises; urges the national authorities to combat all unjustified restrictions or obstacles to the right of free movement of workers, together with any exploitation of workers; it is important that member states make full and transparent use of the resources available under european funds, such as the european social fund and the regional development fund, to promote the integration and social inclusion of workers and to support local communities to this end.
in writing. − i believe that member states must make full and transparent use of the resources available under european funds, such as the european social fund and the european regional development fund, to promote integration, social inclusion and the fight against poverty and to support the efforts of local communities to cope with an increase in the number of disadvantaged citizens, whether or not they are nationals of their country.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which concludes a major debate on the fundamental right of european citizens to freedom of movement. it is essential to recall the fundamental principles of eu law on freedom of movement. in the current pre-electoral context, there is a proliferation of populist arguments and aggressive ads that call into question one of the fundamental freedoms on which the union is built. i welcome the fact that this resolution highlights the benefits of freedom of movement for the economy of both host and mobile labour supplying countries. the mobility of european citizens is one way of tackling labour shortages in a large number of sectors. on the other hand, it is important to reiterate that mobile citizens working in another member state contribute more to the social security systems of the host countries than they benefit from them. only 2.8% of european citizens live in another member state, but they are a crucial element in the success of the internal market, contributing to the dynamism of the economy. indeed, more people are economically active in their host countries than in their host countries.
in writing. - it is absolutely regrettable that after more than 50 years of trying to facilitate free movement, we have a debate about the possibility of taking a step backwards by restricting this freedom. i can therefore only support a resolution which recalls the fundamental nature of this freedom in the eu and which restores certain truths about the impact of intra-european migration on national social systems on the basis of statistics published by the member states themselves. i am outraged by the attitude of some european leaders who forget the benefits that free movement has brought to their own country, only presenting the isolated abuses, which they extrapolate as a generalized phenomenon. if there are abuses, they must obviously be fought. but i do not think that a european citizen who exercises his right to free movement automatically commits an abuse. but that is how things are presented to the citizens of certain european countries. such an attitude is deeply dishonest and the result is that freedom of movement is sacrificed on the altar of the electoral ambitions of parties which have no real solutions to the underlying problems and which prefer to disinform their own citizens and denigrate the citizens of certain member states, ignoring the risks of re-awakening nationalist and xenophobic sentiments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on respect for the fundamental right of free movement in the eu. free movement is a fundamental right of the european union, on which the success of the eu has been built. the european commission must therefore take all measures to defend it. behind the demagogic debates in some member states, particularly in the uk, are the electoral ambitions of extremist parties, but also of other parties that have unfortunately adopted anti-immigration rhetoric as an electoral strategy. romanians are full european citizens. romanians are not second-class european citizens!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on respect for the fundamental right of free movement in the eu. the right to free movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union as a cornerstone of european integration, and is directly linked to eu citizenship. we strongly disagree with the position taken by some european leaders who have called for changes to be made and for the free movement of citizens to be restricted. we call on member states to avoid any measures that could affect the right to free movement based on eu primary law. we reject outright any proposal to cap the number of migrants in the eu, as it contradicts the principle of the eu treaty on the free movement of persons. we stress that labour mobility contributes to the competitiveness of the european economy. we call on the commission and the member states to ensure the strict application of union law so as to guarantee that all eu workers are treated equally and are not discriminated against in terms of access to employment, employment and working conditions, remuneration, dismissal, social benefits and tax benefits, thus ensuring fair competition between businesses. we urge the national authorities to combat all unjustified restrictions or obstacles to the right of free movement of workers, together with any exploitation of workers.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the measures of the left-wing government in malta are to be condemned. i wonder how maltese citizens appreciate such an initiative, seeing that foreigners with money are granted the same rights as they have. i take this opportunity to clarify the controversy generated by mr swoboda's statements that romania too easily grants romanian citizenship to the inhabitants of the republic of moldova. i hereby inform mr swoboda that citizens of the republic of moldova or their descendants regain the romanian citizenship lost after the annexation of bessarabia by the ussr in 1940, and that the procedures for regaining citizenship are very transparent and in no case do they bring material benefits to the romanian state, as is the case with the maltese government's proposal.
in writing. − i believe that european union citizenship involves an interest in the union and depends on a person's links with europe or its member states or personal links with eu citizens, and i believe that it should never become a commodity that can be traded.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on observed cases of sale of eu citizenship. in particular, the maltese government has recently taken steps to introduce a system of outright sale of maltese citizenship, which automatically implies the outright sale of european citizenship without residence requirements. these measures are intolerable because they undermine the mutual trust of the member states on which the union is based. it is unacceptable that some eu member states are putting their passports up for sale and thus allowing wealthy foreigners to gain access to european citizenship and benefit from the absence of border controls as nationals of schengen countries, while two eu member states, romania and bulgaria, are still excluded! i call on the european commission to indicate as soon as possible whether these schemes comply with the european treaties, the schengen border code and the provisions on non-discrimination. european citizenship should never become a commodity like any other!
in writing. − i supported this resolution because i consider the sale of european citizenship to be at least abnormal. citizenship is a symbol of belonging to a community with which the citizen has certain rather strong ties and shares a set of values. it cannot be considered a commercial good. such an approach strips european citizenship of any symbolism and is unfair to those who already have that nationality and to those who are making efforts to integrate, hoping to obtain it one day. it is very true that member states have exclusive competence to define the criteria on the basis of which citizenship is granted. it should not be forgotten, however, that along with the citizenship of a member state, a third-country national also receives european citizenship, with all the rights and freedoms it entails. given the existence of the schengen area and freedom of movement, the granting of citizenship against payment ceases to be a purely national matter. i therefore believe that member states must show responsibility and take account of the secondary effects that such initiatives may have on other member states and, by implication, on mutual trust between them.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the sale of eu citizenship. some eu member states have introduced schemes which directly or indirectly involve the sale of eu citizenship to third-country nationals. eu citizens have the right to move and reside freely within the eu, the right to vote and stand as candidates in municipal and european parliamentary elections, regardless of the state in which they live in the eu, under the same conditions as nationals of that state, and the right to receive assistance from the embassy or consulate of another eu member state outside the eu under the same conditions as nationals of that country if their country is not represented. any national system that may involve the sale of eu citizenship undermines the very concept of european citizenship. we call on the member states to recognise and assume their responsibilities for protecting the union's values and objectives. we invite the commission to assess the different citizenship systems in the light of european values and the spirit and letter of eu law and practice and to develop recommendations to prevent these systems from undermining the values on which the eu is founded, as well as guidelines on access to eu citizenship through national systems.
i voted in favour of the resolution because serbia has made progress in the last year, but i draw attention to the fact that some of the reforms are not being implemented properly. i am referring to the copenhagen criteria for the protection of minorities. although the situation is better than in 2012, there are still problems, especially with regard to the romanian timocenians. students who want to learn in romanian face administrative obstacles set by local authorities in serbia. whether it is the permanent change of location of romanian language courses or their very late schedules, many students are forced to drop out of these courses. but much of the blame also lies with the socialist government in bucharest, which is not sufficiently involved in solving the problems of the romanians in the timoc valley.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2013 follow-up report on serbia's progress towards eu membership and i welcome its adoption. the resolution welcomes the commitment of the serbian government to european integration and encourages serbia to pursue the systemic and socioeconomic reforms that will enable it to effectively implement the obligations of future membership. the future of serbia is in the european union. serbia should be congratulated on the official opening of the negotiations for its accession to the european union. it is a well-deserved achievement for the country, which marks the beginning of a period of much-needed reforms in such major areas as the independence of the judiciary, respect for fundamental rights, and the fight against corruption.
in writing. − the year 2013 brought serbia one step closer to the eu. the european council opened accession negotiations with serbia on 28 june 2013, serbia established the first agreement on the principles of normalisation with kosovo and, together with the european commission, launched the review process starting with fundamental rights and judiciary. i salute all the efforts made by serbia towards the eu! however, we cannot afford to sit on our hands when it comes to respecting eu values! and the accession process must be conditional on full respect for european values and progress. we must continue to encourage serbia's progress, especially in strengthening the rule of law, minority rights, environmental protection, and not least the recognition of the central role of civil society organisations in strengthening democracy.
in writing. − the 2013 progress report on serbia is a positive signal for the balkan countries to become members of the european union. the resolution underlines that serbia has demonstrated its commitment to the european accession process by implementing anti-corruption measures and socioeconomic reforms as part of eu conditionalities, but also by efforts to improve relations between belgrade and pristina. also, to stay on the european path, serbia must first step up justice reforms, as recommended by the venice commission, ensure the implementation of bilateral and multilateral agreements on the protection of minorities, and create a legal framework ensuring access to education, media and religious services in minority languages. social dialogue and structural economic reforms are essential for serbia's participation in the single market; effective energy and environmental policies and institutional capacity building are objectives that serbia needs to introduce in the implementation of reforms in the next period.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote on this report. serbia is part of europe, it must be encouraged on the path of european integration, while at the same time i disapprove of the discriminatory treatment it applies to the minority of romanian origin living on its territory.
in writing. − i voted on the resolution on the 2013 progress report on serbia. serbia has made efforts to sufficiently fulfil the political criteria and conditions attached to the stabilisation and association process. we reaffirm our strong support for visa liberalisation for the western balkan countries as an important pillar of the european integration process for the whole region, but at the same time we express our concern at the high number of asylum seekers. we also call for measures to be taken at national level, in particular socio-economic measures targeting the most vulnerable groups, as well as active measures to crack down on organised crime networks involved in human trafficking. we appreciate the constructive approach of the serbian government to relations with neighbouring countries, as it has made substantial progress possible in achieving both regional cooperation and closer relations with the eu. we stress the crucial importance of regional cooperation and reconciliation, particularly with regard to energy issues and the development of transport and energy networks. we also underline the importance of serbia's cooperation in the implementation of projects for the development of the danube region.
i voted against the resolution because, as long as the status of the kosovo region is not clarified, negotiations with the union cannot move forward. they also disagree with the condition that the negotiations between the union and serbia be conditional on progress in the belgrade-pristina dialogue. despite this, i support the normalisation of relations between the two sides and believe that this can ensure stability in the whole region. unfortunately, kosovo cannot be administered as a functioning state of law. organised crime and corruption undermine administrative capacity. the functioning of the judiciary is also flawed, as the report shows. lastly, although the region aspires to candidate status, the authorities there have not been able to effectively address the issue of discrimination against minorities, a fundamental criterion for rapprochement with the union.
in writing. - i voted against the report because the first part of paragraph 13 was approved, which 'encourages the other five member states to recognise kosovo'. i voted against this point, which i consider essential. romania, the state i represent, does not recognise the legal existence of the state of kosovo, and this position must be respected by the other states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo. all eu member states support the european perspective of kosovo, in line with the eu's commitments to the western balkans and without prejudice to the positions of the member states on the status of kosovo. the authorities and the population of the republic of kosovo have implemented important political, administrative and economic reforms, but efforts are still needed to strengthen the rule of law, which is the cornerstone of the long-term development of democracy and the social market economy. we welcome the conclusion on 19 april 2013 of the first agreement on the principles of normalisation by the two prime ministers, thaci and dacic, as well as the agreement on the implementation plan, and underline the importance of its full implementation in good faith and in a timely manner. we also welcome the allocation of european funds under the instrument for pre-accession assistance in support of the implementation of the agreement. we stress the importance of the development of public transport, in particular with regard to the modernisation or creation of new rail links within a sustainable transport system. we suggest building a cross-border high-speed rail system between all the countries of the western balkans, which will be connected to the trans-european network in the european union.
in writing. − even though the current icelandic government has temporarily suspended negotiations for a referendum, iceland remains a candidate country for european union membership. with 27 chapters completed and 11 pending, iceland proves that it can become an eu member. i am confident that iceland's accession will benefit both the nordic state and the rest of the union and that there will be an exchange of good practice that will help improve the lives of citizens in the eu and iceland.
in writing. − i voted for the 2012 report on iceland's progress and the outlook after the elections. iceland fulfils the copenhagen criteria and accession negotiations with iceland were opened on 27 july 2010. 27 chapters were opened for negotiation, of which 11 were provisionally closed. the icelandic government has stated that accession negotiations will not be continued without a national referendum beforehand. we express our hope that the referendum will be held within a reasonable time. the commission notes that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the authority notes that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence. the european union thus maintains its full commitment to the continuation and completion of the accession negotiations process and iceland is still considered a candidate country. the european parliament welcomes the prospect of a country with a well-functioning democratic tradition, strong institutions and civil society as a new member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in south sudan. the republic of south sudan is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world, with 50% of its population living below the poverty line, the highest maternal mortality rate, one of the highest infant mortality rates, an illiteracy rate of approximately 75% and only one third of the population having access to clean water. we strongly condemn the recent outbreak of fighting in south sudan and call on all parties to lay down their arms and immediately end the violence that has resulted in civilian deaths, injuries and damage and displaced hundreds of thousands of people since the beginning of the crisis in december 2013. we urge all parties concerned to respect international humanitarian and human rights law, as well as to grant access and protection to humanitarian agencies that come to the aid of the suffering civilian population, and to open humanitarian corridors for the delivery of supplies and equipment. we call on the international community to honour its commitments on funding to south sudan and the region and to mobilise its resources to respond as swiftly as possible to the worsening humanitarian situation in south sudan.
i voted in favour of the resolution and point out that eliminating the phenomenon of homelessness by 2015 seems impossible at this point. in romania, their number is estimated at over 15 000. that's despite the fact that we have a socialist executive who should make reducing homelessness a priority. the effects of the phenomenon are profound. whether we're talking about the increase in crime or the condemnation of these people to a life of poverty, we all have something to lose. a solution to this problem could be public-private partnership between authorities and economic operators. but interest is too low, and these people are invisible to the governments. perhaps also because many do not have id and cannot turn into a voting machine.
in writing. − homelessness remains a problem across europe, and the nature of the homeless population is changing. homelessness has a negative effect on both the homeless person and society. despite progress in many member states in tackling the phenomenon, there is a clear need for support and policy coordination at european level. not only does the definition of homelessness vary widely between member states, but data collection and reporting are also highly heterogeneous. i believe that the eu needs to develop a common framework to support and monitor member states in developing policies to tackle homelessness.
in writing. − homelessness is a violation of human dignity and human rights and is the most serious form of poverty and insecurity, and in recent years it has increased in almost all member states. the commission should develop an eu homelessness strategy without delay and should also give due attention to homelessness in its country-specific recommendations to member states where progress is urgently needed. member states should pay more attention to the issue of homelessness in their national reform programmes. member states should also ensure affordable and adapted social housing for the most vulnerable people, in order to prevent social exclusion and homelessness. it is also important that member states use the resources of the fund for european aid to the most deprived, as well as other programmes such as the european social fund, to improve the situation of homeless people and create a pathway to social inclusion and labour market integration.
in writing. − i believe that both the commission and the council should create an 'eu shelter guarantee' to ensure that there are enough emergency shelters and other facilities and services for homeless people in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the european union’s homelessness strategy. this debate highlights the critical nature of homelessness in the european union. in recent years, those member states which have been most severely hit by the economic crisis have witnessed an unprecedented and worrying increase in homelessness. the fight against poverty and social exclusion should become a major priority for the eu in the near future, especially during the next commission mandate. i welcome and strongly share the repeated calls for the commission to develop an eu homelessness strategy and to establish a high-level expert group to support it without any further delay. the growth in homelessness targets europeans from all generations. the situation of street children is a specifically worrying and growing reality that the commission should take into particular account in its elaboration of the eu homelessness strategy, which should be put together in close cooperation with local authorities as well as with competent civil society organisations, whose work on the field is vital for such children.
in writing. - i voted for amendment no 8 which welcomes the provisions of the new european social fund regulation on the establishment of indicators to monitor the effectiveness of investments in homeless people or people affected by housing exclusion. we call on the commission to make the most of the potential of these new instruments. i also voted for amendment no 5 because access to housing is a fundamental right and a precondition for the exercise and enjoyment of citizenship in full dignity. ensuring access to decent and adequate housing is an international obligation of the member states, which the union must respect. a homelessness strategy will only work if it is integrated into a comprehensive plan to tackle poverty and unemployment, promote economic development and end the undermining of labour rights and standards and wage levels, combined with a spatial planning and housing policy that aims to meet the needs and respect the rights of the population.
the author. - mr president, the epp group is against any form of discrimination, whether on ethnic, racial or sexual grounds. our belief is that human rights are universal. however, we did not sign the joint resolution on the subject we are discussing now, because we felt that it was rather oriented by an electoral intention, and not related to a pressing emergency, as has happened in other cases. but we are, like our colleagues in the other political groups, concerned about what is happening in uganda, nigeria, india and russia. we call on the ugandan president to repeal paragraph 415 of the country's penal code, which makes same-sex sexual relations a crime. we also call on the president of nigeria to repeal sections 214 and 217 of the nigerian penal code, which refer to same-sex relationships in the same way. we appreciate the indian government's initiative to ask the supreme court to review its ruling on section 377 of the indian penal code, which prohibits homosexuality.
mr president, i would simply like to propose that russia be added to paragraph 14 as an addressee, namely the parliament and the president of that country. we had forgotten about russia.
thank you mr president, madam commissioner. i think that reducing the formalities to the exchange of official documents is in principle a good idea. this could strengthen free movement within the union and move towards greater integration. we must be aware that in certain cases these formalities are indeed necessary. eliminating legalisation or apostillation for certain types of documents could create more difficulties than benefits for our citizens. for example, it is not sufficiently clear which acts in the real estate sector will be exempted from these formalities. in addition, in the field of companies and successions, there are very different legal traditions in the member states, which leads to a greater diversity of documents. i would point out that there are provisions in the regulation which could lead to attempted fraud or forgery of documents. in the end, the aim should be to simplify the life of the citizen, but not the life of those who do not hesitate to commit fraud. i therefore consider that the scope of application must be limited to extracts from public registers which can be easily recognised by the officials concerned. i think it would be a compromise option that would reduce costs for european citizens and at the same time provide legal certainty. another option for cost reduction would be to reduce national taxes which ultimately reach the state budget as a result of such operations.
thank you, mr president. i believe that simplifying the acceptance of documents is a landmark in improving the lives of millions of europeans. i understand all the legal security concerns. guarantees are never enough. obviously, not every category of act can be subject to a simpler regime, but i believe, nevertheless, that the interests of ordinary citizens must come first. for citizens, simplifying the bureaucracy of their daily lives will bring tangible and real benefits. it's about millions of families, about millions of documents that need to be legalized or apostilled every year. the introduction of a standard form in all the languages of the union is an essential element and i support the application of this system to diplomas. i support the regulation and believe that the new measures will make european citizens feel even more european. i also believe that reducing red tape must remain a permanent objective of the union and the member states.
thank you mr president, madam commissioner. the free movement of persons, a fundamental principle of the union, allows european citizens to live, work or study in another member state. unfortunately, the recognition of documents and certificates from the country of origin is still often a barrier to this european right. i would stress the importance of this regulation in simplifying bureaucracy and facilitating citizens' access to free movement. the translation of standard forms, the official documents used jointly by the member states, will further facilitate their movement across borders. these translations should be made available to the public and the authorities in order to avoid misunderstandings and facilitate communication. it is also important that the fee for issuing a union form does not exceed the fee for issuing the equivalent official document in the member state concerned. at the same time, the simplification of the acceptance of official documents should be extended to a wider range of categories. thank you. thank you.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure thank you, mr president. i would like to ask mr karim whether he does not think that more emphasis should have been placed in his report and that, unfortunately, in recent years, in the legislation proposed by the commission, we have increasingly encountered delegated acts and implementing acts. parliament only has a veto on delegated acts - we cannot change that text in any way - and unfortunately for companies and for citizens, it is very difficult to follow these delegated acts. citizens follow the regulations, the directives that we approve in the european parliament and in the council. i'm waiting for your answer. thank you. thank you.
mr president, while progress can be shown in many areas of better lawmaking and a reduction of regulatory and administrative burdens, which has always been a priority for the epp in the eu and the member states, a lot of work remains to be done: renegotiating the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking in order to take into account the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty and agreeing, inter alia, on common criteria with the other institutions on the application of delegated and implementing acts. the revision of the commission’s impact assessment guidelines is foreseen for june 2014. parliament should reserve the right to make a contribution by setting out potential improvements to those guidelines in the coming months. for example, the commitment to carry out an impact assessment when this is considered appropriate must be taken into account prior to the adoption of a substantive amendment. another important concern for the epp group has always been the independence of the commission’s impact assessment board. concerning national parliaments, we should improve the functioning of the existing mechanism with reference to the recent experience in the yellow-card procedure. the report also reflects the recent commission communication on refit. we must ensure that this report is balanced. it should not reflect just one policy area such as employment. the effectiveness of eu law should be made through correct implementation, reducing burdens for smes and tackling unnecessary gold-plating.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure thank you, madam president. i would like to ask my colleague malcolm harbour whether he also envisages a better use of the studies carried out both by parliament, through the public policy department, and by the stoa, which is obliged to put the scientific and technological options for a better use at the disposal of parliament. i think they are too little used and i would like to ask you if you are considering this as well.
while the commission, as guardian of the treaties, carries out its own investigations to detect breaches of union law, citizens, businesses and organisations concerned contribute significantly to this monitoring activity by reporting on shortcomings in the transposition and/or application of union law by member states' authorities. after the detection of problems, bilateral discussions take place between the commission and the member state concerned with a view to remedying them, where possible, using the eu pilot platform. i regret that parliament's resolutions and, in particular, parliament's request for binding rules in the form of a regulation laying down the various aspects of the infringement procedure and the preliminary infringement procedure, including notifications, mandatory time limits, the right to be heard and the obligation to state reasons, have not been followed up. thank you. thank you.
thank you, madam president. i would like to congratulate our colleague on the quality of her report and on all the work she has done on this important subject of health and safety at work. i would also like to take advantage of the presence of commissioner andor to ask him to present, if possible, the state of play of the work on the recognition of occupational diseases caused by exposure to pesticides in agriculture. even if it is not the subject of today's debate, i consider it to be a very important subject and i would be grateful if the commissioner could make a point.
thank you very much, madam president. although we are talking about a very technical regulation, its adoption will provide greater coherence to the legal framework for the classification and labelling of chemicals. as a new mother, i would like to draw particular attention to the dangers that pregnant women face at work. they are very often exposed to dangerous substances, such as carcinogens. even if the effects on them are minimal or non-existent, the development of the foetus may be affected, and the foetus may be born with malformations or other diseases. also, when nursing, young mothers may more easily pass on certain diseases to their baby. children with weaker immune systems are more susceptible to exposure to certain substances. the five directives in this area should therefore be revised to provide a high degree of protection for all categories of workers.
journalist dan tăpalagă accused a week ago the socialist deputy sebastian ghiță, owner of a television station, of threatening and intimidating him. the president of the braila county council, the socialist bunea stanciu, told a journalist that he would kick her in the mouth because she asked him why he was skiing instead of being at the office. tv channel antena 3, which belongs to one of the members of the governing coalition in bucharest and embraces all the official positions of the social democratic party propaganda, organizes campaigns to denigrate unregistered journalists, the latest victim being andreea pora. the socialist prime minister victor ponta, who calls our colleague brok a fascist, is distributing the same infamous label in the country to those who disagree with him. in romania we are witnessing the birth of a neo-bolshevism. the romanian socialists have towards the press and towards political opponents the attitude that the communists had in the service of moscow in 1945-1946. i ask the european socialists to distance themselves from their comrades in bucharest.
the european union is first and foremost the 500 million european citizens. the future of the union therefore means the future of the european citizens, who must have confidence in their own future. according to eurostat, the unemployment rate in the eu-28 reached 12% at the end of last year, and for young people under 25 it was even 23.2%. in order not to risk losing an entire generation, it is essential that the union and the member states give young people the chance to contribute to the development of their society to the same extent as previous generations. the youth guarantee is a useful tool, but it is not enough. the main priority, both for the union and for the member states, must be job creation. the union and the member states must invest in the modernisation of european industry to ensure its competitiveness and to preserve industrial production on european territory. the future of the union must not only be based on a strong service sector but also on an eco-efficient and sustainable industry. thank you. thank you.
thank you, madam president. almost six months ago, we took a stand against the statements of certain politicians both from national politics in some member states and from colleagues here in the european parliament, who predicted that by january 2014 there would be a real invasion of romanians and bulgarians into their countries, with the lifting of the restrictions on work for romanians and bulgarians. in october 2013, in a debate in the european parliament, i presented the results of a study, results that contradicted all these aberrations with very clear arguments. and now january 2014 has passed, and we can now say with certainty that this did not happen. on the contrary, the number of romanians and bulgarians who emigrated to other european countries in search of work has decreased. i hope this is also the end of irresponsible statements by politicians who only want to see themselves on the electoral rolls. thank you. thank you.
thank you. thank you. through the single market clause, the unfair commercial practices directive aims to ensure a high level of consumer protection throughout the union and to increase consumers' confidence in the single market, while guaranteeing businesses a significant level of legal certainty and reducing obstacles to cross-border trade. we call on the commission and the member states to ensure the proper application of the unfair commercial practices directive, in particular with regard to the hidden, misleading publication on the internet in the form of comments posted on social networks, forums or blogs ostensibly coming from consumers, when in reality they are messages of a commercial or advertising nature, generated or even financed directly or indirectly by economic operators. these practices have a detrimental effect on consumer confidence and competition rules. the rapid development of online advertising requires the development of an appropriate monitoring mechanism to ensure the protection of vulnerable groups, in particular minors. thank you. thank you.
in writing. while unfair trading practices are not a thing of the past, it must be recognised that directive 2005/29/ec has brought substantial improvements for european consumers. i support the content of this report as it focuses on the key issues without, however, suggesting the need to revise the current legislation. clearly, one of the solutions is the correct application of the provisions of the directive, which has not yet been done in all member states. the development of online commerce is undoubtedly an opportunity, but it also comes with a number of challenges posed by new unfair commercial practices, such as the misleading use of reviews on different websites or hidden advertising on social networks. i am pleased that the report also raises the issue of price manipulation, particularly by airlines, by recording a consumer's previous searches, which are an indicator of consumer interest in a particular destination. i consider this practice unacceptable and i believe that further analysis by the european commission is needed in this regard. finally, i believe that consumer associations play a key role in raising awareness among consumers about unfair commercial practices and the rights of those who are victims of such practices.
thank you. thank you. access to an effective justice system is a fundamental right, which is at the heart of european democracies and enshrined in the common constitutional traditions of the member states. it is crucial for the effectiveness of all european union legislation, in particular the union's economic legislation, which contributes to growth. the use of information and communication technologies has become indispensable for the effective administration of justice. i would stress that the use of new technologies can effectively contribute to reducing costs and speeding up judicial procedures, in particular through the use of computerised applications and case management and communication tools. i would stress that when making investment decisions, companies take into account the risk of being involved in commercial, labour or tax disputes or insolvencies. therefore, the efficiency with which a country's judicial system handles disputes is very important. thank you. thank you.
smart grids contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of energy from renewable sources and ensuring security of supply for households. i encourage regions and local authorities to invest in smart energy systems as a potential source of sustainable and green jobs at local level. the construction industry is one of the main areas where jobs will be created both through direct investment in smart energy networks and by stimulating the development of technology in the european union, innovation and competitiveness of smes, through investment in energy efficiency measures and renovation, for example in the housing sector. personal data collected in connection with the operation of smart energy systems are highly sensitive as they can be used to obtain information on consumer behaviour and therefore special protection of such data should be ensured. thank you. thank you.
in writing. the european energy sector is facing challenges such as the continuous increase in electricity demand, the need to liberalise the energy market, the deployment of storage technologies, and the adaptation of the trans-european electricity market to sustainable energy trends. smart grids help to increase innovation capacity, support regional development and, by implication, strengthen the competitiveness of european industry by exploiting the potential offered by smes. regions have the opportunity to invest in smart grids in order to reduce their energy costs and to achieve a two-way system for electricity generation and distribution. the financial support to regional energy projects shall target investments in renewable technologies at household level. we need an integrated approach that includes commercial, technical and regulatory factors in relation to specific development needs. the funding provided under the research and innovation (r&i) programmes comprises actions aiming at the exchange of information, the implementation of innovative solutions and the standardised coordination of investments. smart energy systems can be put into practice through a strategy for regions and local communities, by allocating 20% of erdf support to investments for energy transition.
i agree with the rapporteur that small farms and semi-subsistence farms are not treated properly under the cap, despite the fact that the agricultural structure of the member states that joined after 2004 is completely different from that of the old member states. my country is in a particularly difficult situation in this respect, since 48.5% of farms with less than two hectares and 43% of farms with less than five hectares are located in romania. the situation is even more serious in the case of semi-autonomous plants. romania accounts for 61,5% of all such farms in the eu. moreover, this represents 93% of all farms in romania. it can therefore be stated that, by concentrating exclusively on restructuring, romanian agriculture is not capable of developing under the current conditions. if we do not pay particular attention to member states which, for historical and economic reasons, are in a particular situation, we will jeopardise the competitiveness of the whole sector and the already difficult livelihoods of those who are farmers.
thank you very much. romania has the largest number of small farms in the union, one third of all those at community level, and their importance is not only economic but also social, demographic or even cultural. small farmers thus secure their own consumption as well as income sources and help to limit depopulation of rural areas. i believe that member states need to strengthen their efforts to integrate small farms into the market. the prospect of working in this field must become attractive to young people as well as to highly qualified people or women. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that farmers in countries such as romania are in unequal competition with those in western europe, due to differences in the level of direct payments per hectare.
thank you, madam president. in recent years, european legislation has required member states to make changes to agricultural legislation that particularly affect small farms. in romania, agriculture accounts for about 37% of the working population, compared to an average of only 15% in the other eastern states and 5.9% in the old states of the european union. as such, romania needs to find solutions for the reorientation of some two million people from the agricultural sector to other secondary sectors of activity or retirement, especially since, after the reduction of industrial activity, many elderly people have decided to return to the country to work their land to secure their food needs. on the other hand, young people up to 40 years old who would like to work in agriculture cannot do so because of the lack of agricultural land or financial resources. given that agricultural activities are strategic, we need to find solutions in both the two pillars of the cap, but also in cohesion policy and the european social fund. thank you. thank you.
thank you. thank you. small farms are a social agricultural model that is still prevalent in the european union. they have a production function but also contribute to the preservation of both the specific characteristics of the european countryside and the biodiversity of rural areas and provide the livelihoods of millions of people in europe. small farms are a labour reserve for rural tourism, as they maintain traditions, customs and other beautiful material heritages and ensure the manufacture of regional and traditional products. to address the problems of small farms, the common agricultural policy needs to be linked to other european union policies, including cohesion policy, in order to help improve technical infrastructure and access to public services in rural areas. the european social fund may finance certain social and community measures concerning social inclusion, education, training and knowledge transfer. thank you. thank you.
in writing. this debate is essential in the context of the close implementation of the european agricultural reform. this reform contains many positive elements for small farms. i would like to stress, however, that among the unsatisfactory elements is the continuation of the major differences between agricultural subsidies, to the detriment of the new member states; my amendment in this respect is included in the report. the report also contains the amendment by which the commission drew attention to the pressure on agricultural land prices following the liberalisation of the land market in the new member states. small farmers will be hard hit by these pressures. but i think that this problem must be solved not by legislative barriers but by active measures which make farmers want to keep and work the land, not sell it. last but not least, i welcome the report's provision for small farms in mountainous or disadvantaged areas to benefit from coupled support for animal husbandry.
thank you. thank you. delivery of goods purchased online has been identified as one of the top five priorities for boosting e-commerce by 2015. cross-border delivery is also considered to be a barrier by 57% of retailers, while one in two consumers say they are concerned about delivery in cross-border transactions. in order to increase consumer confidence in the delivery process, it is important to ensure greater transparency and better information for the consumer on the available delivery options, prices and conditions, in particular as regards the conditions under which consumer orders are dispatched and the procedures to be followed in the event of damage, loss of goods or delay in their delivery or return. i support improving geographical coverage and accessibility to universal parcel delivery services in rural and remote areas. i also stress the importance of legal certainty. thank you. thank you.
the reporter. - thank you, madam president, commissioner, and colleagues. no doubt poverty, lack of legal security, lack of democracy and conflict zones have caused a wave of migration. sure, a vulnerability for citizens of this globe, and within this global vulnerability of those who are migrants, the vulnerability is exacerbated in the case of undocumented migrant women. we are faced with this reality, which is becoming more and more pressing in the context of the crisis, and to ignore it is to tolerate a form of modern slavery, which is unacceptable for the area of rights and freedoms that is the european union. my report aims to draw attention to the risks faced by women who are migrants without identity papers in the member states of the european union in terms of their fundamental rights. the risks are multiple and stem primarily from the lack of a regulated legal situation. the risks are also limited to the right to life, the right to education, the right to health. often these women cannot receive the minimum health care or have access to a minimum standard of education. the risks in the labour market are high. that is why, in full agreement with the employment committee, i have called for member states to implement the international labour organisation's convention no 29 on forced labour, because it is a form of forced labour. the risks of not respecting their pay rights are significant and we are faced in many member states with such realities as those highlighted by the press and ngos. but beyond these risks which are inherent in people who do not have legal status, i think we are obliged to implement the legal documents and the many directives we have and to ask, as we have done in the report, the member states to apply these documents. in particular the directives on residence permits, the directives on nationals, the directive on facilitating entry, transit and residence and, not least, the directive on the rights of victims, which is a legal advance because it does not make the rights of victims conditional on their regulated status. i called for not just member states to address this phenomenon and to find ways to encourage non-governmental organizations and communities to remove this phenomenon. in fact, women in this situation are in a certain form of social exclusion and our european option is to combat social exclusion. we have a major ambition in fighting poverty and that is why we must not ignore this population with a major security risk. i have made many recommendations in line with the directives, commission documents and scientific documentation and i would like to stress that although we do not have a statistical form of the number of people who are at risk of vulnerability, we will have to find solutions to identify them. we also identify them in many member states as being ignored and subject to conditions of major discrimination, and all this in an area of democracy and respect for human rights must no longer have a place. so it's a wake-up call to keep working and try to improve the work of the european commission so far. i thank the rapporteurs-designate and i believe that the fact that the european parliament is now concerned with this subject is a further step in our constant concern for the development of democracy and respect for human rights in general.
thank you very much, madam president. i welcome mrs nicolai's report and the fact that we are discussing for the first time the situation of undocumented migrant women. their problem is very delicate, since they have no rights within the union. as the report notes, they face double discrimination: gender and legal status. they can easily become victims of organised crime networks, human trafficking or prostitution. in addition, these women represent the most vulnerable category in all respects, being unable to seek help from the police or hospitals because of their legal status. as this report shows, it is important that member states take action. a minimum right to basic health services and a limited right to work would help improve living conditions for migrant women. thank you. thank you.
thank you. thank you. a migrant without identity documents is considered to be a third-country national whose stay in the union is illegal. the situation of undocumented migrant women is even more difficult, facing double discrimination on the grounds of gender and legal status, or even triple discrimination on the grounds of race. the responsibility for the weakening of the situation of undocumented migrants, who are frequently denied the right to decent housing, health services, schooling, protection from labour exploitation or physical and psychological abuse, lies with those who exert all possible pressure to eliminate guarantees of fundamental rights and sacrifice all the values and principles common to european society. it is our duty to defend the fundamental rights of migrants and especially of migrant women, which must be protected in accordance with european union law and international law, to which the member states are signatories. last but not least, i want to congratulate the reporter on her approach.
reporting for opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - thank you very much, mr. president. technology, the rapid evolution of digital business models, the mobility and increasing autonomy of online consumers require constant assessment of whether the current copyright rules provide adequate incentives and enable rightholders, rightholders and consumers to take advantage of the opportunities created by modern technologies. in the internet age, collective rights management should be able to evolve towards more pronounced transnational licensing models covering the territories of several member states and possibly the union as a whole. collective rights management across sectors needs to be adapted in terms of the efficiency, accuracy, transparency and accountability of online services offered to members and users. an excessively slow pace of modernisation has a negative impact on the availability of new offers to consumers and service providers, hampering the development of innovative services, in particular in the online environment. i consider it important to ensure the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of their personal data. finally, mr president, i believe that we must ensure that the directory of the less widely used languages is also available throughout the union. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. the directive creates a legislative framework that will improve the functioning of collective management organisations, while also facilitating the cross-border licensing of virtual works. for example, in the case of music works, there are currently 260 music e-services operating in the eu, which make available to users in the member states some 30 million online music tracks. extending the scope of the directive to more areas will also prove useful in defining the rules for the system and development of the online music market, as it will provide for greater transparency. the development of new online services will also benefit consumers. in addition to their important social and cultural role, they are also bearers of diversity, and they also create legal certainty for the rights holders by allowing them to be remunerated. but it's still a mystery to me why the european commission waited so long, why it started a public opinion poll on copyright only in december, and if it has already done so, why are we in such a hurry? the deadlines are very tight and there is even less time to evaluate the responses received. the way in which the 80 questions on which the consultation is based are worded is also open to criticism. they generally raise problems instead of questions to focus on the current situation. wouldn't it be more appropriate to reorganize the process and allocate the time necessary to thoroughly analyze the problems before we act in this sensitive area?
i thank you, mr president, i thank the rapporteurs and the commission for the work on this draft directive, which has been successfully completed. the issue of copyright management - of copyright enforcement - and transparency are the foundations of the european single market and therefore digital trade must be anchored in those foundations. i shall therefore vote in favour of this report and hope that the member states will implement the directive as soon as possible. thank you. thank you.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, my colleague michel barnier and i warmly welcome the fact that the european parliament endorses the agreement reached with the council last december on this proposal for a directive on criminal sanctions against market abuse. this is an important signal and it confirms that europe is taking all the measures needed to counter insider dealing and market manipulation on its financial markets. i would like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs, its chair sharon bowles and its rapporteur arlene mccarthy, as well as the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and its rapporteur emine bozkurt, for their support and for their excellent work to arrive at this landmark agreement with the council. today, parliament and the whole union will give a strong signal to financial markets: there is zero tolerance in the european union when it comes to market abuse. the new law will help restore confidence in our financial systems, it will close the loopholes which could have been exploited by criminals manipulating the financial market and it will strengthen cross-border cooperation in tackling market abuse. we take action so that those who practise a culture of cheating with other people’s savings will no longer be able to exploit regulatory loopholes in europe. criminal law is a powerful deterrent against manipulations. following the adoption of the directive, those guilty of market abuse will face the full power of criminal law. offenders found guilty of market abuse or, for example, of manipulating euribor, will face sanctions, including jail terms. in this respect i pay tribute to parliament for actually reinforcing our proposal by fixing defined jail terms for serious cases of insider trading and market manipulation. together with the market abuse regulation, on which the european parliament voted in september 2013, the eu is significantly strengthening the powers of member states to detect and punish insider dealing and market manipulation, by means of criminal law. this is needed in order to protect the integrity of our markets, in the interests of our businesses and of our citizens. so well done, the european parliament!
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank you and to place this important text and the vote in a more general context. remember, it was exactly four years ago, at the time of the hearing i had the honour of having before your parliament, even before the european commission was set up, that i committed myself to working with you on a dual, parallel 'agenda'; the first was to draw lessons from the crisis and promote the regularisation or rebuilding of smart regulation. we said at the time that no market, no product, no sector should escape effective regulation and public oversight. it was an agenda for transparency, for the soundness of financial markets, for accountability - we are there - and also an agenda that had to include the necessary tools of repression. the other agenda, which i have been pursuing with you with as much passion, has been the more proactive, more dynamic agenda for growth through the single market. we have already spoken about this, about copyright and intellectual property in particular. ladies and gentlemen, four years later, it is important to note that we have done this work, together, i should like to say, because many of these texts have been supported and improved by the european parliament. i welcome the progress made today with this directive on market abuse and manipulation, which will be criminally punishable wherever they are in the union. this directive is a real and decisive step forward in the fight against insider dealing and market manipulation. this agreement was made possible by your work. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council, mr bozkurt, and the president of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs bowles, and the lithuanian presidency, whom i greet with a retroactive note. i would like to highlight the outstanding work done on this and other subjects by arlene mccarthy; arlene, you have announced, for reasons which we respect, that you will not stand in the next european elections. i would like to commend you for your tenacity, your competence, your independence, and i say this publicly, on behalf of the european commission, and also on my own behalf, since we have worked so much together, that you will leave a great mark on the work of this parliament and this legislature. i say it like i mean it. (applause) i would like to thank ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this directive was necessary. several member states do not impose criminal penalties for any infringement of the current market abuse directive. the harmonization of criminal offences will mean that those who commit such abuses will no longer be able to escape justice, wherever they may be. i join viviane reding, with whom i have worked very closely and intelligently on this and other cases, in thanking parliament for its determination to strengthen our proposal for a directive, by imposing criminal penalties of up to four years' imprisonment for the most serious market abuse. i am sure that the real risk of prison will now have a real deterrent effect and will contribute effectively to restoring morale: it is a word that cannot be absent from the financial markets. we must instill a certain ethics and a sense of responsibility in this, including in an area where we saw, a few months ago, the scandalous reality of certain manipulations, the field of benchmarks, where there is a real threat and a real need for supervision. this directive also fills the gaps created by market developments by prohibiting market abuse on new trading platforms or on those that use all these new technologies that are moving so fast. it also regulates cross-manipulation between financial and commodity markets and, as i have just said, the manipulation of benchmark indices such as euribor or libor. this directive, ladies and gentlemen, we can be sure of, is a key element of this legislative architecture on market abuse, on the markets for financial instruments. we will have the opportunity to add a cornerstone to the edifice we have built together when we debate in april the adoption of another regulation which affects this whole sector, for which your colleague, markus ferber, has been the active rapporteur on regulations and directives on markets in financial instruments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think you can be collectively proud of the role you have played over the last four years in bringing, with the commission and with the support of the council, more transparency, accountability, rigor and, dare i say it, morality where it was needed in all your financial markets. i thank you very much for doing this with us.
on behalf of the epp group. thank you, mr president. i would like to thank mrs mccarthy, the commission and the council for having brought about this european regulation. as a colleague of mrs mccarthy, i want to thank her very much for her work in the econ committee, i want to tell her that whenever she has expressed a point of view we have appreciated that point of view and, of course, i regret that she will not be running for the european parliament again. i want to make it very clear here that one of the most destructive effects on the capital market is the loss of confidence by investors in those who are experts in different market organizations, in companies, and who sometimes try and succeed in manipulating the market by leaking information from within a small group of individuals. in my country, romania, i witnessed one of the most serious cases of market manipulation, of stock market manipulation, when a major oil processing company was listed on the market. individuals who had inside information in the first few seconds participated in the purchase of shares, then in the next few seconds, making extremely large gains. the case was brought before the romanian courts, but unfortunately the romanian courts were not accustomed to dealing with such cases, there were no clear provisions in the criminal code on the punishment of such market manipulation and, consequently, the guilty are today free and clear. i shall vote in favour of this report and i hope that we can really put a stop to this destructive practice. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to welcome this proposal for a directive, which aims to strengthen the legislative framework on market abuse by harmonising the penalties for this type of behaviour at european union level. the proposal includes both minimum and maximum prison sentences and the possibility of sanctioning legal persons. a person found guilty of manipulating financial markets could, for example, receive a minimum sentence of four years in prison. we cannot forget the libor/euribor scandal, whereby a number of major banking institutions manipulated financial information in order to give a better picture of their credit situation and to win large sums of money. this false information has caused harm to consumers and investors and distorted the real economy. at the same time, given the serious consequences of the financial crisis and the current fragility of the european economic system, we cannot risk further destabilisation of markets. in this context, i believe that a single european regime of criminal sanctions in this area is necessary to discourage abuse in those member states which currently have less stringent rules and to ensure the proper functioning of the european internal market. we cannot let those bankers go unpunished who, through their irresponsible behaviour, are endangering the integrity of the financial system, risking to cause significant damage to the lives of millions of people. thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr president. i welcome the fact that we are debating and voting on this directive today and i would like to congratulate mrs mccarthy on both a complex and very well-drawn report and on all the work in the econ committee. five years after the start of the crisis, europe has learned a valuable lesson and is taking firm steps to regain lost confidence in its financial system. it has become a fact that market manipulation can cause widespread harm and affect the lives of millions of people. however, misuse of inside information will always exist in any type of market, regardless of its size and importance. in this context, coordinated and uniform efforts to discourage such practices are relevant. i believe that the outcome of the negotiations represents a reaffirmation of the european parliament's zero-tolerance policy on market abuse. at present, in several countries of the union, the sanctions for these offences are purely administrative. however, they have proven to be ineffective and insufficient for the seriousness and effects of such practices. citizens rightly feel that the lack of harmonised criminal sanctions creates an environment of immunity in which manipulators can thrive, taking advantage of a market without borders. market integrity is therefore a key condition for investor and consumer protection, in particular for economic recovery. in this respect, any behaviour which affects the proper functioning of these markets must be punished, and the sanctions proposed by the european parliament will certainly have a deterrent effect on such practices, all the more so as they represent only a minimum threshold. it is important that, in reaching final judgments, account be taken of the profit achieved but, above all, of the economic damage caused.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation because i consider it important to include greenland in the kimberley process certification scheme. greenland is included in the list of overseas countries and territories and, under the treaties, the purpose of our association with these regions is, among other things, to develop economic relations. however, this strengthening of eu-greenland economic cooperation is dependent on the region's ability to develop and diversify economically. in this context, it is important to support the participation of this area in the kimberley process with a view to facilitating the exploitation of the mining potential in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 as regards the inclusion of greenland in the implementation of the kimberley process certification scheme. the proposal aims to enable greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (kpcs) for rough diamonds through its cooperation with the eu. the mechanism provided for in the proposal would allow the import and export of rough diamonds between greenland and the union, as well as to other participants in the certification scheme, provided that all imports and exports of rough diamonds are verified and, in the case of exports, certified by the union authorities in accordance with the rules laid down in regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 implementing the kimberley process certification scheme for international trade in rough diamonds. the kimberley process is a joint initiative of governments, industry and civil society aimed at ending the trade in war diamonds rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance wars waged against legitimate governments. this proposal for a regulation is based on article 207 tfeu and concerns certain amendments to regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 necessary to allow greenland to be part of the eu certification scheme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of both moreira reports because i believe that the greenlandic economy will benefit from the decision to participate in the kimberley certification system - of course, provided that all imports and exports of rough diamonds are verified and, in the case of exports, certified by the union authorities. in addition, the involvement of civil society and industry is a good start to having a process based on integration, cooperation and effectiveness with greenland. last but not least, i believe that any country or territory that accepts and effectively implements the kimberley process rules should be welcomed into this system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision establishing rules and procedures to enable greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme. the eu participates in the system as a whole, including all 28 eu member states. the eu implements the kimberley process through the six union authorities. any shipment of rough diamonds imported into/exported from any eu member state will be sent to one of the union authorities for verification and only after that will it be sent back to its destination and released for free circulation within the eu. approximately 99.8% of the world's rough diamonds are produced by kimberley process participants, which means that an essential initial step for any country with diamond potential is to become part of the process, otherwise it cannot legally export rough diamonds. greenland is not a country, so it cannot become a participant in the kimberley process. this proposal for a council decision pursuant to article 203 tfeu establishes a specific regime for the movement of rough diamonds between greenland and the eu. it also stipulates that any trade in rough diamonds between a third country and greenland must be approved in advance by an eu authority.
in writing. - the migration from national credit transfer and direct debit systems to harmonised credit transfer (sct) and direct debit (sdd) systems is an important component of the process of completing a single euro payments area (sepa), in which no distinction is made between cross-border and national payments in euro. as there have been some difficulties during this transition process, i consider proposals to extend the transition period necessary for the completion of the single euro payments area to be legitimate. this measure is particularly important for the protection of smes and european consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and i consider that the amendment of the regulation in question is an important component in the process of achieving the single euro payments area. in addition, this is supported by the latest statistical data from the european central bank, which shows that the overall migration rate to the euro area increased from 59,87% in october 2013 to 64,1% in november 2013 for credit transfer transactions within the single euro payments area. however, i think it is important to note that the commission's outreach efforts to the competent authorities in the member states and efforts to promote sepa migration have not been effective, as smes, small governments and local authorities continue to be the least prepared for an effective migration.
in writing. - data on migration to sepa transfers in the euro area show an increase from 40% in june 2013 to around 64% in november 2013, while the overall migration rate to sepa direct debits reached only 26%. the delays in the statistics also indicate that several member states are behind schedule on the targets set for 1 february 2014. the coordination of migration activities still to be carried out is crucial to avoid flooding of payment systems. i therefore welcome the proposal that, among other things, a single transitional period should apply to both sepa transfers and sepa direct debits.
in writing. - i support the introduction of an additional period of 6 months for the transition of payment systems of banks and payment service providers in member states participating in the creation of a single euro payment area (sepa). by 1 february 2014, 17 countries were to replace their national credit transfer and direct debit systems with single systems in sepa. the current utilisation rate is around 64% for credit transfer in sepa and 26% for direct debit in sepa. ten member states recorded a double increase of between 10% and 15% in sepa transactions in the last quarter of 2013. i suggest that in the next 6 months the european central bank accelerate and complete the sepa migration process.
in writing. - regulation no 260/2012 is an important component of the process of completing a single euro payments area (sepa), in which no distinction is made between cross-border and national payments in euro. the main objective of regulation (eu) no 260/2012 is to migrate from national credit transfer and direct debit systems to harmonised sepa credit transfer (sct) and sepa direct debit (sdd) systems, inter alia by making available to union citizens a single international bank account number (iban) that can be used for all sepa credit transfer and direct debit transactions in euro. in the absence of full migration to sct and sdd, delays in those payments cannot be excluded, which would affect all payment service users and in particular smes and consumers. it is essential to avoid any disruption of payments caused by the fact that the migration to sepa is not fully completed by 1 february 2014. i argued that payment service providers could continue until 1 august 2014 to process euro payment transactions in formats other than those provided for credit transfers within sepa and direct debits within sepa.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption in plenary of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 260/2012 as regards the migration to union-wide credit transfer and direct debit operations; i voted for this report because it wants to introduce a transition period to allow the continuation of parallel processing of payments in different formats, i.e. to continue processing payment transactions through their traditional systems, in parallel with the use of sct and sdd systems. i also agree that such a temporary maintenance of traditional non-sepa compliant systems for another six months should be considered an exceptional measure, and that the shortest possible duration is necessary, given that a rapid and comprehensive migration is needed to realise all the benefits of an integrated payments market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation and i believe it is important that eu countries sign, ratify or accede to the cape town agreement. safe navigation is important from many points of view: the protection of human lives, the conservation of the environment and biodiversity or economic reasons. in this regard, safety rules on radio communications, fire protection, machinery and electrical equipment, as well as special requirements for maritime fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more, are welcome. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the importance of regular technical checks and inspections, which can prevent real disasters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to sign, ratify or accede to the cape town agreement of 2012 on the implementation of the provisions of the torremolinos protocol of 1993 relating to the torremolinos international convention for the safety of fishing vessels of 1977. the cape town agreement was adopted in october 2012 at a diplomatic conference organised by the international maritime organisation (imo). this agreement should allow the implementation of the torremolinos international convention for the safety of fishing vessels, signed in 1977, and its 1993 protocol, which never entered into force due to the fact that the protocol and the convention were ratified by an insufficient number of states. the cape town agreement aims to amend certain provisions of the torremolinos protocol which have given rise to certain difficulties in their implementation by a number of states with substantial fishing fleets. some flexibility has been introduced for existing ships in terms of the timing for the implementation of measures on radio communications, life-saving devices, emergency procedures, call and drills and on-board navigation equipment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i would like to mention that at the end of 2011, romania was among the countries with the fewest untransposed directives and the fewest infringement procedures. moreover, as in 2010, no proceedings were brought before the court of justice. it is clear that the former right-wing governments took their responsibilities seriously and tried to transpose european legislation as quickly and effectively as possible. i would like to see this trend continue in the years to come, even if the current power in bucharest does not seem very eager to respect even the most basic european democratic norms. this is all the more important as estimates show that over 70% of romanian legislation originates in brussels.
in writing. - the report analyses how the european commission, as the guarantor of the european treaties, exercises this fundamental quality and how this process can be improved. one of the most important solutions is the use of the right to petition by eu citizens, with the report highlighting areas where citizens complain of breaches of european law or mismatches between some provisions of national law and european law, but also the importance of the european parliament's specialised committees, and of the ep itself, as the authority tasked with monitoring how the european commission carries out its treaty-based duty.
in writing. - the correct application of european law is the sine qua non for the eu's credibility in the eyes of its citizens and businesses who need predictability to operate in the eu. incorrect and especially late transposition of directives is still a problem and i regret that the internal market is among the areas with the highest rate of non-compliance, all the more so as this legislation is often presented as a political priority given its potential to stimulate economic growth. it is surprising to see that member states sometimes give priority to certain european initiatives which, once adopted, are no longer a priority for the implementation phase. this approach is not serious and member states should give a little more importance to the transposition process at national level. i also support the idea of a procedural code for infringement procedures of european law, because so far these procedures are completely non-transparent and sometimes it is not very clear why the commission does not refer the case to the cjeu. there have been cases where the 'freezing' of proceedings was a political decision. however, i do not believe that such practices are compatible with the commission's role as 'guardian of the treaties'.
in writing. - it is important that member states respect the obligations arising from the treaties of accession and ensure the correct and full application of union law. according to data published by the commission, cases of delay in transposing european legislation have increased in recent years: from 531 cases in 2009 to 1 185 cases in 2011. in addition, in 2011, the court of justice in luxembourg delivered 62 judgments under article 258 tfeu, 85% of which were in favour of the commission and against member states that had not transposed european legislation. we need stronger tools to assess the effectiveness of member states' implementation of eu law. eu directives must be transposed correctly, fully and within the time limits set out in the directive. i support the creation of an online platform to be used by member states and the commission to clarify the factual and legal framework of issues related to the application of eu law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 29th annual report of the commission on the monitoring of the application of european union law. article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union defines the right to good administration as the right of every person to have his affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions. the annual report indicates that there has been an increase in delays in transposing european legislation in recent years (1 185 in 2011, 855 in 2010, 531 in 2009) and that the areas where most non-compliance has been reported are the environment (17%), the internal market (15%), transport (15%) and taxation (12%). the infringement procedure has two stages: the administrative (investigation) stage and the judicial stage, before the court of justice. in 2011, the percentage of infringement cases resolved before the opening of proceedings before the court of justice fell to 60,4% from 88% in 2010. we believe it is essential to continue to monitor closely the actions of member states, taking into account that some petitions to parliament and some complaints to the commission concern issues that persist even after the closure of a case.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decision of 4 february 2014 on the application for the defence of the privileges and immunities of ms lara comi, by which it is decided to defend the privileges and immunities of ms lara comi. lara comi, member of the european parliament, sought to have her immunity upheld in relation to a document instituting proceedings before the general court, served on her on 1 october 2013, seeking compensation for damage allegedly caused by words which she had spoken during a political debate on television. article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, to which ms comi expressly refers in her defence, provides that members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of investigation, detention or prosecution on account of opinions or votes expressed in the course of their duties. the court of justice has also recognised that an express statement by a member who is not a member of the european parliament may constitute an express opinion in the exercise of his functions within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol, taking into account not the place where the statement was made but its nature and content.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of zbigniew ziobro. the prosecutor of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr zbigniew ziobro, in connection with the legal proceedings concerning an alleged offence. parliament may decide whether immunity should be waived in a particular case. parliament may take reasonable account of the position of the member concerned in its decision on whether or not to waive his immunity. the alleged offence has no direct or obvious connection with the performance by mr zbigniew ziobro of his duties as a member of the european parliament and does not constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i voted to waive the immunity of zbigniew ziobro because a decision not to waive the immunity of the deputy would prevent the other party from bringing legal proceedings in his defence.
in writing. - although i voted in favour of the report, i must point out that the adoption of the regulation in its current form risks creating legal uncertainty and increasing the risk of fraud. we all want to simplify administrative and bureaucratic procedures for european citizens, but this cannot be done at any cost and ultimately at the expense of the citizens' own interests. i believe that following the negotiations with the council, it will be necessary to clarify what kind of documents in the real estate sector will be subject to simplified conformity certification procedures. the ultimate objective must remain to guarantee a climate of legal certainty for european citizens.
in writing. - the commission proposal provides that the regulation is applicable only to formalities relating to certain official documents, in particular civil status documents. the need to define the scope precisely is important and the current delimitation of the scope is too restrictive. citizens often report problems with the acceptance of official documents, which are not limited to civil status documents, although many problems arise in this context in particular. the reduction of additional cross-border formalities is an important measure to facilitate the free movement of citizens. the proposal can be considered a great step forward for european citizens. this eliminates excessive bureaucracy and gives meaning to the principle of mutual trust. fees for citizens and businesses will be reduced and at the same time a system of mutual assistance is established to better prevent fraud. the introduction of multilingual eu standard forms will simplify the lives of citizens and businesses active transnationally and help reduce red tape.
in writing. - the regulation we voted for aims to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain official documents in the european union. this legislative text is a first step towards a reform of crossborder formalities, which is necessary given that over 14 million eu citizens live in member states other than their own. the new provisions concern the waiver of certification for conformity, apostille authentication, certified copies and certified translations. at the same time, the introduction of multilingual standard forms for the most common situations (such as civil status and study documents) will reduce excessive bureaucracy and fees for citizens. as this is a field of application which is so far limited, i support the idea of extending the scope of the elimination of additional formalities. in a common economic and legal framework, mutual recognition of acts without further formalities should become a general rule applicable. it is in the interest of the citizens and the economy. and last but not least, it is an application of the principle of mutual trust which must govern the single european area.
in writing. - simplifying the acceptance of certain official documents between member states was one of the priorities supported by parliament in the stockholm programme and i consider it to be absolutely necessary progress in encouraging the free movement of citizens. the complicated and costly administrative formalities due to the apostille and legalised children often hinder free movement or leave a bitter taste in the mouths of those who nevertheless decide to settle in another member state. obviously, this does not mean that there should no longer be legal requirements to guarantee the authenticity of documents relating to the legal status of the person. however, i believe that simplified procedures and more effective administrative cooperation between national authorities through the internal market information system can guarantee mutual trust between the authorities of the member states. as regards the categories of public documents covered by this regulation, there are indeed certain documents such as purchase and sale agreements, marriage contracts or other more complex acts which presuppose the agreement of the will and which require the prior examination of legality by the notary public. for this reason, i supported amending the regulation to remove its application to complex acts and limit it to extracts from public registers.
in writing. - the proposal aims to overcome a serious obstacle that citizens who move across borders have to face. an increasing number of eu citizens live in a member state which is not their own and have to face difficulties and delays in the acceptance of certain public documents. the commission’s proposal was strengthened by the rapporteur with significant points, of which i will underline two: an increase in the number of public documents covered by the proposal, for example documents relating to immigration status and health, including recognised disability; and the introduction of additional multilingual eu forms for cross-border use, for example for educational certificates. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - according to data published by eurostat, 12.8 million union citizens were living in a state other than their home state in 2011. administrative practices in the member states are often additional bureaucratic obstacles to the free movement of union citizens. the introduction of standard forms in several languages for citizens moving to another member state will reduce cross-border formalities, public costs and human costs. i support the commission's proposal to use the internal market information system as an instrument of administrative cooperation to simplify administrative procedures, to avoid fraud attempts and to eliminate excessive bureaucracy. an impact study by the european commission predicts a cost reduction of around €75-100 million if this system were used in all member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i believe that it is an important step in combating the bureaucracy that affects european citizens. the more than 14 million europeans currently living in a member state other than the one in which they were born, the millions of mixed families, the millions of children from these families have the right to have simple procedures, reduced to the minimum necessary, in their daily administrative procedures. i also believe that the union and the member states must make the fight against bureaucracy a permanent mission in all areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the promotion of freedom of movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain official documents. the scope of this regulation covers certain official documents drawn up by the authorities of the member states and having formal probative value. simplifying the acceptance of those categories of official documents between member states should bring tangible benefits to citizens and companies or other undertakings in the union. given their different legal nature, documents drawn up by private persons should be excluded from the scope of this regulation. documents drawn up by authorities of third countries should also be excluded from its scope. the scope of this regulation should not include documents containing an agreement between two or more parties. this regulation does not alter the substantive law of the member states as regards the various legal acts and the legal status of natural or legal persons. it also lays down multilingual union standard forms on legal acts and the legal status of natural or legal persons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that there was a need to harmonise the five legislative acts in this area. although the amendments are technical in nature, they open the way to a comprehensive revision of the legislation on the protection of workers at the workplace. for them to be highly productive, they need safe working conditions. the most vulnerable group, i believe, is pregnant women, who should not be exposed to some potentially dangerous substances. aligning eu legislation to ghs can enhance the safety of workers at work.
in writing. - health and safety standards should not be considered as constraints as they are fundamental rights and should be applied without exception in all areas of the labour market and to all types of enterprises, regardless of their size. in view of ongoing technological progress, the five directives need to be reviewed periodically to ensure consistent legislation and an adequate level of protection of health and safety when dangerous chemical substances and mixtures are present in the working environment. additional attention should be paid to employees in occupations where there is daily contact with substances and mixtures, often without adequate protection. young people should be protected in particular from activities that present risks of injury which they are not supposed to be able to identify or prevent because of their lack of awareness of safety aspects or their lack of experience or training. the social partners have a key role to play in this area, and they consider that explanatory guidance on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures is useful and necessary, especially for smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directives 92/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/ec, 98/24/ec and 2004/37/ec to align them with regulation no 1272/2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. pursuant to article 153 of the treaty, the european parliament and the council may adopt, by means of directives, minimum requirements to encourage improvements, in particular in the working environment, with a view to ensuring a higher level of protection of the health and safety of workers. i believe that these directives must avoid hindering the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and their potential to create jobs. health and safety rules are fundamental rights and should be applied without exception in all areas of the labour market and in all types of undertakings, irrespective of their size. the amendments are necessary to ensure that those directives remain effective. in view of continuing technological progress, those directives should be subject to periodic review in accordance with article 17a of council directive 89/391/eec in order to ensure consistency of legislation and an adequate level of protection of health and safety when dangerous chemical substances and mixtures are present in the working environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because more and more musical works are being marketed on the internet and copyright management needed to be better regulated at union level. i believe that, once the directive is adopted, multi-territorial licensing will be easier and bring more benefits to artists. at the same time, regulating the functioning of collective management companies will lead to more transparency in the field, thus avoiding fraud. we all know that piracy causes billions of dollars in damage and job losses every year. and in romania, the phenomenon is very widespread, unfortunately, and the most affected is the music industry. i believe that the proposed measures will benefit both consumers, who will have wider and cheaper access to music productions, and copyright holders.
in writing. - the issue of copyright and related rights and the issue of multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use must be settled as soon as possible by a single regulatory framework, both to protect the interests of authors who rightly demand faster time limits and more transparent procedures for securing their works and to allow consumers access to a market governed by clear rules allowing them to access content freely, in compliance with copyright. this regulation, which i voted in favour of, has the ambitious aim of finally proposing a single framework on this subject, capable of meeting the challenges of a global market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european strategy on copyright and related rights and multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use. i believe that there is a need for a proper approach to the issue of copyright in european law and that we need a new perspective on the use of musical works online, as the dissemination of copyright and related rights-protected content and related services, including books, audiovisual works and musical recordings, requires licensing by different copyright and related rights holders, such as authors, performers, producers and publishers. the choice between individual or collective management of rights normally lies with the rightholders. the management of copyright and related rights includes the licensing of users, the auditing of licensing entities and the monitoring of the use of rights, the enforcement of copyright and related rights, the collection of revenues generated from the exploitation of rights and the distribution of amounts due to rightholders.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european union has identified viable solutions for the european digital market, especially with regard to musical works, whose regulation was inadequate in the context of the digital society we live in. the compromise reached by the vote in the european parliament's plenary is one that has wide support and will bring major benefits to the european economy. the collective management directive has two main objectives: to improve the transparency of collective management organisations through stricter rules on reporting obligations and control by rightholders, and to create a genuine digital single market for musical works. this legal framework underlines the important social and cultural role that collective management organisations play as promoters of cultural diversity. the new rules will benefit content creators, who will receive their payments faster and have a clearer idea of the payment flows generated by their work. i believe that the directive will have a positive impact on the digital single market by facilitating the online licensing of musical works throughout the union, which could stimulate the creation of new innovative cross-border services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use in the internal market. the purpose of the directive is to lay down requirements applicable to collective management organisations to ensure high standards of governance, financial management, transparency and reporting. they support the need for member states to ensure that collective management organisations act in the interest of the rightholders whose rights they represent and do not impose on them obligations that are not objectively necessary for the protection of their rights and interests or for the effective management of their rights. rightholders should also be entitled to authorise, at their choice, a collective management organisation to manage their rights, categories of rights or types of works and other subject matter of their choice, for the territories of their choice, irrespective of the member state of nationality, residence or establishment of the collective management organisation or the rightholders. they argue that right holders should have the right to license non-commercial uses of any rights, categories of rights or types of works and other protected subject matter that they choose.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the draft legislative resolution on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation as it will contribute to combating insider dealing and market manipulation practices as well as to enhancing investor confidence and market integrity. the regulations adopted aim to introduce extended liability of legal persons into national systems. provisions allowing for the criminal prosecution and application of sanctions against market abuse are an important step towards strengthening the tools to combat abusive behaviour in the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the integrity of our financial markets is essential to restoring sustainable economic growth in europe. investor and consumer confidence in markets is essential to this and without it europe will not progress. not all national competent authorities have a set of powers to ensure appropriate sanctions for market abuse. the usefulness of this directive is therefore indisputable. the definition of the most serious forms of market abuse as criminal offences sends a clear message: the competent authorities take these unacceptable practices seriously and sanction them in proportion to the damage caused.
in writing. - the report by mr mccarthy deals with criminal sanctions in cases of insider dealing and market manipulation. i believe that this is an important and necessary regulatory intervention, especially when we consider that the sanctions currently in place to combat such abuses are not sufficiently effective in some member states and are not very effective in deterring them. the report calls for the introduction of effective criminal sanctions (imprisonment of at least four years) for insider trading, market manipulation and aiding and abetting such offences.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a directive on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. recent cases, such as the manipulation of the libor index in the uk, make it very clear that millions of citizens across the european union are vulnerable to market manipulation. very often, false information is thrown into the press with the aim of manipulating exchange rates, stock market benchmarks, interbank interest rates, or credit market interest rates. we can no longer turn a blind eye to such speculation! let us not forget that the root cause of the economic crisis was financial problems. or, the way out of the crisis is also linked to the confidence that investors and the general public have in financial markets. i think that a directive imposing criminal sanctions on those who manipulate the market is welcome. as you know, the sanctions currently in force in the member states are weak and heterogeneous. we need uniform and severe sanction systems against financial crime. only then can we restore and defend the integrity of the eu's financial markets. to that end, competent authorities should have the necessary resources to detect and investigate market abuse.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation, which adopts the ep's position at first reading. in view of the consequences of the financial crisis, it has become clear that market manipulation has the potential to cause widespread harm to the lives of millions of people. the recent libor scandal, which highlighted a serious case of benchmark manipulation, has demonstrated that relevant problems and gaps in this area have a major impact on market confidence and can lead to considerable losses for investors and distortions in the real economy. the absence of a common regime of criminal sanctions at union level gives rise to market abuse in member states with less stringent regimes. in addition, the imposition of criminal sanctions for market abuse offences will have a stronger deterrent effect on potential offenders. this directive establishes minimum rules on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and illegal disclosure of inside information and market manipulation in order to guarantee the integrity of financial markets in the union and to enhance investor protection and confidence in those markets.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation; i voted in favour of this report, convinced that to get out of the financial crisis and to respond to the challenges facing capital and financial markets, where a new bubble can form at any time, a single european sanctions regime is needed for individuals and for firms that manipulate capital markets or provide confidential information, contrary to the law. eu rules in this sector, which provide for minimum sentences of up to four years in prison for those found guilty, will lead to a return of confidence in financial markets. the clear rules will also help courts in all 28 member states when they are dealing with cases of market manipulation.
in writing. - in the light of the eu's europe 2020 targets, increasing energy efficiency is essential. i therefore consider that the proposal to inform the european commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union is a timely one, and that it contributes to the achievement of the objectives set. these changes have the potential to respond to new energy challenges and to give the european commission the opportunity to come up with proposals to increase competitiveness in the energy sector. the new procedures envisaged are also necessary precisely to allow the investment framework in this sector to be made more efficient.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and i think it is appropriate to maintain the provisions of the previous regulation. the obligation for member states to notify the commission every two years of data and information on investment projects in the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas or electricity is useful in many ways. for example, the connecting europe facility needs all this information in order to correctly identify investment needs or to coordinate and develop the field of energy infrastructure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union and replacing regulation (eu, euratom) no 617/2010 adopting the european parliament's position at first reading. the new energy context requires significant investment in all types of infrastructure, across all energy sectors, and in the development of new types of infrastructure and new technologies to be adopted by the market. the liberalisation of the energy sector and the further integration of the internal market give economic operators a more prominent role in investment. at the same time, new public policy requirements, such as fuel mix targets, will change member states' public policies towards new and/or upgraded energy infrastructure. this regulation establishes a common framework for the notification to the commission of data and information relating to investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, natural gas, electricity, including electricity from renewable sources and energy from coal and lignite, and cogeneration of electricity and useful heat sectors, as well as investment projects in the production of biofuels and the capture, transport and storage of carbon dioxide generated by those sectors.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption in plenary of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the eu; we voted for this new regulation as a further step towards strengthening the common energy market. its main objective is to ensure that the commission is regularly and accurately informed about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure so that it can fulfil its energy tasks. in this way, the identification of future potential supply and demand imbalances and investment obstacles will be easier to achieve. last but not least, the new regulation complements the connecting europe facility in identifying investment needs in energy infrastructure with a view to achieving the internal energy market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the nomination of klaus-heiner lehne as a member of the court of auditors. mr lehne's 20 years of experience as a member of the european parliament, as well as his holding of responsible posts such as chairman of the committee on legal affairs and chairman of the conference of committee chairmen, coupled with his deep legal background, make him, in my view, the best candidate for this post.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision to give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint klaus-heiner lehne as a member of the court of auditors. in accordance with article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of the external financial control institutions in their state or who possess specific qualifications for that office. they shall provide all guarantees of independence. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the council, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members drawn up in accordance with the proposals made by each member state. the term of office of the members of the court of auditors may be renewed. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, taking into account in particular the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. also, during its meeting of 23 january 2014, the committee on budgetary control heard the candidate nominated by the council to be a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the future role of the european court is particularly important, given its role in helping to improve the financial management of the union by acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of citizens. the european court of auditors shall provide assurances as to the veracity of the accounts and the legality of the transactions and their entry in the accounts in any given financial year, in which independence, integrity, impartiality and professionalism are crucial. last but not least, i too find it inconvenient that certain appointment procedures have led to conflicts between parliament and the council over the candidates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the future role of the european court of auditors appointment of the members of the court of auditors: consultation of the european parliament. the european court of auditors was set up by the 1975 budget treaty to audit the eu's finances. as the eu's external auditor, it contributes to improving the financial management of the union by acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of eu citizens. the european court of auditors, as a professional audit institution, is required to apply, inter alia, international auditing standards applicable to the public sector. we consider that, as the external auditor for the union institutions, the european court of auditors can provide the legislative bodies with not only a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts, but also as to the legality of the operations and their entry in the accounts in any given budgetary year. it is also in an eminent position to provide the legislative body and the budgetary authority, in particular parliament's committee on budgetary control, with valuable advice on the results achieved by union policies, to improve the performance and effectiveness of union-funded activities, to identify economies of scale and scope as well as spill-over effects between member states' national policies and to provide parliament with external assessments of the commission's assessments of public finances in the member states.
thank you, mr president. i voted in favour of the report because the parliaments of the member states have an important say in the drafting of european legislation, and this is clear evidence of the transparency of decision-making procedures in the european union. on the other hand, some national parliaments have not understood the spirit of these provisions of the union treaties. i give you the example of the chamber of deputies in romania, which last year gave a negative opinion on the proposal to establish the european public prosecutor's office. i suppose the majority of socialists are afraid that such an institution might reveal possible irregularities in procurement procedures carried out with european funds. i say this because the reasoning for this opinion is not coherent and does not clearly explain why this proposal was considered to infringe the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it underlines once again that the european institutions must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union and in protocol no 2 to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which are of a general nature and impose obligations on the institutions in the exercise of the union's competences, except that the principle of subsidiarity does not apply in those areas which fall within the union's exclusive competence. at the same time, the report strengthens the role of the european institutions, such as the scrutiny exercised by the ep but also by national parliaments, the power of the court of justice to check the legality of legislative acts, the role of the european commission as the guardian of compliance with the treaties and all community legislation, etc.
in writing. - there is no doubt that smart regulation is an essential tool to better regulate the different general and local needs, to reduce administrative burdens and to simplify the application and legal certainty throughout the european union. the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making is now inadequate in relation to the current legislative context, as generated by the treaty of lisbon, and further steps are therefore needed to improve the legislative process and the adequacy of eu regulation, in full respect of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. - union rules must be simple, clear and effective, accessible in all official languages and with a clear added value. according to a eurobarometer survey published in spring 2013, 24% of citizens in the member states identify the union with the concept of bureaucracy. in addition, 74% of them believe that eu legislation creates even more red tape in their own countries. these percentages are worrying and need to be reduced. we need to change the way we legislate through coordinated action by the union, national institutions and local and regional authorities. relations between the european institutions and national and local authorities must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. we need to provide citizens with clear legislation that is easy to understand and does not involve any unnecessary administrative burden. i support the renegotiation of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and its binding legal force.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on eu regulatory adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality 19th report on better lawmaking for 2011. we consider that the impact assessment of new regulations on smes or large companies can neither have the effect of discriminating against workers on the basis of the size of the companies where they work, nor affect the fundamental rights of workers, which include the right to information and consultation, working conditions, well-being at work and their social security rights, nor prevent the improvement of the protection they enjoy at work with regard to existing occupational risks or some new risks. i argue that legislation proposed and adopted at european level should be simple, effective and efficient, provide clear added value, be easy to understand and accessible in all the official languages of the member states, and provide maximum benefits at minimum costs. i argue that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality must be respected by the european institutions in the legislative process. we call on the commission to come forward with concrete proposals to reduce the overall regulatory burden in the eu without undermining health and safety at work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 1 - rejecting the original motion for a resolution - and i regret that this replacement motion was rejected. i voted against amendment no 2 and i also regret that it was adopted, which means that the alternative motion for a resolution, which is at least as objectionable as the original motion for a resolution, has been adopted. i do not think it appropriate for parliament to oblige member states by such a vote to respect all forms of family recognised in the legislation of other member states, to recognise same-sex marriages, to approve marches by same-sex couples or to review existing laws restricting freedom of expression in relation to sexual orientation. this last point is to allow and encourage proselytism, which is unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted against the adoption of the report on the eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity - lunacek report. i am a strong advocate of human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, as laid down in the text of the lisbon treaty, but the complex issue of lgbt communities must be addressed at the level of each of the european societies (as such in each member state) in accordance with the specific cultural and social contexts. i also believe that a number of the recommendations in the report go beyond the eu's remit, even proposing to intervene in areas that are strictly within the remit of the member states. at the same time, i believe that the way the report has been drafted would give the commission new powers, bypassing the european parliament.
thank you, mr president. i voted in favour of the report because, with the transposition of the unfair commercial practices directive in the member states, crossborder purchases have increased. it is therefore important that the full and uniform application of this directive is continuously monitored. moreover, the penalties should never be less than the gain achieved by the unfair or deceptive practices. such measures would certainly discourage those who resort to various means of distorting competition. in addition, it would increase the confidence of consumers and traders in transactions on the internal market. i welcome the epp's efforts to combat hidden and misleading advertising. this practice is growing, especially online, and the commission needs to take a proactive approach to internet commerce.
in writing. - the european parliament has spoken on several occasions on the subject of unfair commercial practices, in the sense of greater protection for quality products and for the purchasing awareness of european consumers. i voted against this report today, and in particular against some of the amendments in the proposal, which were not convincing and did not seem to be really effective in pursuing the objectives of the existing legislative framework.
in writing. - the approximately 500 million european citizens are the engine of growth for the union, and it is therefore important to ensure a high level of protection for them against risks and threats that they cannot prevent as individuals. the internal market plays a central role in addressing the current economic challenges facing the union, but consumer confidence in this system needs to be increased. greater consumer protection would support the growth and competitiveness ambitions of the europe 2020 strategy by ensuring a higher level of consumer welfare, by shifting to more sustainable consumption patterns, and by taking into account the specific situation of consumers. it is necessary that union law is applied uniformly and correctly in the union. the application of directive 2005/29/ec needs to be closely monitored and training sessions for actors in the judiciary needed to ensure that the directive is implemented in all member states. it is regrettable that only four of the 28 member states have implemented the directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of directive 2005/29/ec on unfair commercial practices. the rights enjoyed by consumers in europe are still unknown to some businesses, in particular small businesses, and to many consumers. it is necessary to strengthen the role of consumer associations and to give them the opportunity to strengthen their capacities. a growing number of complaints from users of internet ticketing websites claim to have been victims of so-called 'ip tracking', whereby the price is artificially increased according to the interest shown by users through several similar searches. we call on the commission to determine the extent of this practice, which leads to unfair competition and constitutes an unfair use of users' personal data, and, if appropriate, to come forward with appropriate legislative proposals to protect users' interests. i believe that it is particularly important for consumers to have access to effective, fast and inexpensive redress. we call on member states to fully implement the directive on alternative dispute resolution and on out-of-court online dispute resolution.
thank you, mr president. the efficiency of the judicial system in civil, commercial and administrative matters plays a very important role in the functioning of the economy, the private environment and investment. the european union justice scoreboard is a very useful assessment in this regard, looking at how effective the justice system in each eu member state is in resolving civil, commercial and administrative cases. i'll give you the example of romania, which is 13th in terms of time to resolve non-criminal cases and second to last in terms of time to resolve insolvency cases. i believe that there are a number of key factors for the efficiency of judicial systems, including the exchange of experience and good practices, as well as the use of ict (information and communication technology) systems. for example, the immediate benefits of computerised application and case management tools are cost reduction and, above all, the acceleration of judicial procedures. thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr president. i voted in favour of the report because access to an independent judiciary helps to increase confidence in the authorities of the member states. after accession to the union, romania has made progress in judicial reform, despite political pressure, and i am referring in particular to the current socialist government. although the executive tried to put pressure on magistrates or to amend the criminal legislation in such a way as to ensure its privileges and immunities, these attempts failed. the most recent example is from december 2013, when, without any public debate whatsoever, parliamentarians granted super-immunity to themselves and local barons. the justice scoreboard could therefore be extended to other aspects of the functioning of the rule of law to put pressure on those who violate the values of european democracy.
in writing. - the report summarises a number of features of national judicial systems, which are the result of the traditions and specificity of each member state. each judicial system must therefore be analysed in the light of those characteristics, the mere use of statistical parameters being insufficient, the historical, social, economic and constitutional traditions of each member state being essential. following the publication by the european commission of the eu justice scoreboard, the report highlights the importance of cross-border cooperation between judicial authorities, training programmes for judges and other stakeholders in the system, drawing attention, not least, to the essential role of justice in people's lives and of eu justice in the lives of europeans.
in writing. - i supported this report because i am convinced that the justice scoreboard is a tool that can improve the performance of eu judicial systems through the exchange of good practice. there are, however, certain details regarding the methodology which the commission should take into account. in particular, i refer to the comparability of data for civil and common law judicial systems and the relevance of the indicators on the basis of which the independence and effectiveness of the judicial system are analysed. i also believe that we need to promote more mediation and other alternative ways of resolving disputes both in the commercial sphere and in family law disputes, which will allow for the streamlining of judicial activity and the reduction of costs by eliminating from the courts cases that can be resolved without the intervention of the judge. finally, i also supported the idea of involving parliament in this exercise, as in the past it has called for a wider area of the scoreboard to be covered, including issues such as the rule of law and human rights, which are not in the current scoreboard but are monitored only for the countries covered by the cvm.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote on the eu justice scoreboard justice in civil and administrative matters in the member states. the eu justice scoreboard compares national systems using certain indicators, but does not present an overall ranking of national legal systems and focuses exclusively on civil, commercial and administrative justice. i voted for the oral amendment to amendment no 1, which calls on the commission, in consultation with the european parliament, to continue its work on this exercise in accordance with the treaties and in consultation with the member states, while also taking into account the need to avoid unnecessary overlap with the work of other bodies. as this amendment was rejected, i abstained from the final vote on the eu justice scoreboard civil and administrative justice in the member states.
thank you, mr president. i voted in favour of the report because the union's energy security can also be ensured by innovative action in this area. we need new production and consumption models to guarantee a stable and secure energy supply that is accessible to all citizens. i'll give you an example that could be implemented in many countries, including romania: micro-hydroelectric plants. they are a smart solution and could even help reduce unemployment in some areas. it is important to note that the renewable energy sector has coped with the current economic crisis without major problems and in some countries, such as romania, has developed considerably in recent years. public investment in smart energy systems, including through the structural funds, represents major opportunities for my country.
in writing. - the european union needs a paradigm shift in both energy production and the structure of energy consumption by supporting the transition to sustainable energy. the wider use of renewable energy in europe also implies the development of smart grids. i believe that investment in information technology and in the research and development sector is necessary for the expansion of smart grids which in turn generate efficiency in energy production, distribution and consumption. last but not least, i believe that the development of smart grids in this area will contribute in the long term to a decrease in the price of energy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the electricity grid: we all use it, we recognise its usefulness and we are aware that our life would be almost impossible without electricity. few people know that the electrical grid works today similar to the way it was thought to work almost 100 years ago. without deviating from the norm, electrical grids around the world have so far served only the primary purpose for which they were designed. progress, however, is not possible without abstracting, for a moment, from limits. smart grids aim to transform electricity grids from simple electricity transmission lines into networks that facilitate continuous communication between all those connected to them. this type of grid is now a global priority, because it saves money by immediately detecting potential power leaks or failures, protects the grid against attacks and power outages, introduces alternative forms of electricity generation and thus significantly reduces co2 emissions.
in writing. - all european citizens, regardless of where they live, have the right to a stable and constant supply of energy at an affordable price. in the context of increasingly important climate and socioeconomic changes, the european union has set itself the goal of increasing the share of energy from renewable sources, but to achieve this it needs to combine smart infrastructure and appropriate storage methods, which will allow stabilizing energy prices and benefiting, in particular, the poorer regions of the union. such regions can reduce their dependency on conventional energy sources by encouraging the development of research and development, energy storage, energy consumption and energy saving. i believe that openness and transparency between local authorities, businesses, industry, local communities and citizens can lead to results that benefit everyone, especially when smart infrastructure is centred on a smart energy system, as part of a smarter global regional plan, and also includes related sectors such as transport, housing and urban planning.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the local and regional consequences of the development of smart grids. i would stress that the deployment of smart grids requires a stable and long-term oriented policy framework. we invite the commission to propose ambitious 2030 targets, policies and objectives for energy efficiency and renewable energy, as well as for greenhouse gas emissions, in order to provide greater future certainty for investors and related sectors and to facilitate the introduction of a smart energy system. call for cooperation at european, national and regional level in the development of smart grids as they offer a unique opportunity to encourage innovation, research and development, job creation and the competitiveness of european industry at local and regional level, especially with regard to smes. i stress the importance of initiatives such as the covenant of mayors, the main european movement involving local and regional authorities in tackling climate change, which is based on a voluntary commitment by signatories to meet and exceed the eu's 20% co2 reduction target by increasing energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources, and which support and sustain the efforts of local authorities in implementing sustainable energy policies.
thank you, mr president. i voted for the report on small farms because of the importance of this subject and also because of the following: the report contains the amendment i initiated in committee on the maintenance of the major differences between agricultural subsidies to the detriment of the new member states. today, parliament has thus adopted a clear position on this subject. the report also contains the amendment by which we in the committee drew attention to the pressure on agricultural land in the new member states following the liberalisation of the land market. small farmers will be hard hit by these pressures and need measures that make them want to keep and work the land, not sell it. unfortunately, instead of such measures, the governments of many of the member states, such as the socialist government in romania, prefer to destroy small farmers with huge taxes and levies. thank you. thank you.
in writing. - the prosperity of europe's rural areas depends in many cases on the work of small farms, which provide the livelihoods of millions of eu citizens. unfortunately, the number of small farms is decreasing, which also creates an imbalance in the conservation of traditions, customs and rural landscapes. measures are therefore needed to take account of the specific needs of small family farms and to allow for the sustainable development of rural areas, especially as in times of crisis the number of people returning to the countryside and starting to work in this profession is increasing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on my own initiative, which raises a serious issue which, in my view, does not receive enough attention in the common agricultural policy: the future of small farms. these small farms face continuous demographic, commercial and technological pressure and romania is home to the largest number of small and subsistence farms in the european union. a solution to be considered could be for small farms to pool several types of production and activities, following the model of small enterprises in other economic sectors.
in writing. - as farming is a strategic activity, in order to solve the problems of small farms, not only the two pillars of the cap must play a key role, but also the eu's cohesion policy, which must finance the necessary infrastructure for small farms in rural areas and, with the help of the european social fund, social measures on employment, social inclusion, training and education.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the future of small farms. depopulation and rural exodus severely damage rural living conditions and therefore the quality of life and working conditions of farmers, and are often a determining factor in whether small farms are maintained or abandoned. creating sustainable prospects in rural areas, especially for young people, is decisive for the future of small farms. in some areas, the existence and survival of small farms provides sources of income and limits depopulation. we again draw attention to the major differences between agricultural subsidies in the different member states, which are to the detriment of the new member states. we call for more free advice to be tailored to the needs of small farms, for procedures to be simplified for information, education, risk assessment and health monitoring, for information campaigns to be launched, for best practices to be shared on the short food supply chain. we also ask for technical support for the submission of eu funding applications and for advisory services to help small farms to adapt the profile of their production activity to their ecological and production potential.
thank you, mr president. i voted for the resolution because we need related rights, we need multi-territorial licensing for the rights to works. moreover, i believe that online trade has increased recently. let us not forget that in some countries over 70% of trade takes place online, and this trade also entails a number of risks. i believe that many governments are not prepared at the moment to counter such phenomena and i believe that the european commission, together with the european parliament and the council, must come together to make proposals to all governments, especially since we are talking about a common market, a transfer of goods, capital and personnel from one country to another and that qualified and unqualified staff are nowadays obtained on the internet. i ask the european commission to get more involved and invest in developing strategies to do this. thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr president. i voted in favour of the report because electronic commerce will continue to develop in the coming years. i therefore believe that a more active approach is needed at union level. the potential of the sector must be harnessed to create jobs and strengthen the single market. the quality of delivery services is directly proportional to the satisfaction and trust of consumers. i say this because i, too, buy products very often on the internet and i expect them to be delivered in the best conditions and as quickly as possible. the commission has also found that the return policy of the united kingdom is not in line with the requirements of the return directive. thank you. thank you.
in writing. - e-commerce is one of the sectors of the european economy which has seen a significant rise in the last decade. the expansion of this sector contributes not only to the development of the tertiary sector of european economies but also to the development of the single market as a whole. as 57% of traders consider cross-border delivery to be a barrier to business, i believe that the proposals in this report help to reduce the barriers to development in this area. the development of a free and competitive market in the delivery sector is also an opportunity for smes to develop and create new jobs, which are so needed at this time in europe.
in writing. - the e-commerce market is evolving rapidly and generating increasing demands both in terms of innovative solutions for businesses and in terms of consumer expectations. the delivery requirements of the sector are increasingly diverse due to the increasing number of product segments covered, whose value, weight and packaging size differ. in turn, social networks, real-time information technologies and the widespread use of mobile and portable devices have led consumers to become more demanding and to demand delivery modes based on real-time information and a multitude of options. the commercial and more generally economic relations between e-commerce operators and consumers are characterised by a number of complex logistical operations. delivery involves the transport of physical goods ordered online to the final delivery point, where they reach the final customer. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to create or maintain a dominant position in the union market.
in writing. - this report is part of a wider initiative by the commission for the internal market and consumer protection to support the development of e-commerce, which has significant potential for economic growth, which is so needed in this time of crisis. many consumers do not even consider online shopping simply because delivery is too expensive, too complex or because they fear that they will not receive their package. in romania, for example, only 11% of internet users made their purchases online in 2012. in turn, businesses, in particular smes, are prevented from expanding into other member states due to high delivery costs and the lack of a level playing field with larger businesses that have bargaining power with delivery operators. all of this deprives smes and consumers alike of the benefits of the internal market. to boost online trade, we therefore need a series of measures proposed in this report that would foster the emergence of a european market for deliveries. integrated traceability systems, increased transparency for smes and convergence on labelling are just some of these measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on an integrated market for parcel delivery services for the development of e-commerce in the eu. we believe that in order to establish an integrated parcel delivery market, it is important to have a stable and coherent social dimension, where delivery services must respect labour rights, working and remuneration conditions and social and environmental standards. we believe that the development of cross-border online commerce depends on customer confidence and that the establishment of a european network of national solvit competence centres and a rapex-type alert system to detect fraudulent websites would be likely to alleviate consumer concerns. we call on the commission to work with businesses to adopt european standards on address and labelling, as well as standards on mailboxes suitable for e-commerce. complicated vat provisions represent a significant obstacle for small enterprises trading cross-border. we invite the commission to present as soon as possible its proposal for the introduction of a uniform vat return.
in writing. - i voted for the report on an integrated market for parcel delivery services for the development of e-commerce in the eu because of its provisions on the sme sector. the rapporteur argues that smes are the fundamental building blocks of the eu economy, stressing that if europe is to harness the growth potential of the digital single market, it is imperative to put in place the right framework conditions to encourage smes to grow and expand across the union. i also agree that smes are particularly dependent on the availability of the logistics sector for low-cost and advantageous delivery solutions to meet consumer expectations. in this context, i welcome the concern of the rapporteur to encourage the development of interoperable and cost-effective solutions to meet the needs of consumers and also of businesses.
in writing. - the history of the eu is closely linked to the coal and steel production sector. in addition to the symbolic dimension of the steel industry, we are talking about a key sector for the development of the automotive industry, the construction sector, the mechanical and electrical engineering sector and, last but not least, the renewable energy sector. increased investment in this area to prevent further relocation of steel production outside europe is a necessity. we are talking about jobs that depend on the smooth functioning of the eu steel sector worldwide. i support the measures provided for in this motion for a resolution. once implemented, they will help the steel industry to overcome the problems generated by the economic and financial crisis and will help to find resources and investments for the creation of an innovative steel industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the eu is the second largest steel producer in the world and maintaining this position must be an important objective in european policies. moreover, a coherent policy of developing industrial production would have the capacity to generate a considerable number of jobs, but also sustainable economic growth. they also consider that coordination with environmental and energy policies is vital to avoid creating a difficult or uncompetitive business environment in the domestic or global market.
in writing. - the european steel industry is suffering from the simultaneous effects of low demand and global overcapacity, while facing high energy prices and investment needs to adapt to a green economy by producing innovative products in a sustainable way. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: employment in this sector decreased by 10% between 2007 and 2011. however, the eu is still the world's largest steel producer, producing over 177 million tonnes of steel a year, accounting for 11% of world production and employing over 360 000 people. according to the oecd, global steel demand is expected to increase to 2,3 billion tonnes by 2025, mainly from the construction, transport and mechanical engineering sectors, especially in emerging economies. it is essential that the eu steel industry is able to take full advantage of this competitive market.
in writing. - the report draws attention to the role that the steel industry can and must play in the development of europe, given its job creation potential and the particular importance of steel production. the share of steel has decreased dramatically in recent years at eu level, for multiple reasons, including relocation and extra-european competition. the steel reindustrialisation of europe must take place, with a direct impact on job creation, the production of a raw material used in most sectors of activity and the economic growth of the eu.
in writing. - promoting a stronger european steel industry will enable the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, for which i believe that r&d and innovation are very important elements that allow companies to develop production methods that use fewer resources and do not undermine the competitiveness of european companies and also stimulate job creation. on the other hand, europe needs long-term strategies to enable businesses and employees to adapt to structural changes, to ensure a gradual transition to possible new labour requirements. i also believe that the level of qualifications needs to be adapted in such a way as to guarantee employment in order to be able to switch, if necessary, to new production and business models.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe, the steel industry is of strategic importance for a significant number of european economic sectors and for the process of european integration. the european union must support domestic steel production through policies to develop this sector, the main factor of economic growth that can provide direct jobs, as well as in related industries, in the territory of the member states. the framework conditions presented in the report highlight the opportunities related to stimulating demand and employment through research, trade partnerships, innovation and increased competitiveness. with a view to the recovery of the internal steel market, i support the proposals for measures presented by the rapporteur, such as the supply of safe and sustainable energy at affordable prices, the development of legal markets for steel products and waste to reduce emissions and the consumption of energy and raw materials. increased competitiveness in the european steel sector can be supported by fair competition at international level and by upgrading innovative technologies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe. they argue that the european union must promote a policy of industrial production development in all member states, in order to secure jobs in the union and to ensure an increase from the current level of 15.2% of gdp to a level of at least 20% by 2020. we support the commission's commitment to step up efforts to reduce energy prices and to reduce the gap between the eu industry and its main competitors, taking into account member states' strategies and allowing them to respect their specific national requirements. we believe that the commission should come forward with concrete proposals at european level within 12 months. i stress that the issue of carbon leakage should be addressed more concretely and in detail by the commission and that the 2030 climate and energy policy targets should be technically and economically feasible for eu industries and that the best performing companies should not be burdened with additional direct or indirect costs as a result of climate policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable european steel industry. i welcome the initiative of my colleague, mr andrás gyürk, to draw up this document, which contains concrete proposals to support a competitive and sustainable european steel industry and complements the european commission's action plan for the steel industry. it is becoming clear to everyone that europe needs to be re-industrialised. in this context, the steel industry should be given due attention and support. it should also be borne in mind that the european union was founded on the european coal and steel community. for me, as a representative of the rmdsz ep, it is not indifferent that vajdahunyad, my hometown and countryside, was already more than a century ago one of the most important metallurgical centers in central europe.
in writing. the european parliament and the council need to overcome the deadlock in the negotiations, in particular on the intergovernmental mechanism proposed by the council for the establishment of the single resolution fund for banks in financial difficulties. the european parliament naturally supports a mechanism based on the treaty on the functioning of the european union. a mutually acceptable compromise is needed, which means reducing intergovernmental action to the minimum possible.
thank you, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, the trade defence mechanism, which includes anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, plays a very important role both in combating unfair competition from third countries and in supporting local businesses. european industry needs to be supported, especially as it is currently in a difficult economic environment. in this context, the european union cannot grant conditions that are too favourable to its competitors. it must protect its small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent 99% of european companies and are generators of economic growth and jobs. therefore, i believe that the trade defence provisions should be maintained in the form in which they were adopted in the committee on international trade. i would also like to welcome the inclusion in the report of the possibility, provided for by the world trade organisation, of tightening up trade defence rules if the social and environmental standards of a third country are too low. thank you. thank you.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has affected millions of european citizens, who have lost their jobs and their confidence in european solutions for economic recovery. financial speculation is one of the major causes of the economic and financial crisis of recent years. however, in order to allow the banking sector to continue lending to provide the capital needed by businesses, the european union considered it necessary to support the banking sector for a limited period. also, due to the economic and financial crisis, member states have adopted austerity policies in recent years which have often contributed to the increase in unemployment. austerity cannot lead to economic growth and job creation. european citizens are therefore calling for the banking sector to contribute to the cost of economic recovery. 64% of europeans support the rapid introduction of a financial transaction tax. the financial transaction tax should be simple and easy to apply. it should only concern derivative transactions and not simple financial transactions carried out by citizens. part of the revenue from the financial transaction tax should also be paid to the union budget so that the member states' contribution to the union budget is reduced accordingly.
in writing. renewable energy must and will play a central role in 2050, reducing europe's dependence on fossil fuels, which continue to impact the bills of european citizens in a significant way year after year. to ensure a high standard of living for future generations, the european union's sustainable energy policies must be built on four pillars: availability, affordability, reasonable costs, environmental impact management, and a balance between economic growth, environmental protection and social responsibility. i support the rapporteur's position on the role and importance of european regional policy in promoting renewable energy production and energy efficiency across europe, but we must not forget that, for the safety of our companies and investors, the union needs to support the market through funding, policies and strategies on the efficient use of resources. clarity in these areas will provide certainty for investors and stimulate innovation and demand for low-carbon technologies, thus supporting progress towards building a more competitive, sustainable and energy-secure european economy.
the reporter. - thank you, mr president. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank both my fellow members and the econ and inta secretariats for their excellent cooperation in drafting the draft resolution on the way forward in the field of competition policy. i welcome the proposed agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws. these cooperation agreements are useful in an increasingly globalised economic context, where cartels operate across borders and mergers often involve multiple jurisdictions. such an agreement with switzerland is necessary in view of its strategic geographical position for the european union, the presence of numerous european companies in switzerland and the high number of parallel investigations carried out in both jurisdictions in recent years. i hope that the prosecution of international cartels and the sanctioning of serious cross-border crime will be more effective as a result of this agreement, and that the duplication of work by competition authorities in deciding similar cases and the risks of divergent assessments will be reduced. i hope that both the european executive and the swiss competition commission will remain as resolute in the fight against cartels, given that they harm consumer welfare and innovation and have a negative impact on the competitiveness of both economies. i regret that the agreement does not contain legally binding provisions on cooperation. unfortunately, a margin of appreciation is left, in particular as regards the so-called important interests that can be invoked by either party as justification for not complying with a request made by the other party. the most important provision introduced by this type of second generation agreement is the possibility for the european commission and the swiss competition commission to exchange confidential information, which could serve as a model for future bilateral cooperation agreements in the field of competition. however, secure mechanisms for the use and transmission of confidential information should be established and the commission should ensure the promotion of leniency programmes and dealing procedures, taking into account the general principle governing the exchange of confidential information under this agreement. at the same time, member states and their national competition authorities should cooperate fully with the commission to ensure the effective implementation of the agreement. it is essential that the european executive monitors this implementation. as the agreement with switzerland is the first of its kind in the field of competition, i would like to initiate, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, a dialogue with the european executive and would therefore first like to know how the commission intends to ensure effective cooperation with switzerland in the absence of legal obligations? the significant margin of manoeuvre that has been granted to the parties, in particular through the possibility to invoke important interests as a ground for not applying the agreement, is likely to undermine the effective implementation of the agreement. what tools does the commission have to monitor the implementation of the agreement? furthermore, how does the commission intend to ensure that the incentive for leniency programmes is not affected by the possibility of exchanges of confidential information under this agreement? in the event of unlawful disclosure or use of information provided in the context of the above exchanges, what measures does the commission intend to take to minimise any damage caused by such use or disclosure and to ensure that such a situation does not recur? i am also interested to know what progress has been made in the negotiations on a second generation bilateral agreement with canada. does the commission intend to launch negotiations on second generation agreements with other countries in the near or medium term? what strategy will the commission use to develop mous with major emerging economies such as china or india and to strengthen cooperation with them? can these non-legally binding instruments really be effective? also, what measures does the commission envisage to ensure that parliament is adequately and regularly informed about planned or ongoing negotiations? in the absence of criminal sanctions under the current eu competition law regime, how will the commission ensure that information provided by the eu in the context of second generation agreements cannot be used to impose sanctions depriving individuals of their liberty? and last but not least, what is the commission's position on the possibility of introducing criminal penalties for infringements of competition law? thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr president. i would like to start by welcoming this innovative agreement, especially in the context of switzerland being one of the union's most important economic partners. its implementation will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law. moreover, the european union should build on the experience gained from the conclusion of this agreement and take the necessary steps to conclude other second generation agreements with other partners such as canada, the usa or japan. switzerland is a very important partner of the union and, although not a member state, enjoys advantages and rights similar to those of the states of the union. so they have to meet a number of obligations that are fundamental to us. i draw attention to the fact that there are still restrictions on the free movement of romanians and bulgarians in switzerland. in addition, on february 9, swiss citizens will vote in a referendum on an initiative against mass immigration, which will set annual quotas for immigrants, including from eu states. i think it is important to send a strong message to our partners that freedom of movement and non-discrimination for european citizens are not negotiable.
the reporter. - thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in this constructive debate today. i also want to thank the commissioner for his replies today and i think i am in agreement with all my colleagues when i say again that i believe this agreement is beneficial for both sides and can be, as many colleagues have said, a model for future agreements. i therefore invite the commission to provide parliament with regular updates on these future agreements in the future. last but not least, i hope that the swiss parliament will also approve the agreement facilitating cooperation in the field of competition. i would also like to reply to mr schwab: i tabled an oral amendment in committee, whereby, in the event of any further amendments to this agreement, the commission will have to come and inform parliament and we will have to agree to these new amendments. i believe that, by voting tomorrow, the european parliament wants to convey to the swiss confederation that the european union is willing to strengthen its anti-cartel policy and i hope that we will have a partner in this fight against cartels. thank you. thank you.
mr president, in my view, the adoption of the arms trade treaty is a historic step towards strengthening global security. this treaty is a unique opportunity to combat the illicit trade in weapons and military technology, which kills at least 300 000 people and destroys the lives of millions more each year. sadly, many of the victims are children, whose only fault is that they were born in conflict zones, such as those in africa and south america. i also want to draw attention to the fact that many of the weapons that are being illegally sold end up in the hands of child soldiers, who are forced to fight side by side with professional soldiers. not only rebel groups but even some governments are recruiting children into their armed forces. it is estimated that there are two or even three hundred thousand child soldiers worldwide.
mr president, in recent years, the increase in passenger numbers has sometimes been accompanied by unfair practices and a reduction in the quality of services, with unpleasant consequences for customers. statistics show that passengers are reluctant to take such compensation because of the high costs and complicated procedures, while others do not even know their rights. the report introduces the obligation for airlines to have a point of contact at all airports where they operate. the contact point shall provide information on passenger rights and resolve problems caused by flight delays or cancellations. hand baggage and airport shopping must be allowed on all flights, regardless of the maximum baggage allowance. in the event of delays exceeding two hours, companies must provide free food and drink. i support the proposal voted in the commission on compensation and distance in the event of flight delays or cancellations. they also support the exhaustive list of extraordinary circumstances which allow the air carrier to deny passengers their rights to compensation. i believe that the report creates a clear and simple framework for both passengers and the aviation industry that can meet the growing challenges of this mode of transport. i thank my colleague mr bach for the balanced report he has been able to produce.
mr president, i would stress the importance of improvements in passenger rights legislation, particularly in terms of information, compensation and assistance, and the possibility for national authorities to sanction airlines that do not meet their obligations to passengers. it is important to provide citizens with coherent legislation that gives them a clear understanding of their rights. in this respect, any loopholes that could be used by airlines to the detriment of passengers must be avoided and it is important to establish an exhaustive list of exceptional circumstances that justify the non-payment of compensation. i also highlight the improvements in information transparency, the provision of more accessible contact points at airports, the simplification of complaint procedures and clear conditions on baggage, and also the clarification and improvement of the rights of persons with disabilities.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr moraes for his excellent work during long and difficult negotiations. this compromise agreement represents a major step in the elaboration of the eu’s legal migration framework. for the first time, this text will establish a set of minimum rights and equal treatment measures for seasonal migrant workers, for example in relation to pay or safety, in addition to guarantees of adequate accommodation. these are necessary to eliminate inhuman and indecent working conditions. the swift implementation of this directive will depend on the member states’ willingness to ensure effective labour inspection and high labour and social standards. these requirements also concern many eu citizens working in other member states, including thousands of romanian citizens. we need to strengthen the fight against social dumping and guarantee full respect of equal rights for all workers in the eu.
madam president, i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation of undocumented migrant women in the european union. i would like to draw attention to the fact that they are easy targets for sexual or physical exploitation, that they have no identity documents, that they have no financial resources, that they are exposed to the risk of malnutrition and disease and that they are forced to find solutions - often not in line with the democratic principles of the european union - to ensure their livelihood. often, undocumented migrant women are accompanied by children, who also need care. that's one more reason to accept an occupation by which they are exploited. i am in favour of protecting the fundamental rights of undocumented migrants and call on the member states and the commission to explicitly recognise that undocumented migrant women represent a vulnerable social group exposed to the risks of trafficking, discrimination and exploitation in the labour market.
in writing. - migrant women, without identity documents, represent one of the most vulnerable social groups in europe. the proliferation of conflicts outside the european area is increasing the number of people in this situation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i believe it is important that member states provide appropriate legal and humanitarian support to people in this situation. at the same time, i welcome the proposal to launch campaigns to raise awareness among the european public of the rights of migrant women in the union.
in writing. - although i agree with most of the provisions of this report, as well as the fact that undocumented migrant women are a vulnerable category that requires special attention, i chose to abstain from voting. in my view, there are a number of measures which could create major difficulties for the member states. i refer in particular to the reference to asylum facilities for these women. the problem is that an undocumented person can pose certain risks, especially from the perspective of terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it clarifies the notion and situation of migrants/migrant women from third countries who have arrived in the eu but who do not have documents. the concept of migrant, but also of migrant without identity documents, is defined as a third-country national whose stay in the eu is illegal and therefore does not have a residence permit to authorise it. the migrant either entered the eu illegally, overstayed his visa or had his asylum application rejected. the situation of migrant women without identity documents is more difficult than that of men. they face double discrimination on the grounds of gender and legal status (or even triple discrimination if we count race). migrant women are more vulnerable to physical abuse in general, but those without id are even more vulnerable, because their legal status puts them in a situation where they cannot ask for help from the police or hospitals or shelters, and those who abuse them know this and exploit it.
in writing. - migrant women without identity documents face multiple discrimination on the basis of gender, legal status and sometimes race. they are vulnerable to physical abuse, lack access to emergency medical services, are often victims of exploitation at work, and cannot access women's shelters. i voted for the resolution because access to health, education and police services is a fundamental right and migrants without identity papers must be able to access them, regardless of their residence or legal status. i also support the obligation for member states to provide migrants without identity documents with the possibility to lodge a complaint against an employer to demand payment of outstanding wages, in order to prevent and combat labour abuse and exploitation. last but not least, decent alternatives to detention centres with prison conditions that cause trauma to migrant women during detention must be found.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the situation of undocumented migrant women in the european union. i want to draw your attention to the fact that they are an easy target for sexual or physical exploitation. they have no identity papers, no financial resources, are at risk of malnutrition and disease, and are forced to find solutions - unacceptable by eu standards - to make a living. often, undocumented migrant women are accompanied by children, who also need care. that's one more reason to accept an occupation by which they are exploited. i am in favour of protecting the fundamental rights of undocumented migrants and call on the member states and the commission to explicitly recognise that undocumented migrant women represent a vulnerable social group exposed to the risks of trafficking, discrimination and exploitation in the labour market.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on undocumented migrant women in the european union. we encourage member states to ensure the provision of gender-specific care and support services. we recall that the rights provided for in the victims directive are not dependent on the residence status of the victim and therefore encourage member states to separate the prosecution of perpetrators of violence against migrant women without identity documents from immigration control, so that victims can lodge a complaint in safety. we recommend that the commission, in the future revision of the employer sanctions directive, introduce the possibility of a mechanism allowing illegal migrants to lodge formal anonymous complaints against abusive employers. we urge all member states to ratify the convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (istanbul convention) and to correctly apply its provisions, in particular article 59, which provides that parties should take the necessary measures to suspend expulsion procedures and/or grant an autonomous residence permit in the event of the dissolution of marriages to migrant women whose residence status depends on their husbands.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report because there are certain sectors of the economy where migrant workers are absolutely necessary, and here i am referring in particular to the agricultural sector, which, during the harvest season, needs additional labour. even though the directive concerns workers from third countries, i can also give you the example of many romanian citizens who, during the summer, for a few months, chose to go to work in countries such as spain or italy and work in agriculture. but often these people faced abuse, either from the authorities or from their employers. this is also the case for many citizens of non-eu countries. therefore, the existence of a uniform legal framework at union level can protect the employee and provide greater legal certainty for the employer.
in writing. - the european union needs seasonal workers from outside the eu for short-term and fixed-term work and will continue to cover part of the labour shortage with them, which is why it is essential that this directive pays particular attention to the need for equal treatment in the eu labour market to ensure that pay and working conditions are not undermined. on the other hand, it is important to ensure the protection of seasonal workers against persecution. as such, it is important that provisions relating to monitoring or inspections are implemented to ensure full respect for the rights of seasonal workers and the provisions of this directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which represents a major step forward in the european union's policy on legal immigration. this directive will establish a set of rights and measures aimed at equal treatment of seasonal workers from third countries. these workers are a necessary workforce for the union's economy, particularly in the agricultural and tourism sectors. seasonal workers will enjoy a set of socioeconomic rights, such as the right to equal treatment in terms of working conditions, the right to social security, training or adequate housing. these conditions are necessary to put an end to the sometimes inhumane conditions affecting irregular migrant workers. the rapid and effective implementation of this directive will depend on the willingness of the member states to ensure the monitoring and effectiveness of labour inspections necessary to maintain the highest social and economic standards. the effective implementation of these rights should also be carefully monitored for the many european citizens, including many romanians, who live and work in another member state and are often victims of social dumping and exploitation.
in writing. - we must provide better social protection for the foreign seasonal workers who come to work in the union every year. according to data published by the commission, the number of foreign seasonal workers exceeds 100 000 each year. there is also significant evidence that certain seasonal workers from outside the union face exploitation and working conditions below minimum standards, which may endanger their health and safety. i support the commission's proposal to have a common legislative framework governing both the rights and obligations of this category of workers. a clear, transparent and uniform procedure will reduce the number of seasonal workers working illegally in the union or illegally prolonging their right of residence and will ensure greater legal certainty in employment relationships.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work. this directive will contribute to the effective management of migration flows for the specific category of temporary seasonal migration and to the ensuring of decent working and living conditions for seasonal workers by establishing fair and transparent rules on admission and residence and by defining the rights of seasonal workers. for stays of less than 90 days, this directive shall apply without prejudice to the schengen acquis, in particular the visa code, the schengen borders code and regulation no 539/2001. given the particularly vulnerable situation of third-country seasonal workers and the temporary nature of their work, it is necessary to ensure effective protection of the rights of third-country seasonal workers, including in the field of social security, to verify periodically compliance with and guaranteeing the principle of equal treatment with workers who are nationals of the host member state, under the concept of equal pay for equal work at the same place of work, by applying collective agreements and other agreements relating to working conditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing causes economic damage to member states and sometimes irreversibly affects entire ecosystems. cooperation between third countries and the european union is thus essential, but this cooperation must not be merely formal, but must be properly implemented. the tuna species covered by the proposal are of high value and their overfishing and uncontrolled fishing must stop.
in writing. - the union is a contracting party to the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat convention) of 14 november 1997. at its 14th special session in 2004, iccat recognised the efforts made by cambodia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone to respond to the eu's demands and adopted recommendations on the lifting of trade restrictive measures against the three countries. at its 22nd ordinary annual meeting, iccat recognised the actions taken by bolivia and georgia and adopted recommendation 11-19 lifting the import bans on atlantic bigeye tuna and atlantic bigeye tuna products imposed on the latter two countries. in order to comply with its international commitments, the repeal of regulation (ec) no 827/2004 is necessary and, by today's vote, the european parliament has given its consent to this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation banning imports of atlantic bigeye tuna (thunnus obesus) originating in bolivia, cambodia, georgia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone and repealing regulation (ec) no 1036/2001. the union is a contracting party to the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat convention). in 1998, iccat adopted resolution 98-18 on unreported and unregulated catches of bluefin tuna by large purse seiners in the convention area. that resolution established procedures for the identification of countries whose vessels have fished for tuna and related species in a manner that has reduced the effectiveness of the conservation and management measures adopted by iccat. the resolution also specified the measures to be taken, including non-discriminatory trade restrictive measures, if necessary, to prevent vessels from these countries from continuing this type of fishing practices. at its 14th special meeting in 2004, iccat recognised the efforts made by cambodia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone to address the concerns expressed and adopted recommendations on the lifting of trade restrictive measures against these three countries in relation to atlantic bigeye tuna and atlantic bigeye tuna products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation and support the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the gabonese republic. as the former protocol expired in 2011, fishing activities of union vessels in gabonese waters were frozen from that date. the annual financial contribution by the union to gabon is fair and the quotas imposed ensure a balance between economic and environmental and marine conservation aspects.
in writing. - the main objective of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the gabonese republic is to provide fishing opportunities for european union vessels in gabonese waters, taking into account the best available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, within the limits of the available surplus. the two parties agreed to improve the regular monitoring of catches by union vessels in the gabonese fishing zone. to this end, the union will regularly analyse catch and effort data of eu vessels present in the gabonese fishing zone during a fishing season. it should be underlined that the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and gabon will promote, in the medium term, the sustainable exploitation by gabon of its own fisheries resources both for domestic consumption, in line with the needs of the population, and for export, which increases the added value of fishing activities. i believe that the transparency of the procedures for accounting for total catches should be further improved and the measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing strengthened.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the gabonese republic. the commission has opened negotiations with the gabonese republic for the renewal of the protocol to the eu-gabon fisheries partnership agreement. the main objective of the protocol to the agreement is to provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in gabonese waters, taking into account the best available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and within the limits of the available surplus. the previous protocol was in force from 3 december 2005 to 2 december 2011. the negotiations were suspended until the end of the first quarter of 2013. following the resumption of the talks, the two parties reached an agreement on the text of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement. the new protocol covers a period of three years from the date of its signature.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i too believe that the framework for cooperation between the european union and greenland for the next multiannual budgetary perspective 2014-2020 should be redefined. the arctic is of growing interest to the main actors in international relations and a redefinition of the cooperation framework is needed. however, i would like to point out that it was not just greenland's potential energy resources that made this decision. the field of education is not sufficiently developed and union support should therefore be directed primarily to this sector. the high school dropout rate and insufficient vocational guidance are issues that the new framework for relations between the european union and greenland will have to address as a matter of priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft council decision on relations between the european union, on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, on the other. the project highlights that a partnership between the eu and greenland and the kingdom of denmark is beneficial for all parties, taking into account the geostrategic position of greenland and the arctic area, which is of interest to the european union at the present time. i welcome the proposal made by the european council to renew this partnership and to establish the areas of expertise on which the partnership itself will be based. i hope that through this partnership, the european union will take part in the discussions of the arctic council and represent our interests at the negotiating table alongside the other member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft decision on relations between the eu, on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, on the other. the eu-greenland partnership should provide a framework for regular discussions on issues of interest to the union or to greenland. the increasingly significant impact of climate change on human activity and the environment, maritime transport, natural resources, including raw materials, as well as on education, research and innovation, requires enhanced dialogue and cooperation. the government of greenland should draw up and submit a programming document for the sustainable development of greenland. that document should be drawn up, implemented and evaluated on the basis of a transparent and participatory approach. union financial support for the period 2014-2020 should focus on a limited number of areas of cooperation in order to maximise the impact of the partnership and to achieve economies of scale, synergies and greater effectiveness and visibility of union actions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because member states face different risks and natural disasters and often citizens are not aware of the different risks that can arise from meteorological phenomena at regional, national or community level. thus, as the report shows, prevention is the most important way to protect the population and avoid losses caused by such unforeseen events. in this regard, both member states and the commission should ensure access to information to help consumers, communities and societies to make a fully informed decision when taking out a natural disaster insurance policy.
in writing. - with today's vote, we have taken a step forward in developing a more responsible society that pays sufficient attention to precautionary measures, and in creating a culture of prevention that raises citizens' awareness of natural and man-made risks. partnerships between insurance companies and research institutes on pooling resources, skills and risk expertise to better understand the issues involved play an important role, thus preparing citizens and the communities in which they live to address natural disaster risks more effectively. i believe that closer cooperation between the public and private sectors could help member states and local authorities to identify high-risk areas, decide on prevention measures and prepare for coordinated action. it is important that member states exchange best practices and experience in order to protect citizens against unforeseen events and develop a network for the exchange of information and reach agreement on cross-border coordination and management.
in writing. - the recent and more recent catastrophic weather events in various parts of europe have highlighted the need for an insurance system which can protect producers from the devastating effects of natural and man-made disasters. it is clear that the state and the regional authorities bear a large part of the direct or indirect burden of the costs of damage and, in this respect, i welcome the emphasis in the report on strengthening prevention practices. in the final analysis, however, we must not forget that a uniform legislation on this matter would contribute to a greater awareness of the risks by entrepreneurs and, on the other hand, to a greater responsiveness of the response by local authorities.
in writing. - natural and man-made disasters are occurring with increasing frequency in the european union, which should be a cause for concern given the damage and high costs they cause. storm floods, river overflow, and forest fires are the most common. there is a need to better inform union citizens, as they are not aware of the different risks that may arise or tend to underestimate them. i believe that good information would increase disaster prevention and mitigation and protect the population from potential losses. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi).
in writing. - the impact of natural and man-made disasters in europe has increased rapidly in recent years, while the capacity of member states to respond is often limited. in this context, i believe that disaster prevention must be a priority of european risk management policy. the reduction of the consequences of disasters is more effective than simply providing insurance cover or repairing the damage later. i would like to draw attention to the need to involve communities in disaster risk education activities in order to develop a rapid response behaviour. i therefore welcome the decision to establish the international day for natural disaster risk reduction as a means of promoting a global culture of mitigation, in particular prevention, mitigation and preparedness. last but not least, measures to increase europe's preparedness for natural and man-made disasters must target rapid and well-targeted efforts to rehabilitate and rebuild after a disaster.
in writing. - i supported the report on insurance against natural and man-made disasters and i would like to draw attention to the special situation of agriculture among the areas most seriously and frequently affected by disasters such as floods and heavy snowfalls, as well as other extreme weather events. the new regulations on the common agricultural policy provide for a financial contribution from european funds, crop, animal and plant insurance. this support may amount to up to 65% of the insurance premium due. in view of the enormous damage caused to agriculture by natural disasters with an impact on crops and food prices , member states have a duty to prepare in advance an incentive and effective framework to allow the maximum use of this opportunity offered by the common agricultural policy. as natural disasters are by definition unforeseen phenomena, the preparation of the legal framework for insurance premium subsidisation cannot tolerate any delay.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on insurance against natural and man-made disasters. storm floods, forest fires and floods caused by river surges and high winds are among the main natural disaster risks facing europe and, even if their number is increasing at a rapid pace, it is still impossible to estimate their increasingly powerful effects in terms of damage and costs. we believe that further research could lead to a detailed framework of the different situations concerning the understanding and prevention of environmental risks and to a reduction of uncertainty in this area. we welcome partnerships between insurance companies and research institutes on pooling resources, skills and risk expertise to better understand the issues involved, thereby preparing citizens and the communities in which they live to deal more effectively with natural disaster risks. we believe that closer cooperation between the public and private sectors could help member states and local authorities to identify high-risk areas, decide on prevention measures and prepare for coordinated action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on insurance against natural and man-made disasters because it focuses on prevention, underlining that the eu has a very important role to play in developing a more responsible society, paying sufficient attention to precautionary measures, and in creating a culture of prevention that raises citizens' awareness of natural and man-made risks. i also welcome the fact that the report invites member states to exchange best practices and experience in order to protect citizens against unforeseen events and develop a network for the exchange of information and to reach an agreement on cross-border coordination and management. the resolution also refers to the commission's efforts to raise public awareness of disasters, stressing that natural and man-made disasters require different types of insurance and are covered by two different insurance markets and therefore cannot be analysed together.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the nomination of ms sabine lautenschläger to the post of vice-chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank. i consider that ms lautenschläger's career is impressive and her previous positions are further evidence of her extensive experience in the field of banking and financial supervision.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the proposal of the european central bank for the appointment of the vice-chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank, approving the ecb's proposal for the appointment of sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the ecb. on 21 january 2014, the european council appointed sabine lautenschläger as a member of the executive board of the ecb in accordance with article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. by its letter of 22 january 2014, the ecb submitted to parliament a proposal to appoint sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the ecb for a five-year term. the committee on economic and monetary affairs of parliament assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in view of the requirements laid down in article 26 (2) and (3) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013. the commission also held a hearing with the proposed candidate on 3 february 2014, during which she made an introductory statement and then answered questions from the members of the commission.
madam president, i voted in favour of this recommendation and i believe that, following the example of the agreement concluded with switzerland, the union should also consider strengthening cooperation in the field of competition with other economic partners. the novelty of this report, the exchange of evidence, will facilitate investigations into anti-competitive actions. in addition, the degree of integration between the economies of the various states is very high, and many of these practices affect cross-border trade and, by implication, european citizens. however, i cannot fail to note that this agreement lacks legal obligations. so if one of the parties can invoke certain important interests to disapply the provisions of the agreement, i wonder if in practice its usefulness will be as great as what we now find in theory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws. following the conclusion of cooperation agreements on competition with the usa, canada, japan and south korea, the commission is now about to conclude a 'first second generation agreement' with the swiss confederation. unlike previous agreements, this agreement also includes provisions on the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities when they investigate the same case, which will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law. the swiss confederation is the eu's third most important economic partner. there is a high degree of integration between the economies of the various states and many anti-competitive practices affect cross-border trade. the implementation of the agreement will be facilitated by the similarities between the rules and practices applicable within the eu and the swiss confederation. the eu should build on the experience gained from this agreement and take the necessary steps to conclude other 'second generation' agreements with other partners, no matter how many obstacles may arise due to differences in rules and practices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with an important aspect of the new agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws. i refer here to the legally binding provisions on such enhanced cooperation and the definition of 'important interests' in that agreement. therefore, in order to fill these possible legislative gaps, as well as to ensure the effective implementation of this agreement, it is essential that the member states and switzerland, through their national competition authorities, cooperate fully with the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on european union cooperation agreements in the field of competition policy implementation. we welcome the proposed agreement between the eu and switzerland on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws. the member states and their national competition authorities should cooperate fully with the commission to ensure the effective implementation of this agreement. we consider it essential to closely monitor the implementation of this agreement in order to learn from experience and identify any issues of concern and we invite the commission to carry out such monitoring. we invite the commission to actively promote cooperation in the enforcement of competition policy at international level, in particular in multilateral fora such as the world trade organisation (wto), the international competition network (icn) and the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd). we ask the commission, in view of the future negotiations on competition agreements, to provide more comprehensive and frequent information to parliament.
madam president, i voted in favour of the recommendation because the member states must ratify the arms trade treaty as soon as possible. i would also like to call on third countries to speed up their internal ratification procedures. although the legal act is not as ambitious as we would have liked, i believe that it still creates the premises for an even stricter regulation, at international level, of the arms trade in the future. romania, for example, already applies more restrictive rules on the arms trade, so the impact in this respect will not be major for my country. romania's arms exports are much lower today than in 1990, but even under these conditions the national defence industry has a particularly important strategic component.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the international arms trade treaty. unlike weapons of mass destruction and landmines, the trade in conventional weapons is not subject to any legally binding international instrument. the arms trade treaty is designed to fill this gap. it establishes a common international standard to regulate international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, ammunition and their parts and components. it also aims to prevent and eliminate the illicit trade in such weapons. the current situation of the arms trade, which is totally unregulated, has catastrophic effects on peace, security and development in some of the world's most vulnerable countries. the aim of the international arms trade treaty is to control arms exports to third countries, and more particularly to try to stop arms exports to areas where there is a danger of human rights violations or even genocide. it is our responsibility to bring greater transparency to this sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 5 february 2014 on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the arms trade treaty. the arms trade treaty was adopted on 2 april 2013 by a resolution of the united nations general assembly. three states voted against the treaty (north korea, iran and syria) and 22 states abstained (including china, india and russia), which could lead to slow ratification and possibly incomplete implementation in these countries. the att sets a common international standard for regulating international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, ammunition, parts and components. it also aims at preventing and eradicating the illicit trade in such weapons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it is the duty of member states to implement control systems for arms transfers. transparency in this area is essential, especially in a context where many weapons end up in the hands of groups whose sole purpose is to destabilise certain regions or countries. however, it is also important that non-eu states ratify this treaty in order to allow for the creation of a strengthened international arms export control system. last but not least, i believe that this treaty lays the foundation for greater cooperation between the signatory states in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the arms trade treaty (att) approving the proposal for a council decision. the treaty aims to establish the highest possible common international standards for the regulation of the international trade in conventional arms, the prevention and eradication of the illicit trade in conventional arms, in order to support international and regional peace, security and stability and the reduction of human suffering. we believe that the effective implementation of the treaty can make a significant contribution to strengthening respect for international human rights and humanitarian law worldwide. we invite states parties, with regard to export control and the application of articles 6 (prohibitions) and 7 (1a-iv) (export and assessment of export requests) of the att, to pay particular attention to goods that can be used for both civilian and military purposes, such as surveillance technology, but also spare parts and corresponding products used in cyberwarfare or for non-lethal human rights abuses, and propose to consider the possibility of extending the scope of the att to include services associated with the export of dual-use goods and weapons and technology.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which represents an important victory for social and economic rights in the framework of european regulation against imports which are subject to dumping and subsidies from third countries. the revision of this regulation will allow the eu to impose higher customs duties on countries exporting subsidised or dumped products to the eu when these countries do not comply with the basic conventions or basic environmental standards set by the international labour organisation (ilo). the european parliament's vote calls on the commission to be more cautious in its international commitments at a time when european industry is under increasing pressure from international competitors. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european instruments for defending the union's trade policy must be further modernised to protect european industries and the millions of jobs they create against illegal and unfair trade practices by certain third countries!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments adopted by the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community and regulation no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community. it is necessary to amend certain provisions of the regulations in order to improve transparency and predictability, to provide for effective measures to combat retaliation by third countries, to improve effectiveness and enforcement and to optimise review practices. the lack of homogeneity and fragmentation of sectors, which are largely composed of smes, make it difficult to access trade defence procedures, due to the complexity of those procedures and the high costs involved. access for smes should be improved by strengthening the role of the sme helpdesk, which should support smes in lodging complaints and reaching the thresholds necessary to initiate investigations. administrative procedures associated with trade defence procedures should also be better adapted to the constraints of smes.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because the treaty of lisbon requires us to bring european legislation into line with the law. i also think that this process should be expedited, given that it has been four years since it came into force. the report makes a number of important improvements to the commission's powers. i am referring in particular to ensuring the safety of seafarers and reducing bureaucratic burdens. furthermore, the commission will have to choose the most cost-effective option and respect the sustainable development pillars in the process of adopting delegated acts. last but not least, the commission's report on the state of play of the adopted acts will assess their effectiveness and, by implication, that of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i believe that there should be an agreement between the commission and the competent national plant protection authorities and in no case giving the commission all the powers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. the regulation aims at aligning regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 with the lisbon treaty and it is important that in the future revision of that regulation the commission examine: the european parliament's requests concerning the distinction between passive and fixed fishing gear; the relevance of the 10% tolerance levels for logbook data; the conditions for notification of entry into ports; possible derogations from the weighing conditions; the administrative burden of weighing requirements; the conditions for allocating and transferring points for offences and the publication of data related to offences. i would stress that it is particularly important that the commission organise appropriate consultations during the preparatory work, including at expert level, for example with the regional advisory councils. when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, the commission should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council.
in writing. - the harmonization of national provisions in the field of equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres must have as its primary objective the maintenance of a high level of public safety and the protection of the safety of workers at the workplace. at the same time, i believe that these initiatives, which aim to harmonise the legislative conditions at european level, represent a step forward towards improving the conditions for the functioning of the single market and have the potential to encourage the increase in the competitiveness of european economic operators in this sector of activity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it removes the shortcomings of the current regulations and represents an important step towards completing the single market, which must be based on fair competition. this new framework is simplified compared to the previous one, so it will allow for a consistent implementation of technical rules and will by implication lead to a reduction in the number of non-compliant, unsafe products on the market. the most important issues this time are those relating to consumer protection and the safety of the products they use. i believe that special attention should be paid to distance selling, in the sense that it is necessary to intensify the supervision of this sector which is constantly developing. last but not least, i am convinced that all these measures will improve the conditions for the free movement of goods within the union.
in writing. - the alignment of the product directive proposal to ncl is an important step towards the completion of the eu single market, which will ensure the same treatment for non-compliant products and economic operators and will increase confidence of both producers and consumers by clarifying the obligations of economic operators. on the other hand, the new directive will provide member states' authorities with more efficient tools for carrying out market surveillance checks, all of which will lead to a reduction in the number of non-compliant and unsafe products on the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres (reform). the directive covers products which, when placed on the market, are new to the union market: they are either new products manufactured by a producer within the union or new or second-hand products imported from a third country. it should also apply to all forms of supply, including distance selling. it is necessary to ensure that products from third countries entering the union market comply with this directive, in particular that manufacturers have applied the appropriate conformity assessment procedures for the products concerned. provisions should therefore be laid down requiring importers to ensure that the products they place on the market comply with the requirements of this directive and not to place on the market products which do not comply with those requirements or present risks. provisions should also be adopted requiring importers to ensure that conformity assessment procedures have been applied and that product marking and documentation drawn up by manufacturers are available for inspection by the competent national authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the placing on the market and supervision of explosives for civil use (reform). it is necessary to clarify in this directive that certain articles have been identified on the basis of the united nations recommendations on the transport of dangerous goods as pyrotechnic articles or ammunition and therefore do not fall within the scope of this directive. commission directive 2004/57/ec of 23 april 2004 on the identification of pyrotechnic articles and certain ammunition within the meaning of council directive 93/15/eec on the harmonisation of the provisions relating to the placing on the market and supervision of explosives for civil uses, which currently contains a list of such articles, should therefore be repealed. pyrotechnic articles require appropriate measures to ensure the protection of end-users and the safety of the public. pyrotechnic articles are subject to directive 2013/29/eu on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles. this directive should therefore not apply to pyrotechnic articles. in order to ensure a consistent level of quality in relation to conformity assessment, it is also necessary to lay down requirements for notifying authorities and other bodies involved in the assessment, notification and monitoring of notified bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the amendments to the directive will ensure greater consistency and remove any discrepancies in the text which might otherwise create legal uncertainty. however, i consider that a number of transitional provisions are necessary to give economic operators the time needed to adapt to the new regulatory framework. last but not least, i am confident that with the implementation of the harmonised framework, the number of non-compliant products on the market will decrease considerably, while the confidence and safety of consumers and producers will increase.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of non-automated weighing instruments (reform). the directive covers non-automatic weighing machines which are new to the union market when they are placed on the market. they are either new non-automatic weighing machines manufactured by a manufacturer established in the union or new or second-hand non-automatic weighing machines imported from a third country. member states should protect the public against incorrect results of weighing operations carried out by non-automatic weighing machines when used in certain fields of application. economic operators should be responsible for the conformity of non-automated weighing instruments with the requirements of the directive in relation to their respective roles in the supply chain, in order to ensure a high level of protection of the public interests covered by the directive and to guarantee fair competition on the union market. it is necessary to ensure that non-automatic weighing machines from third countries entering the union market comply with this directive and in particular that manufacturers have applied the appropriate conformity assessment procedures for the non-automatic weighing machines concerned.
in writing. - ensuring a high standard of electromagnetic compatibility at european level is both an advantage for consumers and an incentive for european manufacturers in this field. i also believe that the reduction of bureaucratic restrictions, a consequence of these proposals, is a welcome move which will help to strengthen the market in this important sector for european economies. the provision of contact details for virtual communication between consumers and economic operators in this sector is also an important step towards increasing the level of protection of the rights of european consumers. last but not least, i welcome the provisions to strengthen producer responsibility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. while we will now have a clearer and more harmonised legal framework, the responsibilities of member states remain essential to ensure the conformity, operation, installation and maintenance of products entering the single market. in addition, the appropriate packaging and labelling, in particular by mentioning the instructions for use, safety measures and all contact details, benefits both producers and, above all, consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility (reform). this text envisaged a number of amendments to directive 2004/108/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility and repealing directive 89/336/eec. member states should be responsible for ensuring the protection of radio communications, including reception of broadcasts and amateur radio services operating in accordance with the radio regulations of the international telecommunications organisation (itu), as well as electricity supply and telecommunications networks and equipment connected to them, against electromagnetic disturbance. the relevant provisions of national law providing for protection against electromagnetic disturbances need to be harmonised in order to guarantee the free movement of electrical and electronic equipment without reducing the justified levels of protection in the member states. this directive concerns products which are new to the union market at the time of their placing on the market. these products are completely new, manufactured by a manufacturer established in the union or are imported from a third country, whether they are completely new or second-hand.
in writing. - the marketing of these electrical equipment throughout the european union must first of all comply with public health and safety requirements, especially as regards their impact on civil infrastructure. a related objective of the harmonisation process is to increase the level of protection of vulnerable consumers in the case of non-professional use of such equipment. last but not least, it is important that these measures do not affect the competitiveness of european economic actors and the ability of the market in this sector to meet consumer demands. i support the adoption of this proposal, which has the potential to reduce bureaucratic restrictions and thus contribute to the development of the electrical equipment market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and of the whole harmonisation framework. electrical equipment is a consumer good and economic operators should be responsible for its conformity in order to ensure the highest level of protection of the health and safety of consumers. in the event that electrical equipment is not intended for professional use, the safety of children, the elderly and persons with disabilities must be emphasised. in this respect, labelling plays an important role: the instructions for use must be written in accessible and clear language and potential hazards must be explicitly mentioned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits (reform). the directive covers electrical equipment intended for use within certain voltage limits which is new to the union market when it is placed on the market. this means that it is either new electrical equipment manufactured by a manufacturer established in the union or new or second-hand electrical equipment imported from a third country. all economic operators involved in the supply and distribution chain should take appropriate measures to ensure that they make available on the market only electrical equipment which complies with this directive. it is necessary to provide for a clear and proportionate distribution of obligations corresponding to the role played by each economic operator in the supply and distribution chain. the manufacturer, being the person with the most detailed knowledge of the design and production process, is best placed to carry out the conformity assessment procedure. conformity assessment should therefore remain the sole responsibility of the manufacturer. there is no conformity assessment procedure in this directive which requires the intervention of a notified body.
in writing. - any process of harmonising legislation on the marketing of lifts and related products must take into account the imperatives of public safety with special attention to vulnerable consumers such as the elderly, children, etc. it is also important that the effect of the regulations does not distort fair competition in the single market and the level of competitiveness of european economic actors. last but not least, in view of the imperative assumed by the european union and the member states to build an inclusive society, i believe it is extremely important that the member states and the european authorities respect international regulations on the rights of persons with disabilities in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it brings a number of clarifications to the legislative framework, and deals with issues of public safety. as regards lifts, i believe that the most important measures that can be taken to guarantee the safety of their use are those relating to regular checks and technical inspections. last but not least, special attention should be paid to children, the elderly and, in particular, people with disabilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of lifts and safety components for lifts. elevators covered by this directive are considered to be finished products only after they are permanently installed in buildings or structures. the commission has not established that the union industry is able to benefit from the measures in force. this directive covers safety components for lifts which are new to the union market at the time of their placing on the market. more specifically, they are either new safety components manufactured by a manufacturer in the union or new or second-hand safety components imported from a third country. economic operators should be responsible for the compliance of lifts and safety components for lifts with this directive, depending on their role in the supply chain, in order to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of persons and, where appropriate, the safety of goods and to guarantee fair competition on the union market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it clarifies the shortcomings of the previous regulation by setting out a number of essential safety requirements that simple pressure vessels must meet in order to be made available on the eu market. the entire 'goods package' also aims to create a global framework for streamlining product legislation to make it more uniform and easier to understand for both economic operators and market surveillance authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of simple pressure vessels (reform). this directive concerns simple pressure vessels which are new on the union market when they are placed on the market; this means that they are either new simple pressure vessels manufactured by a manufacturer established in the union or simple pressure vessels, new or second-hand, imported from a third country. member states should ensure, within their territory, the protection of the health and safety of persons and the protection of domestic animals and property against the risks arising from leakage from simple pressure vessels or from their explosion. all economic operators involved in the supply and distribution chain should take appropriate measures to ensure that they make available on the market only simple pressure vessels which comply with this directive. the manufacturer, being the person with the most detailed knowledge of the design and production process, is best placed to carry out the conformity assessment procedure for simple pressure vessels. conformity assessment should therefore remain the sole responsibility of the manufacturer.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because a new regulatory framework was needed to address the shortcomings in the current eu legislation. in this respect, the whole harmonisation package will help to complete the single market, while ensuring both fair competition and, above all, the safety of the products available on the market. i believe that conformity assessment procedures for products are very important and that market surveillance should focus on ensuring the highest level of safety for consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of measuring instruments (reform). measuring instruments that provide accurate and traceable measurements can be used for various measurement operations. measurement operations that meet considerations of public interest, public health, public order and safety, environmental and consumer protection, the collection of taxes and duties and the fairness of commercial transactions, which directly and indirectly affect the daily lives of citizens in many ways, may require the use of legally verified measurement instruments. the statutory metrological control requires compliance with the specified performance requirements. i consider that the performance requirements to be met by measuring instruments should guarantee a high level of protection. conformity assessment shall provide a high level of confidence. member states should, as a general rule, impose legal metrological control. if metrological control is required by law, only measuring instruments which comply with the common performance requirements shall be used. the legal metrological control should not raise barriers to the free movement of measuring instruments. the provisions applicable should be the same in all member states and the proof of conformity should be accepted throughout the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and i would like to welcome this initiative to strengthen and improve passenger rights. we are talking about an industry that generates huge profits at european level and at the same time is at the forefront of complaints by european consumers. for example, most of the complaints registered by the european consumer centre in romania in 2012 concerned the lack of assistance or the refusal to grant compensation for delayed or cancelled flights and for lost or damaged baggage. i was also put in the position of waiting for hours in line for boarding, without receiving a bottle of water or information regarding the possibility of receiving compensation for these incidents. consumer protection must be put above the financial interests of this industry! that is why i support the amendments to the regulation.
in writing. - since the entry into force of this regulation, problems have been identified with regard to a number of different interpretations due to the gaps in the regulation, the uneven application in the member states and the difficulties of passengers in exercising their rights when air carriers breach the legislation. it is important to encourage airlines to think about ways to improve the services they offer and their overall approach. the report comes with a number of measures to support air passengers: the role of national enforcement bodies is better defined and extended to baggage claims. a complaints procedure has been introduced, with clear deadlines and a precisely defined role for a new body to be set up with the task of resolving complaints. new provisions have been introduced regarding denied boarding, missed connecting flights and prolonged delays. a non-exhaustive list of exceptional circumstances has been established to clarify the cases in which air carriers are exempted from compensation. the obligation for air carriers to inform passengers adequately and in a timely manner has been strengthened. new provisions have been introduced on the transport of mobility equipment and musical instruments.
in writing. - the free movement of people at european level has led to a steady increase in air travel and, by implication, in the number of companies offering such services, as well as the emergence of new routes and connections between different cities and regions in europe and other countries outside the eu. in this context, i support the rapporteur's proposal on the need to provide specific protection for passengers in the event of a flight being cancelled due to the insolvency of an air carrier or the suspension of an air carrier's activity following the withdrawal of its operating licence, with reimbursement of expenses or repatriation, as the case may be. on the other hand, better cooperation between airports, air operators, ground handling companies and air traffic control services is needed to minimise the impact of multiple flight disruptions on passengers, by providing assistance services and by re-routing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i support the harmonisation of certain aspects of insolvency law. in order to ensure greater legal certainty for both companies and authorities, there needs to be predictability in the field. in the context of the economic crisis, insolvency proceedings have increased and often have a cross-border component. i also considered it necessary to align the current legislation with the case law of the european court of justice.
in writing. - the european parliament in this report supports some essential points on insolvency proceedings in the context of eu company law. in particular, the european parliament had already pointed out the existence of certain areas of insolvency law where harmonisation was useful and feasible. the report proposes a specific solution to deal with insolvency situations involving groups of companies. it is proposed to appoint a coordinator with the task of presenting a group coordination plan identifying a set of measures for the resolution of the situation of the group companies. it is important to emphasize that this plan must be followed after approval by a judge.
in writing. - in times of financial crisis and budgetary constraints, it is important to support insolvent debtors and prevent them from going bankrupt. at union level, corporate insolvency increased from around 130 910 cases in 2007 to 174 917 cases in 2011. a significant increase (6.1%) was recorded in central and eastern europe. it is regrettable that insolvency laws still vary considerably between member states, causing serious problems for businesses operating across borders. the provisions of the current european regulation on insolvency proceedings are interpreted and applied differently across the union. legislative harmonisation and appropriate solutions are needed to be applied in all member states. i support the amendments proposed by the commission and their implementation as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 1346/2000 on insolvency proceedings, adopting the position of the european parliament at first reading. they argue that the scope of this regulation should be extended to procedures that promote the rescue of a debtor in serious financial difficulties in order to help sound businesses survive and to give entrepreneurs a new chance. the scope should, in particular, also include procedures which provide for the restructuring of a debtor in a pre-insolvency stage or which maintain the existing management team, as well as those discharge procedures concerning consumers and self-employed persons. since such procedures do not necessarily involve the appointment of a representative in insolvency proceedings, they should be covered by this regulation where they take place under the control or supervision of a court. the insolvency regulation establishes a european framework for cross-border insolvency proceedings. the regulation applies where the debtor, whether a natural or legal person, has assets or creditors in more than one member state. the regulation determines the court with jurisdiction to open insolvency proceedings.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption in plenary of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 on insolvency proceedings; i also welcome the fact that, in a relatively short time, the commission has responded, in practice, by this initiative to the request of the european parliament made in 2011 in its own-initiative report containing recommendations to the commission on insolvency proceedings in the context of eu company law. cross-border insolvency proceedings are no longer an exception but a current phenomenon, affecting not only large undertakings/groups of undertakings but also smes. the arguments in favour of the reform process are many, including the need to modernise eu insolvency law to shift the focus from simply winding up a company to giving companies in difficulty a second chance. i voted for this report because it supports the harmonisation of 'insolvency law' in the eu, which is fully achievable at the moment.
mr president, ukraine is a battlefield of euro-atlantic and russian strategic interests. it should not become the victim of this confrontation. the security and stability of the european union are strategically linked to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, as well as to its capacity to provide democratic security in our eastern neighbourhood. we should express our determination to use all available means to reject any attempt regarding ukraine’s partition. ukraine is not able to solve its present political and geopolitical crisis alone. the eu contribution is a must. if successful, the european union would regain its relevance in its eastern neighbourhood. to that end, we must condemn all violence, irrespective of the perpetrators, and encourage the formation of a new government of national unity. we must also offer assistance and mediation towards swift constitutional reform leading to a parliamentary or semi-presidential republic, as well as to the appropriate conditions for free and fair elections. most importantly, subject to appropriate political reforms, the european union must offer the ukraine an economic and financial stabilisation package of similar magnitude to that offered by russia. it should also help ukraine to decouple from its old geo-economic and geopolitical ties. to ensure ukraine’s freedom of choice, we must provide it with a fair chance to choose between europe and eurasia. this requires eu readiness to replace or balance russia in relations with ukraine. the time is for positive incentives and not for sanctions, which should remain the last recourse only ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, unattended to properly, the events in the kiev streets inevitably gained a logic of their own, relatively divorced from the spark which ignited them. however, we should not lose sight of the strategic picture because what is happening in ukraine now has been possible due to an apparent relaxation in the pursuit of the europe whole and free concept which dominated the 1990s after the end of the cold war. both the eu crisis-induced weakness and the us strategic reorientation away from europe have probably encouraged some to try a roll-back, thus questioning the reunification of the continent. consequently, the west should reaffirm its determination to continue towards that aim, and the us should remain involved in european politics. after all, the logic of the us being inevitably interested in european affairs has not altered.
madam president, in december i welcomed the european union's commitment to respond to the considerable humanitarian challenge in the central african republic and called for more engagement on other fronts, including the military aspects. i can only welcome the decision taken by the council on 20 january to launch an eu military operation in the central african republic, a decision which was approved - as we know - by the united nations security council a week later. this is a matter of concern to the whole of europe, since the situation is serious and continues to threaten the stability of the subregion. the situation remains very worrying despite the relaunch of the political transition following the appointment of a new transitional president, ms samba panza. interfaith violence seems to have moved outside bangui and into the country. at least 75 christian victims were killed in boda in one week, and the toll is likely to rise. security must therefore remain a priority, as must the union's support for the organisation of free elections in 2015. the recent initiatives announced by commissioner piebalgs on both points are therefore to be welcomed, even though i see that there is no one from the commission here. preparations must be accelerated so that the union mission in the central african republic can become fully operational in a timely manner. this is all the more true as the european reinforcements - we have spoken of 500 to 600 soldiers - may not be enough to stabilise the country, which has been marked by several months of conflict. the number and nature of member states' participation also needs to be clarified and efforts to communicate this to the european public are needed. for example, the participation of my country, romania, was mentioned, but at national level, there is still a lot of confusion on this issue. finally, beyond the six months provided for by the union mission to the central african republic, it is essential that the union remains committed in the long term by using all the means at its disposal.
madam president, it should be noted that the parties to the syrian conflict have been brought to the negotiating table through international pressure rather than through their own conviction. for them, military confrontation remains their main interaction. the link between the military situation and the negotiations is crucial. the negotiations have, after all, been forced on the parties because the level of violence has become horrifying and there is no military solution to the conflict. indeed, for some time at least the military situation will remain paramount. the parties will try to position themselves on the battlefield as best they can to acquire an advantage at the negotiating table. consequently, the military situation could derail the talks. therefore, the aim should be to keep the negotiations going until the balance between military action and talks reverses in favour of the latter. talks would then acquire a motivation of their own. only then can we say that the prevailing logic is that of negotiating rather than of fighting.
member of the commission. - mr president, it is clear and you have borne witness; a group has gone to bulgaria from parliament. i have had my people there several times; and we have lots of other reports that the situation is very serious in bulgaria. in a short time, a lot of people have come to a country which has not been prepared for this. last year around 11 000 – 12 000 people came. this was a lot for a country which did not have the structures to billet them up. it is a lot in bulgaria; it is a lot compared to many other countries; it is around the number of people coming every second week to germany, sweden and greece. we have to be proportionate here. the bulgarian authorities have indeed – and i want to acknowledge this – taken very important measures, but the situation is still of great concern. the european union, together with a number of international organisations, european agencies and member states have gathered to try to help and we are following the situation closely. it is true that the situation now seems to be under control. but there will probably be increased pressure at the border as the situation in syria is not likely to be solved tomorrow. i also want to say that around half of the people who have arrived are syrians, but the rest are not syrians; they are afghanis, pakistanis and they are coming from other countries as well. we know that there are many areas of distress in our neighbourhood. there are still things that need to be done when it comes to accommodation, to reception conditions – no automaticity in locking people up and to integration for those who have been granted the right to stay, and who will probably stay for quite some time in bulgaria. also, there are the issues related to the border, where there is work being done, but while guaranteeing too, as ms guillaume said, the right for people to access the border and ask for asylum. we have on several occasions raised with the bulgarian authorities the fact that push-back is illegal according to international norms and european standards. it cannot take place and we are in constant dialogue there. we have a terrible war very near the borders of europe in syria. the neighbouring countries of syria, as many of you have said, are taking immense responsibility; housing almost 2.5 million refugees. they are keeping their borders open. only a very small number have arrived as yet in europe and these are only in a very few countries in europe. if all 28 countries contributed we would be able to help many more people. the most immediate help we can give syria and the most vulnerable people there is by opening up for resettlement, in cooperation with unhcr. then we would give access to our countries in a legal and safe way, not making these people travel on rickety vessels across the mediterranean or taking other dangerous routes. today, not even half of the member states are taking resettled refugees. i again repeat my appeal for member states – all 28 – to take resettled refugees from the region. by doing this, we can help the most vulnerable in this terrible tragedy. in the meantime, we will of course, via all the means that we have at our disposal, show solidarity with bulgaria and help it overcome this situation.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, i am sure that the members of the european parliament are aware of the particular sensitivity of the greek presidency of the council to this issue. we are a neighbouring country to bulgaria, a country with a huge coastline. we are facing, like all the mediterranean countries of europe, very great daily pressures at our sea and land borders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. this problem leads us to understand how crucial it is for the european union and turkey to work together effectively in managing migration flows. the european union is also very concerned about the situation in turkey, which is a country which has been in a difficult economic situation for many years. i think we all now understand how important it is to put into practice the axiom, the doctrine of fair and proportionate burden-sharing between the member states. this is linked to solidarity as a basic principle of european integration. the council's discussions on the management of migration flows are, of course, treated as an acute humanitarian problem, as the management of a continuing acute humanitarian crisis, and as a security problem, because behind the humanitarian pressure from those who really need help, from those who seek asylum, from those who can really be described as refugees, in accordance with international law, there may also be cases of people who pose a question of european security. it is also very important to stress that the approach to this issue moves on two parallel levels. the first level is direct measures; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. there is the other level, the overall planning for managing migration flows. the presidency of this six-month period, which has already worked with the next presidency, italy, has made this a priority, because europe really needs to show its ability to manage these issues effectively. i would remind you that the european council in october held a first in-depth debate on this problem, under the pressure of the humanitarian crisis, the lambedusa tragedy. the results of the mediterranean action group were presented to the european council in december. a few days ago, on 24 and 25 january, an informal ministerial meeting on justice and home affairs was held in athens, with the participation of mrs malmström, and a first assessment of the situation was made and the conclusions of the mediterranean action group were drawn. we have a good, reliable basis for formulating strategic directions for the period after stockholm. we are certainly awaiting the commission's communication on this, hopefully in march, so that we can adopt strategic guidelines on this matter at the june european council at the latest. the day-to-day management of the problem in bulgaria, as in greece, italy and malta, cannot of course wait until march or june. it is something that is carried out daily under stressful, often dramatic, circumstances. i think we have understood from the interventions in the debate today what needs to be done. the commission has given its own answer. i want to assure you that i will convey to the council the observations and anxiety expressed here by all the speakers; the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it.
in writing. as we warned in previous debates about the situation of syrian refugees, it was only a matter of time before they reached the european union. with the exception of a few states, no country in the union has a real capacity to take in large numbers of refugees. this is also the case in bulgaria, which, faced with a large number of syrian refugees, cannot cope with the situation, and the conditions in which these people are housed are often very precarious. that is why i think we need more solidarity between member states. it is not normal that only a few countries should bear the full financial and humanitarian burden of refugee flows. i want to give you the example of romania, which, during the crisis in libya, volunteered to take in a significant number of libyan refugees.
mr. president, three years after the revolution, the situation in egypt is turbulent, and society is deeply polarized. the recent violence, including in the context of the organisation of the constitutional referendum, the terrorist attacks, the situation of the coptic minority are all sources of concern for us. at the same time, restrictions on freedom of expression, association or religion further polarize society. i was pleased to learn that stavros lambrinidis will be going to egypt to speak out about violence, about human rights violations, regardless of the perpetrators, and i am sure that he will ask, as we do, the egyptian authorities to investigate all possible abuses committed. we must not forget, on the other hand, that there are also positive signs in egypt. despite the very difficult context in which it was adopted, the egyptian constitution contains a number of important steps forward, in particular on the enshrinement of human rights and fundamental freedoms. finally, i cannot ignore the fact that there have been critical voices about the way we europeans have reacted to developments in egypt. i think, for now, our strategy is good. being neutral and open is the right strategy in the conditions i described earlier. i think we need to continue to contribute to the construction of a genuine political dialogue, because the polarization i mentioned is actually blocking the dialogue.
madam president, the eu policy towards russia is rather schizophrenic. the eu deliberately ignores its strategic contest with russia, and is willing to avoid confrontation, but refuses to recognise russia’s specific political traditions. the eu admits that russia is a strategic partner on whom european security depends, but constantly worsens its relations with russia by criticising its geopolitical identity. the eu feels that russia has strong competitive advantages, but does not mobilise its resources to balance them. the eu should not negotiate with russia as to the fate of third countries, delimit spheres of influence or promote bloc policies. nevertheless, the eu and russia should harmonise their policies while showing respect for their respective interests and the freedom of their common neighbours. the policies of the eu must be defined in accordance not only with its values but also with its strategic interest and with balance of power realities. moral values alone will never succeed. a european perspective alone will never prevail. we will win only if values and material power are associated: if we put our money where our mouth is. power is something that russia will understand and respect.
in writing. the violence on the streets of kiev is largely putin's doing. at the eu-russia summit last week, the kremlin leader drew a comparison between the protests in ukraine and those in greece. the difference that european leaders should have pointed out is that in the eu, street protests are free, and protesters are not brutalized by police. european leaders repeat in vain that the rapprochement of our eastern partnership neighbours with the eu does not preclude good relations with russia. moscow disagrees and has taken care to convey the message through diplomatic pressure, embargoes and other forms of economic blackmail (such as raising the price of exported energy). that's why armenia and ukraine have dropped their association agreements! it is likely that, after the sochi olympics, this kind of pressure will be intensified with regard to moldova and georgia. the separatist pressures we see in transnistria or in gagauzia are also the work of russia, the strategy adopted being that of georgia, which culminated in the war of 2008. if we want to support our eastern neighbours, we must speak with one voice with russia and not shy away from saying: stop!
mr president, i will only refer to the situation in macedonia in my speech and i will consider that what is happening in macedonia is actually a standard for the failure or success of our intra-european policies, because macedonia is a european country, and extra-european, and i am referring in particular to the neighbourhood policy that we discussed earlier. i think it is time to avoid a failure in terms of european integration. and i will not understand why from 2011 until today we only support this country in the parliament and the commission, but block this country in the council. i don't think we need to have a discussion about pride and i don't think the name issue is an issue that distances this country from the european path. if we are only seeing progress on political criteria, progress on economic criteria, i do not see why we have to reproach this country, through the council, with having very high unemployment. there are countries in the european union that are outpacing macedonia's unemployment. there are countries in the european union that have issues to be clarified between political parties. there are also countries in the european union where the relationship between the government and the press is not one of democratic standard. but this is blamed heavily on macedonia. i think we must stop this exercise of self-righteousness and ask the council to start negotiations beyond the name issue, because it is a blockage that affects not only the european path of this country but also the credibility of the european union in the eyes of all its citizens. i don't think we should block a country out of pride... (president interrupts speaker) )
in writing. the efforts made in the last year by macedonia and montenegro to meet the political and economic criteria in their evolution on the path to european integration. the european parliament's role is to ensure that the european union's involvement in the western balkans is extended to all the countries of the region in accordance with the democratic process and the results obtained in the process of building the rule of law. this is motivated by the desire to pursue positive transformations in both states. however, i regret that the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina is not sufficient, being qualified as limited by the european commission. as a member of the ep belonging to an ethnic minority community, the hungarian community in romania, i support the amendment to the resolution concerning the 2013 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina which seeks to protect the rights of ethnic minorities. this is a fundamental principle that must be respected in any state with european aspirations, and parliament must not make any concessions in this area.
madam president, commissioner, i fully agree with what mr koumoutsakos has said. i would like to emphasise that the stated objective of naiades ii is to create the conditions for inland waterway transport to become a high-quality, well-managed, efficient, safe, integrated in the intermodal chain, with high-quality jobs, occupied by skilled workers and with high environmental standards. we would point out that these objectives cannot be achieved without a european union strategy on inland waterways and without adequate union funding and, above all, without the involvement of all stakeholders. they also advocate that the transport and environmental aspects of the european union strategy for the danube region be integrated into the future european union strategy for inland waterways. i would point out here that the danube shipowners consider the conditions for using naiades to be too onerous, a right for which naiades has not been sufficiently used so far. as regards fleet modernisation and reorganisation, i would stress that social and, in particular, financial measures should be provided to support the sector. detailed and harmonised observation of the inland waterway transport market and of inland ports should also be used to help the commission strengthen research in the inland waterway transport sector. finally, the commission and the member states should revise the roadmap for research, development and innovation in the waterway sector to include port equipment and infrastructure.
in writing. - the aviation industry has undergone significant changes in recent years, associated with an increase in passenger numbers and flights on the liberalised european market. this generally positive development was accompanied to some extent by a number of unfair practices and a reduction in the quality of services, with negative consequences for travellers. in addition, since the entry into force of the regulation in 2004, problems have been identified with regard to a number of different interpretations, due to the grey areas and gaps in the current regulation, the uneven application in the member states and the difficulties of passengers in exercising their rights when air carriers breach the legislation. the incomplete and inconsistent implementation of the existing regulation by air carriers and national authorities is creating confusion for both passengers and the industry. in addition, passengers are not yet fully informed about their rights and are dissatisfied with the conditions and costs associated with their realisation.
in writing. - with the evolution of the aviation sector, which has allowed us to move faster within the european territory and beyond, there has also been a tendency towards unfair practices and a reduction in the quality of the services offered. this has had a negative impact on passengers over the years. for these reasons, we felt it was appropriate to work towards improving the existing framework of rights for passengers and we have approved this report, which increases the rights available to passengers in the event of non-performance or unfair practices.
in writing. - in recent years there has been an increase in the number of passengers and the number of flights in europe. this is beneficial for the union economy, facilitating free movement and reducing fragmentation of the single market. at the same time, this development of the aviation industry raises new problems at european level, in particular with regard to consumer protection. with the increase in the number of passengers, the quality of services decreases, if there is no good regulation in this regard. i support this report because there is a need for comprehensive legislation in this area to reduce confusion among passengers about their rights and among airlines about their obligations. many passengers refuse to go to court because of the high costs they have to bear in dealing with large international companies. this is exploited by airlines and results in the violation of fundamental rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 261/2004 laying down common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights and regulation (ec) no 2027/97 on air carrier liability for the carriage of passengers and their baggage by air. air transport services are paid for in advance by passengers and therefore air tickets should be considered as 'contracts with result', with airlines guaranteeing the fulfilment of contractual obligations with due diligence. i welcome the improvements brought about by the new regulation, in particular in terms of passenger information, baggage, cancellation or delay of a flight, and in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of an air carrier. thus, in the event of a passenger cancelling the flight, air carriers should be obliged to reimburse, free of charge, the fees already paid by the passenger. financial protection of passengers in the event of the bankruptcy of the airline is an essential component of an effective system of passenger rights. in order to strengthen the protection of airline passengers in the event of flight cancellations due to the insolvency of an air carrier, air carriers should be required to provide sufficient evidence to guarantee the reimbursement or repatriation of money to passengers.
in writing. - i voted against the report because the transition to a low-carbon economy must be gradual and without shocks to the economies of the member states, especially in the context of the crisis. it is clear that in the long term the union will have to move to a low carbon economy, but not at any cost and at the expense of economic recovery in europe. whether we are talking about nuclear energy, unconventional hydrocarbons or wind and solar energy, we must find a balanced energy mix that allows the development of states with the least possible impact on the environment. for example, romania has made efforts in recent years to diversify its energy supply sources, moving towards both conventional and unconventional and renewable sources.
in writing. - the 2030 framework for climate and energy policies must pay particular attention to the objectives of progress towards a competitive economy that uses fewer resources and can create new opportunities for quality jobs. measures are needed to anticipate and meet the skills needs for newly created jobs, to make changes in education and training systems and to meet new challenges in existing jobs that are becoming greener. active labour market policies should have clear objectives, respond to the needs of workers and the labour market, and avoid a shortage of skilled labour in new sustainable technologies and ensure access to quality jobs in the green economy for young people, women and disadvantaged groups. research on more sustainable resource extraction and innovative technologies should be encouraged to better protect the environment and improve working conditions for workers in the sector. the commission and the member states should promote more sustainable solutions for resource extraction.
in writing. - because energy efficiency is not yet a genuine global policy priority, studies suggest that we risk two thirds of the world's energy potential being untapped by 2035, with population and economic growth driving demand for energy to rise by more than 40% by 2030. already 95% of global warming is due to human activities, and climate change is increasing from year to year. european investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure would stimulate the fight against the negative effects of global warming and help reverse the upward trend in energy prices. that is why i support this report, which sets out an ambitious framework for action from significantly reducing energy consumption to completing the internal energy market. this is a key condition for the eu's overall energy security, based on sustainable and renewable energy sources within the eu, as europe is a continent limited in resources and dependent on imports, which account for 60% of natural gas, 80% of oil and 50% of coal used for energy production at eu level.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on amendment 27. i believe that the european union and, by implication, romania need a greater degree of energy independence and responsible exploitation of available resources. at the same time, the views of local communities must be taken into account at all times when the exploitation of these resources is being considered, especially when the safety assurance is not fully convincing. we want cheap energy, but safety has to come first. another reason for abstaining was that the european parliament cannot impose its views on local authorities, as this would violate both the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of local administrative autonomy. i also abstained in the final vote because the report contains many important provisions but also some that are at least questionable.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on a 2030 framework for climate and energy policies. increasing energy efficiency should be considered as one of the main components of the eu's climate and energy policy. energy efficiency contributes to conserving resources, reducing energy bills, dependence on imported fuels, trade deficits, improving the long-term competitiveness of the eu economy, and facilitating the reduction of eu greenhouse gas emissions. we call on member states to swiftly implement the energy efficiency directive and the energy performance of buildings directive. the potential of each economic sector and each economic situation must be taken into account when designing new energy efficiency policies. we call on the commission and the member states to set a binding eu target for 2030 of reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared to 1990 levels. measures to improve energy efficiency should focus on the energy supply and demand side as a whole, including transformation, transmission, distribution and supply, as well as on industrial consumption, consumption in buildings, including consumption by households, and transport.
in writing. - i believe that better integration of the internal market for banking services is essential to stimulate economic recovery in the union. the current financial and economic crisis has demonstrated that the functioning of the internal market in this area is in jeopardy. the main reason for the eu-wide responsibility and procedures is that, within the banking union, banking supervision through a single system, which will be the responsibility of the ecb, and bank resolution must be exercised by authorities at the same level. the establishment of a single resolution mechanism is therefore welcome as it will generate a single set of rules applicable to all failing banks in the participating member states and ensure effective procedures for the sound management of bank failures, minimising the cost to taxpayers and the economy.
in writing. - i voted for the amendments adopted by the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation laying down uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms in the framework of a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund and amending regulation (eu) no 1093/2010. the proposal for a regulation establishes uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of the following entities which are established by the participating member states: (a) credit institutions established in the participating member states; (b) parent undertakings established in one of the participating member states, including financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies, where they are subject to consolidated supervision by the ecb in accordance with article 4 (1) (i) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013; (c) investment firms and financial institutions established in the participating member states where they are subject to consolidated supervision by the ecb of the parent undertaking in accordance with article 4 (1) (i) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013. a participating member state is a member state whose currency is the euro or a member state whose currency is not the euro but which has established close cooperation in accordance with article 7 of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because food safety is a constant concern of european citizens. proper labelling and precise indication of the place of provenance are essential elements for preventing possible diseases or epidemics. in light of the recent horse meat scandals, i believe that traceability of meat products is absolutely necessary. consumers expect to be properly informed about the country of origin of meat, and this has been confirmed by recent studies and other surveys among european citizens.
in writing. - i voted against the recommendation, given the costs that the alternative system supported would entail for consumers, namely a price increase of 55% for pigmeat and 22% for chicken meat figures demonstrated by the commission's evaluations. the additional information provided to consumers, namely the country where the animal was born (in addition to the country where it was raised and the country where it was slaughtered) does not justify such increases, especially given the poor financial situation of many european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of fresh, chilled or frozen meat of swine, sheep, goats and poultry. in accordance with article 7 (1) of the regulation on food information to consumers, food information must not mislead the buyer as to the characteristics of the food and the country of origin or place of provenance. the commission implementing regulation goes beyond the implementing powers conferred on the commission by regulation (eu) no 1169/2011. we ask the commission to withdraw the implementing regulation and to draw up a revised version of the implementing regulation which should also include for unprocessed meat of animals of the porcine, ovine, caprine and poultry species a mandatory requirement to indicate on the label the place of birth as well as the place where the animal was reared and the place where it was slaughtered, in accordance with the legislation in force which provides for the indication on the label of the origin of beef or poultry meat. we also ask the commission to remove any derogation from the existing implementing regulation for minced meat and meat offal.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament's decision not to oppose the draft regulation amending regulation no 1031/2010 in particular to determine the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned during the period 2013-2020. directive 2003/87/ec provides that the timing, management and other aspects of auctions are to be established in such a way that they are open, transparent, harmonised and non-discriminatory. the commission should also monitor the functioning of the european carbon market. regulation no 1031/2010 provides for the volumes of allowances to be auctioned each year, after deduction of free allocations from the quantity of allowances issued that year at union level. however, regulation (eu) no 1210/2011 provides for a deviation from that timetable by setting a volume of allowances to be auctioned in advance before 2013, with corresponding reductions in the volumes to be auctioned in 2013 and 2014, with the main objective of ensuring a smooth transition from the second to the third trading period, taking due account of the need to cover the compliance risks in the first years of the third trading period.
the union has an important role to play in the settlement of the conflict in ukraine, since the so-called revolution was the spark that ignited the rapprochement between ukraine and the eu. in ukraine, the protesters are standing up for europe and the eu, and that gives us hope, but at the same time, we have to remember two things. the protesters are listening to the leaders of the opposition parties for now, but it's wrong to think that there would be chaos among them and that some groups would not consider themselves bound by a possible future agreement. the other aspect is the relation of ukrainian society. we also need to communicate with the eastern half of the country, which would benefit from closer cooperation between ukraine and the eu. in no way should the orientation of the country towards the east or the west be a question of either or. ukraine has always had close ties with russia, and will continue to do so even if it signs an association agreement with the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it may represent an additional way to put pressure on the authorities in kiev. we all saw the abuses committed by ukrainian security forces against protesters who were only asking for the country to go to the west and not return to russia. since the political trial and unjust sentencing of yulia tymoshenko, the yanukovych administration has done nothing but remove any trace of political opposition. but now the opposition has moved into the streets, and the impressive number of protesters seems to be starting to scare the kiev leadership. i too support the organisation of early parliamentary and presidential elections to give the ukrainian citizens the opportunity to confirm whether they want to continue the eastward path forced on them by president yanukovych.
in writing. - the eu has a duty to remain ready to sign an association or free trade agreement with ukraine as soon as a peaceful solution to the current internal political crisis is reached and the ukrainian side fulfils the requirements of the european parliament and the foreign affairs council. i support the resolution condemning any repression against the demonstrators and calling for a constructive political dialogue to stop the violence and defuse tensions. the european union has a key role to play in helping to mitigate polarisation and to affirm the democratic spirit in the politically and economically difficult context of ukraine.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution to resolve the crisis situation in ukraine. president viktor yanukovych, together with the former government, violated fundamental human rights. he was the 'head of the so-called 'lugansk people's republic' from the 'lugansk people's republic'. in july 2010, the constitutional court of ukraine voted amendments to the country's constitution that led to the change of the parliamentary republic into a presidential parliamentary republic. in january 2014, the ukrainian parliament voted 10 laws condemning and banning freedom of expression and association of citizens. these measures were taken to force the cessation of protests of ukrainian citizens. the new laws led to an abuse of power by the government, which used the army's special forces to kidnap and torture protest leaders. the demand of the ukrainian leadership to return to the 2004 constitution, which limits the rights of the president, i ask president yanukovych to resign and the ukrainian people to vote freely and decide whether they want the east or west.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament resolution on the situation in ukraine. demonstrations sparked more than two weeks ago by president yanukovych's decision not to sign the association agreement with the eu are still ongoing in the capital, and the discontent is spreading to other cities, including regions in eastern ukraine. we call for a political solution to the crisis and insist on a democratic debate on the ways and means to overcome the spirit of confrontation and division that ukraine is facing. we call on president yanukovych to put an end to the reprehensible mobilisation of berkut specialised riot police and other security forces, which provoked, kidnapped, harassed, tortured, beaten and humiliated the partisans of the euromaidan movement, as well as to arbitrary arrests and excessive prolonged pre-trial detentions. we call on the eu, the us, the imf, the world bank, the ebrd and the eib to continue preparations for a long-term financial support package to assist ukraine in its efforts to cope with the worsening financial and social situation and to provide economic support to support the government's initiation of the comprehensive reforms needed by the ukrainian economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i too am particularly concerned that the last round of negotiations did not find a concrete solution to end the tragedy facing the syrian people. there are already over 100,000 dead, and what concerns me is that the un has announced that it will no longer update this figure due to a lack of data. in addition to the huge number of victims, we also have 2.5 million syrian refugees, according to official figures. it is estimated that in the absence of an agreement to end the conflict, there will be over 4 million syrian refugees by the end of this year. in lebanon, for example, there are almost 900,000 refugees out of a total population of 4.5 million people 20% of the total.
in writing. - violence in syria rages on: the assad regime continues its campaign of murder, persecution and the displacement of civilians, while terrorist groups become more active amid the turmoil. the un office of the high commissioner for human rights stated in january that it can no longer accurately update the death toll of 100 000, which it announced last summer, as it is no longer able to gather information reliably on the ground. as the international community and aid organisations encounter difficulties gaining access inside syria, innocent civilians continue to suffer, caught in fighting from all sides. it is thus critical to make every effort possible to hasten the peace process in syria. i encourage the representatives at the geneva ii conference to continue the process of diplomacy. any viable solution must include all relevant political actors in syria, and must strongly reflect the syrian people’s wishes for democracy. i also applaud all efforts to provide aid and support to innocent civilians, including the efforts of those nations that have accommodated refugees fleeing syria. eu member states must ensure that they fulfil their humanitarian obligations to aid the victims of this conflict.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in syria. since the beginning of the violent crackdown on peaceful protesters in syria, more than 130 000 people, mostly civilians, have been killed. according to the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs, over 9 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance in syria, of which over 6.5 million are internally displaced, with over 2.3 million syrian refugees, mainly in turkey, jordan, lebanon, egypt and iraq. more than half of those affected are children, who suffer from hunger, malnutrition and disease. the lack of access to food, water, basic healthcare, sanitation, shelter and education is a critical dimension of this humanitarian catastrophe, and the delivery of humanitarian aid is hampered by lack of security, denial of access by the syrian authorities and obstacles posed by infrastructure. we condemn the assad regime's frequent violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, including acts of violence, systematic torture and executions of prisoners. we believe that the political solution should guarantee the unity, territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of syria. we support the geneva ii conference on syria, which should be the first step towards a process leading to a political and democratic settlement of the conflict, and we stress the importance of continuing the geneva ii process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i too hope that, after the approval of the new constitution in egypt, the situation will stabilize. the new fundamental law guarantees gender equality as well as religious freedom, which can only make us happy. however, there are certain provisions that concern me. first of all, i think the military will have too much power under the new constitution. second, although the constitution was adopted by an overwhelming majority, the fact that only 38% of eligible citizens turned out to vote in the referendum is a sign that there is no broad consensus on the fundamental law. i hope that by the next election, the authorities will be able to engage with all the currents of opinion in the country and find a way to political stability.
in writing. - in january 2011, millions of people took to the streets in egypt, demanding democratic governance, an end to corruption and respect for human rights. and in romania, people fought and died for these ideals, in communist prisons and in december 1989. the terrorist attacks in cairo in recent weeks show the fragility of egyptian democracy. on 24 january, at least 6 people were killed and 100 others were injured in four attacks on security forces. we call on the egyptian authorities to investigate these cases and to punish those responsible. where the law does not apply, there is no democracy. we also call on the authorities in cairo to implement the provisions of the new constitution approved by referendum. the european union allocates a considerable budget to egypt, supports the democratization of the country, but this relationship is a two-way street, and the money from the european union comes with values that must be respected.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in egypt. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as social justice and a higher standard of living for citizens, are essential elements of the transition towards an open, free, stable, democratic and prosperous egyptian society. egypt's economy is in deep trouble. since 2011, the unemployment rate has increased and poverty has worsened. we believe that the country's economic prosperity requires political stability, sound economic policies, the fight against corruption, as well as international support. we condemn all acts of violence, terrorism, incitement, harassment, hate speech and censorship. we urge all political actors and security forces to exercise the utmost restraint and avoid provocations, to avoid further acts of violence, in the supreme interest of the country. we welcome and support the efforts of the vice-president of the commission/high representative, catherine ashton, and the special representative, bernardino león, to mediate between the parties in order to resolve the current political crisis. we urge the council, the vp/hr and the commission to take into account, in their bilateral relations with egypt and in their financial support to egypt, both the principle of conditionality (more for more) and the serious economic problems egypt is facing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the union's relations with russia need to be redefined, particularly in the light of last week's summit and the recent developments in the eastern neighbourhood. first, the russian federation should understand that the union is not a threat. i would like to mention here that russia constantly blocks union projects aimed at strengthening relations with its eastern neighbours. after all, we do not force anyone to join or strengthen their relations with the union. or russia is practicing a diplomacy that many might define as economic blackmail. recent examples from ukraine, the republic of moldova and armenia are telling. moscow must understand that it is the right of the citizens of ukraine or the republic of moldova to decide their own future.
in writing. - the eu-russia summit of 28 january 2014 provided an opportunity to reflect on the nature and direction of the strategic partnership and to clarify some points of disagreement. over the years, the eu and russia have developed deep and extensive relations, not only in the fields of energy, economy and trade, but also in external security, the movement of people and culture (the so-called 'four common spaces'). nevertheless, europe stresses the need for a sustained and constructive dialogue to discuss developments in our common neighbourhood, including ukraine, in the collective interest, as it would extend the area of stability, prosperity and cooperation across borders.
in writing. - last week's summit between the union and the russian federation was not the expected success and was devoid of substance. it is important that the agenda is not limited to two main points of discussion: the creation of a visa-free regime and the presence of gazprom on the european market. we need to address the acute problems of our common neighbours. the pressure put on ukraine, armenia or moldova before the vilnius summit demonstrates the will of the russian federation to bring the post-soviet states into the eurasian union. we cannot ignore the protests in ukraine, the border issues in abkhazia and south ossetia, or the harassment and intimidation in the separatist transnistrian region. the russian federation must respect the principles of international law and the conventions to which it is a party, and if it does not, it must be responded to, and not with 3 rows of velvet gloves. the principle of sovereignty and independence of the countries neighbouring the russian federation and the sovereign right to choose their own political and commercial alliances must be respected by the russian federation.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament resolution on the eu-russia summit. enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia are of major importance for the stability, security and prosperity of europe and in particular the common neighbourhood area. the development of a strategic partnership between the eu and the russian federation can only be based on shared values shared by both partners, as enhanced international cooperation between these two partners in all institutions, organisations and fora is of paramount importance in order to improve global governance and overcome common challenges. i consider energy cooperation to be of particular importance to both sides as it represents an opportunity to deepen economic and trade cooperation in an open and transparent market, taking full account of the eu's need to diversify transport channels and energy suppliers. we believe that this cooperation should be based on the principles of interdependence and transparency, together with equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment. we call for eu-russia energy cooperation to be based on the principles of the internal market, including the third energy package, in particular on third party access, and the energy charter treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i am forced, as i was last year, to note once again the lack of progress by bosnia and herzegovina in its dialogue with the european union. it is the only balkan state that is not actually making efforts to reform and align itself with european standards. although there is a declarative desire, in practice the process is static. the effects of this situation are multiple: on the one hand, we are shown that politicians in bosnia and herzegovina put personal and party interests above those of the country, and on the other hand, a culture of discrimination is still promoted, as access to some public offices is allowed only to the 3 ethnic groups recognized by the constitution. this state risks moving away from the union, with negative consequences in particular for its citizens.
in writing. - the protests of the past few weeks, the most violent since the declaration of independence of bosnia and herzegovina, are a symptom of the deep crisis that the economy of this state is going through, but also of the crisis of trust that affects the relations between citizens and authorities. i voted in favour of the resolution expressing the deep disappointment of the ep forum at the persistent lack of a common vision of the political leaders of the three ethnic communities. plagued by endemic corruption, bosnia and herzegovina is one of the poorest countries in europe. the inefficiency of the judiciary, the proportions of organised crime, the lack of respect for press freedom are some of the serious shortcomings that risk undermining the democratization process, but also the already fragile statehood of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2013 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. taking into account the situation in bosnia and herzegovina with regard to the fact that political activities have continued to be hampered by political disagreements and the financial unsustainability of the public administration, its fragmentation and politicization and the lack of political support for its reform, i support the european union's call on these two governments to establish an effective eu coordination mechanism to ensure the harmonised transposition and application of the acquis throughout the country, in order to ensure the general prosperity of citizens.
in writing. - bosnia and herzegovina continues to face major obstacles on the path toward eu accession. as a result of the lack of political will on the part of its leaders, its citizens suffer from the effects of corruption and political division. the economic situation is dire: the unemployment rate is over 43%, one of the highest in the world. corruption runs rampant: 20% of adult citizens have participated in or witnessed bribery of a public official. ethnic discrimination is still institutionalised because the government has failed to implement reforms requested in the european court of human rights ruling in the sejdic-finci case. i welcome the reaffirmation of our commitment to promoting reform in bosnia and herzegovina. reforming the rule of law is crucial to the citizens’ welfare. political leaders must exercise the will to implement the constitutional reform that will eliminate ethnic discrimination in the country’s institutions and increase transparency. the judiciary must become fully independent and efficient, and must work with the law enforcement authorities to prosecute those guilty of corruption. the authorities responsible must focus on high-level corruption cases. at the end of the day, this will be the test of the judiciary and of the political class.
in writing. - the annual resolution of the european parliament following the european commission's 2013 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina draws attention to the failure of bosnia and herzegovina to fulfil its obligations with a view to eu accession. the lack of a real commitment of the authorities to the eu is visible both at the institutional and political culture level and in the economic and social sector. the eu is increasingly concerned about the unresolved issues of regional cooperation and corruption, money laundering and organised crime, without being able to draw up a positive report. the inefficiency of the institutional architecture and the lack of structural reforms and a common vision are preventing bosnia and herzegovina from moving forward on the european path. i welcome the calls in the report, such as those on education reform and allocation of resources to children's education, the protection of minority rights and anti-discrimination policies, freedom of expression and the promotion of media pluralism.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the 2013 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina (bih), of the other part, was signed on 16 june 2008 and has been ratified by all eu member states and by bosnia and herzegovina. we urge political leaders to focus on the implementation of the high level dialogue roadmap, thus enabling the requirements for the entry into force of the saa to be met. we call on political groups at all levels of power in the country to intensify cooperation and dialogue to overcome existing disputes, with the aim of making progress on reforms and improving the lives of bih citizens. we are concerned that there has been limited progress on women's rights and gender equality, although legal provisions are in place. we call for the full implementation of relevant legislation and policies, including in the context of the electoral law, before the 2014 general elections, as well as for concrete measures to be taken to increase the participation of women in the workforce and in politics.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution and i support macedonia's european path. this is the fifth consecutive year that the european commission has recommended opening negotiations with the country. unfortunately, the country name issue persists, blocking a decision in the council. i think this situation needs to be overcome, because the current impasse is not in the best interests of greece or macedonia. on the one hand, macedonia could gradually lose interest in the european path as the union closes its doors. thus, there is a risk that the economic reforms that have been started will be stopped. on the other hand, greece has absolutely nothing to gain from the blockade. there is a risk that in the future a general state of discontent with the european union will be created in macedonia, which may lead to instability in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the european council to set a date for the opening of negotiations for macedonia's accession to the european union. after five consecutive years of delays, despite the positive recommendation of the commission, there is a risk that the lack of a clear european perspective will dampen the pace of reforms and amplify internal tensions. i believe that the eu should consider massive alignment with the european acquis and fulfillment of the copenhagen criteria and stimulate the macedonian side's efforts to make progress on justice, democracy and human rights by opening chapters 23 and 24. there are a number of sensitive issues that need to be further monitored and it is up to the macedonian authorities to take concrete action to resolve them: from clarifying the dispute over the name of the state, to fighting corruption and ending discrimination against roma, in particular the segregation of roma children in schools.
in writing. - to continue the process of european integration in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, it is necessary to create a positive environment to smooth out the current differences with regard to the european values platform and principles. the commission has expressed several concerns, for example, about the safeguarding of freedom of expression and the management of the media, which is not entirely free from political interference. new initiatives must be developed to find a common solution and overcome the current deadlock. the opening of negotiations with the eu will also serve as input to resolve the current disputes with neighbouring countries and generate reforms to improve the country's situation.
in writing. - i am disappointed that the council has not yet opened accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. this is a clear failure on the part of the council. bilateral political disputes must be solved at a bilateral level and should not be an impediment to the european accession process. in spite of the challenges that macedonia continues to face as a result of that unacceptable position, the copenhagen criteria have been met to a degree at which talks can begin; and the process of accession negotiations will assist macedonia in achieving further crucial reforms. although there is more work to be done, macedonia has made great strides in recent years on fighting corruption and promoting the rule of law. i encourage macedonia to uphold the highest standards of professionalism, transparency and fairness among its public administrators and to work for the independence and integrity of its media and its judiciary. i also urge it to prioritise the fight against corruption, particularly by further pursuing high-level corruption cases. as macedonia continues to make substantial progress towards these goals, we must uphold our commitment by moving forward with accession negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2013 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. macedonia was granted eu candidate status by the european council decision of 16 december 2005. we welcome the fulfilment by this country of its commitments under the stabilisation and association agreement and the advanced stage of alignment of its legislation with the acquis. we support the view that all candidate and potential candidate countries should be treated on their own merits in the integration process and reiterate the call on the council to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations without delay. we invite greece to use its presidency of the european union to boost the country's european integration process, thereby reaffirming its commitment to the thessaloniki agenda of 2003 and creating a positive environment for the resolution of bilateral differences in the spirit of european values and principles. we invite the greek presidency to build on the positive momentum of its leadership to develop new initiatives to overcome the current impasse in the negotiations and to find a solution. we stress that good relations with neighbouring countries are an essential pillar in the country's eu accession process, and also imply the finding, under the auspices of the un, of a negotiated solution acceptable to both sides on the name issue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i am a supporter of enlargement. at present, we can say that montenegro is the country most advanced in the process of negotiating with the union, so it could become the next member of the eu when it fulfils all the conditions for accession. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact that problems remain with the functioning of the judiciary, but also with the fight against organised crime and corruption. i would also like to see a more concrete public debate on the future of the union's enlargement process in the context of the european elections. i hope that the future european commission, as well as the new european parliament, will give more serious consideration to reinventing the thessaloniki agenda by giving a prospect of accession to other states, such as the republic of moldova.
in writing. - the resolution we voted for welcomes the opening of five new chapters in the montenegro-eu negotiations in december 2013. the montenegrin authorities have already made significant progress and we want to encourage bilateral cooperation for a faster progress of the accession negotiations. the resolution stresses the importance of continuing and implementing reforms, in particular in the field of public administration, with a view to implementing the acquis communautaire and justice, by simplifying and streamlining the judicial system. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the need for more intensive efforts to ensure effective border controls in order to combat organised crime and smuggling operations along the so-called 'balkan route'.
in writing. - the enthusiasm widely shared by the entire political spectrum and society in general for the european project has enabled montenegro to take important steps towards eu integration. however, montenegro needs to resolve some internal problems and achieve concrete results in the area of the rule of law before full integration into the union. the government must demonstrate the utmost transparency throughout the negotiation and accession process, including by promptly and transparently informing civil society organisations and the public about the progress of the accession negotiations and facilitating their broad participation in the process.
in writing. - montenegro has recently made commendable progress on the path to eu accession, as outlined in this resolution. yet the country still struggles to implement reforms and maintain the rule of law, as evidenced by its ranking as 67th on the transparency international corruption index. the montenegrin judicial system must become more independent, predictable and effective: judges and prosecutors must be appointed in a transparent and merit-based manner; the jurisprudence must be unified; and common criteria for judicial training must be applied. the investigation and prosecution of war crimes, in particular, must be pursued more rigorously. on the fight against corruption, montenegrin authorities must focus on high-level corruption cases. this is the test of the judiciary and of the political class. in addition, confiscating criminal assets, convicting money launderers and targeting the misuse of public funds should be further encouraged and observed as metrics of success. while the government of montenegro is taking important steps to lay the groundwork for reform, the difficult task of fully implementing these reforms still lies ahead. the eu should continue to push and support the montenegrin government not only to put in place the reforms but also to commit the political will and resources, including adequate funding, that are necessary to enact them in full.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2013 progress report on montenegro. we welcome the opening of five new negotiating chapters in december 2013 and encourage a rapid development of the accession negotiations, provided that reforms are pursued and implemented and results are achieved. we urge all political forces, in government or opposition, as well as the main social and economic actors to remain focused on the country's eu integration timetable through sustained dialogue and constructive cooperation. we welcome the resolution on the method, quality and dynamics of the process of integration of montenegro into the eu, adopted by the parliament of montenegro on 27 december 2013. we believe that the integration process must involve parliament and civil society organisations fully and enjoy broad democratic support. we stress the need to increase public confidence in the electoral system and democratic structures and call on the parliament to accelerate electoral reform by amending the set of laws governing elections and the financing of political parties. we stress the importance of public administration reform in order to implement the acquis and consider it essential to strengthen the mechanism for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the public administration strategy and to take further steps with a view to creating a transparent, professional, effective and merit-based administration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it deals with a serious violation of the rights of girls and women. it is worrying that this practice still exists in europe, and i confess that the number of people affected by this phenomenon appalls me. these girls and women, if they survive the mutilation, are left with physical and psychological traumas that are hard to imagine. physicians who agree to perform such an intervention should be excluded from medical practice; the very attempt to do so should be criminalised. cultural and traditional values should in no case be used as an excuse to practice genital mutilation of children, girls or women.
in writing. - we voted for this report, which is very important because it concerns first of all women's rights to bodily integrity, but also their equality with men. the report 'welcomes the commission communication 'eliminating fgm' in which the commission commits to using eu funds to prevent fgm and improve assistance to victims, including the protection of women at risk, in line with eu asylum rules and, together with the european external action service (eeas), to strengthen international dialogue and encourage research to clearly identify women and girls at risk'. the report is therefore of particular importance to member states, as they must, in their migration policies, track migrants to third countries where these practices are normal and consequently not allow them to take place on eu territory.
in writing. - as female genital mutilation is a form of violence against women and girls and constitutes a violation of their fundamental rights, as well as a violation of the principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, i consider it absolutely necessary that the fight against female genital mutilation be included in a general and coherent approach to combating violence against women at european level and beyond.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 6 february 2014 on the commission communication entitled 'elimination of female genital mutilation (fgm) '. sadly, according to who, an estimated 140 million children, girls and women, have been subjected to this crude form of gender-based violence globally. this cruel practice has been reported in 28 african countries, yemen, northern iraq and indonesia. we reiterate the call on the commission to present an eu legislative proposal establishing prevention measures against all forms of violence against women and, as indicated in the stockholm programme, a comprehensive eu strategy on this issue, including further structured joint action plans to end genital mutilation in the eu. we reiterate the call on member states to use existing mechanisms, in particular directive 2012/29/eu, including training of those working in the field of the protection of women and girls, and to prosecute and punish any resident who has committed the crime of fgm, even if the crime was committed outside the borders of the member state concerned. we demand that the principle of extraterritoriality be included in the criminal law of all member states so that the offence can be punished equally in all member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because inland waterway transport is not yet exploited to its full potential in the union. this is because, unfortunately, waterways are not always of the highest standard. whether it is transportation blockages or other infrastructure problems, there are still shortcomings. therefore, member states, with the financial support of the commission, must make every effort to revive inland waterway transport. i give you the example of the danube-main-rhine canal which, although it could become the main freight transportation axis between east and west europe, is not used to its full capacity. only in recent years, after the adoption of the danube strategy, have some countries such as romania or serbia made joint efforts to streamline navigation on the danube.
in writing. - i consider it beneficial for europe to introduce inland waterways in six of the nine corridors of the ten-t primary network and support the need to improve the cross-border sections of the primary network and to finance telematic application systems, which allow for the provision of adequate river information services. they also support the need to involve all local and regional partners and to encourage the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the field in order to ensure adequate infrastructure that will allow waterway transport to play the role of a reliable and cost-effective mode of transport. to this end, i believe that member states should cooperate in drawing up national strategies to stimulate inland waterway transport, taking into account the european action programme.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the naiades ii programme an action programme on inland waterway transport. the inland waterway transport sector makes a significant contribution to the eu transport system by transporting goods between ports and the hinterland. we welcome the commission's initiative to update and renew the naiades programme by 2020 and support the specific actions defined in the naiades ii action programme for 2014-2020. i stress the importance of ensuring adequate funding for new technologies, innovation and sustainable transport services within existing eu programmes such as the connecting europe facility, horizon 2020 and the cohesion fund to stimulate the use of innovation outputs and improve the environmental performance of inland waterway transport, and i ask the commission to develop concrete funding programmes to achieve this. we call on the commission to submit proposals on the mobilisation of the reserve funds, using them together with the financial instruments available under the existing union funds. we also invite member states to continue to develop national strategies to stimulate inland waterway transport, taking into account the european action programme, and to encourage regional and local port authorities to do the same.
the author. - mr president, commissioner füle, as the author and initiator of these resolutions, i thank my colleagues from all the political groups for understanding the gravity of the situation in the transnistrian region and for supporting me and cristi preda in putting this subject on the plenary agenda. the regime's provocations in tiraspol culminated yesterday with the detention and humiliation of the headmaster of the lyceum lucian blaga, two employees and six peacekeepers. these tensions are also fuelled by the presence of russian troops in the region, which is why i have called for an amendment to replace them with a civilian peacekeeping mission. at the same time, i believe that the much-lauded 5+2 has shown its limits and inefficiency and needs to be reconsidered. the union must become a full member on an equal footing with russia and be much more vocal in resolving the transnistrian conflict. finally, i call on pro-european prime minister leancă to support the right to education in romanian more firmly.
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs vergiat, i would like to know what you consider an emergency: if arresting a school principal simply because he wants classes to be taught in romanian is not an emergency, what is an emergency for you?
the european union has already taken action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. outward discrimination takes on increasingly threatening forms. the accounts of romanian schools have been blocked and the headmaster of the lucian blaga high school in tiraspol was arrested yesterday. the reason? he brought from the ministry of education in chisinau the salaries of his colleagues in the official currency of the republic of moldova, which was considered a crime, and the salaries were confiscated as undeclared foreign currency. it is unacceptable that the right to education is used as a tool of negotiation and pressure in the geopolitical games of the self-proclaimed authorities of the transnistrian region. the residents of this region, who are citizens of the republic of moldova, want their rights to be respected, including the right to education in the only official language of the moldovan state, the romanian language. the political situation in the area, as complicated as it is, should not affect children, parents, teachers and schools. education must be depoliticized and harassment of any kind against romanian-language educational institutions must stop. i think it's our duty to make sure that the messages we send out don't go unanswered. i think it is necessary for a delegation of the european parliament to go to transnistria to ensure that the exercise of the fundamental right to education returns to normal. i am convinced that the visa liberalisation with the republic of moldova will also have a positive impact in the field of education. that is why i hope for a favourable vote in the coming weeks in the libe committee and in the plenary and i hope that this visa liberalisation will materialize by the end of this mandate of the european parliament.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, for several years there have been two political trends in moldova. one is secessionist and isolationist. it is supported by regions like transnistria or gagauzia. it's also the view of the communist party. russian troops in moldova are the political instrument of this orientation. the other trend is unionist and pro-european. it is supported by citizens who want a single country, who believe that visa-free travel within the union should be possible, who see a greater opportunity in the european market than the russian market. in recent years, the unionist orientation has received encouragement from brussels and has been helped by pro-european unionists in romania. the confrontation between the two camps has another dispute in the background: although officially we are strategic partners, russia does not respect our options and treats us as adversaries. we've already lost the confrontation with putin in georgia and armenia, we're in a very bad position in ukraine. we could win at least in moldova. what do you say, commissioner füle?
mr president, last year a teacher who taught romanian in the separatist region of transnistria told me: 'our children, to come to school to learn, walk tens of kilometres, come with risks. where is the certainty that he, the child, will come home unbowed, that his little bundle will be whole, that no one will push him and give him a kick when they hear him speak romanian? yesterday, the headmaster ion iovcev from the romanian language high school lucian blaga in tiraspol and the accountant, were detained for several hours on charges of introducing foreign currency. the currency was moldovan lions for the payment of teachers' salaries. today, the principal and the accountant spent over four hours in interrogation and came out without payroll and without the high school stamp. three months ago, russian officers came into the principal's office and the principal told me, "we are hostages", and a high school student wrote, "yesterday they surrounded the high school and today they came to arrest the principal". in january i wrote to the separatist leader shevchuk and told him that he uses tactics similar to those used by the russian federation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, exactly seven years ago, in february 2007, the separatist authorities of transnistria destroyed and desecrated the romanian cemetery in tighina, where romanian soldiers from the second world war were buried. the separatist authorities did not dig up the bodies, but only levelled the ground with bulldozers. the broken crosses were used to pave the roads. on the site of the former romanian cemetery a monument to the russian liberator soldier was built. i recalled this episode that happened exactly seven years ago to outline a picture of the transnistrian regime, which for many years has been carrying out an irresponsible attack against romanian-language schools in this area of the republic of moldova. i would remind you that these events are not local or national in nature, but are in fact linked to the fundamental choice between two value systems: one european and the other diametrically opposed. in conclusion, i call for a clear and firm resolution by the european parliament to defend the dignity of the transnistrian school principal and his colleagues, humiliated by the authorities for the simple fact that they defended the romanian language and did their duty.
in writing. i protest against the abuses of the separatist authorities of the so-called transnistrian republic and condemn the discriminatory treatment of the romanian population in the region. the pressure on romanian schools, whose accounts have been illegally blocked and teachers' salary money confiscated, is outrageous. the case of the arrest of the headmaster of the lyceum "lucian blaga" in tiraspol and two other employees of the school is eloquent for the human rights situation in transnistria. the european union has a duty to stand in solidarity with these citizens humiliated and assaulted at its borders. i call on the commission, the council and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe to act vigorously and urgently to bring an end to these abuses and to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of the people of transnistria, including to education in their mother tongue. i also call on the european forums to abandon the comfortable expectation they have indulged in so far in the face of this dangerous frozen conflict in the eu's immediate vicinity.
in writing. – over the past year, human rights watch has reported that the bahraini government’s security forces have arrested numerous civilians ‘arbitrarily’, and tortured and mistreated people in detention. substantial reform in bahrain seems a distant hope at this time, as those who might lead reform efforts are often silenced by the government. the major challenge presented by this situation obliges us to continue pushing and supporting the bahraini government to make significant progress in changing its policies. i echo the resolution’s praise of the bahraini government’s recent meeting with opposition leaders participating in the national consensus dialogue, as well as efforts to reform the judiciary and to comply with the recommendations of the bahraini independent commission of inquiry. yet justice will not be achieved until nabeel rajab, abdulhadi-al-khawaja, ebrahim sharif, and other ‘prisoners of conscience’ are released, and the law is applied equally and fairly across bahrain. thus, i strongly urge the government of bahrain to heed the urging of the european union and proceed with reforms without delay.
mr. chairman, i propose that at the end of paragraph 4 we add, updating the information: culminating with the detention of the principal, the accountant and the driver of the high-school on 5th february 2014. culminating with the detention of the principal, the accountant and the driver of the high school on 5 february 2014
mr president, as in the previous case, this is an update. i propose that at the end of this recital we add: whereas on 5th february, the principal, the accountant and the driver of lucian blaga high-school were detained, while they were transporting the salaries of the high-school staff. whereas on 5 february the principal, the accountant and the driver of the lucian blaga high school were detained while they were transporting the salaries of the high school's staff.
the agreement amending regulation 443 of 2009 sets the target of 95 grams of carbon dioxide per km as from 2020 as the average of the emissions for the fleet of new passenger cars registered in the european union. increasing the efficiency and sustainability of new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will reduce the union's dependence on oil imports. the beneficiaries of the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from cars will be both consumers and the environment. it is important not only to reduce fuel consumption but at the same time to maintain the competitive advantage of the european automotive industry on the global market. however, the lack of an alternative fuels infrastructure and of common technical specifications for the vehicle-infrastructure interface could be an obstacle to the marketing of very low carbon vehicles. therefore, it is also important to provide the necessary infrastructure that would facilitate access to energy efficient vehicles. in conclusion, it is important to give the car industry the time it needs to adapt its production lines - we know that it takes seven years from the time of design to the time of market entry for such a vehicle.
in writing. – legislation has driven fuel efficiency and genuine co2 reductions since 2009. the negotiations on this file have been difficult and i congratulate my colleagues on the final outcome which, although not as ambitious as we might have hoped, will ensure that passenger cars continue to become more and more fuel efficient in the coming years. this will mean lower fuel costs for drivers, less localised atmospheric pollution, and lower greenhouse gas emissions. i particularly welcome the provision to revise and update the test methods to ensure a more accurate measurement of co2 emissions from cars and to prevent manipulation of emission readings.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the inta committee. - for many businesses in the european union and their customers, the brand is the symbol of a quality product or service. unfortunately, according to the european commission, the value of the goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights and seized by the authorities in the european union was approximately one billion euros in 2012. this type of counterfeiting causes significant losses to european companies, reduces the union's potential for economic growth and can present numerous health risks to consumers using a product that does not meet the same quality standards. the european union must therefore act to stop counterfeiting, including on the internet. i would like to draw attention to the fact that when we talk about trade in counterfeit products, the union is at the same time obliged to respect the rules of international trade, including article 5 of gatt, which refers to facilitating the transit of goods, and, not least, the european union cannot restrict the transit of generic medicines, being a signatory to the declaration on the trips agreement and public health.
in 2012, over 100 thousand community trade mark applications were filed, double the number filed 10 years ago. this development has been accompanied by increasing expectations on the part of those interested in benefiting from trademark registration systems that are more coherent, more accessible to the public and more technologically advanced. i support the enhancement of the accessibility and efficiency for business of the trade mark registration systems in the european union. this can be achieved by reducing costs and complexity, increasing speed, increasing predictability and legal certainty. i believe that the current advances in information technology allow users to have access to better alternatives for national and european union research. i support the development of a set of tools that provide much better means of conducting priority searches and monitoring the register for the detection of counterfeits.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with great attention to your discussions and exchanges. i am grateful to you for all the contributions to a package which, as you have well understood, involves very important issues for our economy in general, particularly on the difficult and sensitive issue of goods in transit. i would just like to stress a few points, by telegraph. i think brands play a very structuring role in the trade. we can see, moreover, in regions that did not have this trademark culture, i am thinking of china, where i was a few weeks ago, that, as far as patents, trademarks and appellations of controlled origin are concerned, a real change is now taking place to take into account the interests of the productions of these countries. it is legitimate for us to be concerned about the protection of each other in a good and intelligent way. these brands protect the investments of companies and they help create for the future. the exponential growth of counterfeiting is a clear demonstration of the value of these brands and the importance they have for consumers. it is therefore important and essential to modernise the framework for their release and to improve their protection. firstly, our ability to give a credible response to the challenge of counterfeiting in transit will be seen as a test of our determination as europeans to enforce our own laws. i think it's important not to miss this test. if we fail, that would be the best encouragement. i think that's mr. rapkay and mrs. gallo's idea for counterfeiters of all stripes. i would like to tell mr cutaş that i have listened, as i have just done to mr gargani, to the level of ambition which i proposed in my initial text on this matter and which i have verified with our legal service in particular, and which is clearly respectful, consistent and compatible with our international obligations, particularly within the world trade organisation. second and last point: let us not allow structural logic or strictly financial considerations to obscure or eclipse the need to make trade marks more easily accessible and less costly for our companies, and in particular for smes. that is the point of the financial part of the proposals you are discussing, and i thank you for that.
rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to start by saying ‘mission fulfilled’. raportoare. - obiectiv îndeplinit. acum dezbatem și mâine votăm directiva privind punerea sub sechestru și confiscarea banilor și a bunurilor provenite din infracțiuni. confiscarea banilor infractorilor se va face mai ușor și mai repede și toți vom avea de câștigat. în primul rând, vor câștiga cetățenii pentru că, în bugetele publice, vor fi mai mulți bani pentru școli, spitale sau pensii. vor câștiga bugetele naționale și bugetul uniunii, pentru că acestea vor crește. numai în 2009, traficul de droguri, contrafacerea, traficul de ființe umane și de arme mici au produs 2,1 trilioane de dolari și numai 1% din aceste venituri uriașe sunt puse sub sechestru sau confiscate. aceasta înseamnă nimic. banii rămân la infractori și noi pierdem. confiscarea nu este folosită în toate statele membre, iar legile la nivel național sunt inegale, consecința este dezastruoasă: lăsăm miliarde de euro pe an să fie spălați și băgați în economia ilicită sau subterană, sau în rețele criminale. negocierile au fost dure, dar avem astăzi o directivă nouă, prin care introducem norme minime la nivelul uniunii și introducem noi modalități de confiscare. de exmplu, se vor putea confisca bani și bunuri chiar dacă inculpatul este bolnav sau a plecat din țară și procesul penal nu se finalizează printr-o condamnare. un pilon important al directivei este confiscarea extinsă a veniturilor care nu se pot justifica legal. de exemplu, dacă ești condamnat pentru o sumă mică de trafic de droguri - 1000 de euro - judecătorul îți evaluează toată averea și, dacă nu o poți justifica, ți-o confiscă, prezumând că provine tot din trafic de droguri. în calitate de raportor am urmărit cu prioritate să aplicăm confiscarea extinsă în cât mai multe cazuri. astfel, ea, potrivit directivei, se va aplica în cazurile de: 1) corupție activă și pasivă în sectorul public și privat, plus corupție în cazul oficialilor europeni; 2) participarea la rețele de crimă organizată; 3) pornografie infantilă; 4) criminalitate informatică și 5) orice infracțiune pedepsită de lege cu cel puțin patru ani închisoare. un alt pilon important al acestei directive este confiscarea de la terți. grupurile de criminalitate organizată transferă bunuri și bani către terțe persoane în scopul de a evita confiscarea. de exemplu: o persoană acumulează venituri prin infracțiuni, apoi vinde sau face cadou sau pune pe numele altora aceste venituri. în aceste situații confiscarea se va putea face dacă bunul se vinde sub prețul pieței sau se donează sau există indicii că nu a fost o tranzacție reală. în plus, am reușit să introducem în directivă noțiunea de reutilizare socială a bunurilor confiscate. aceasta înseamnă că proprietățile confiscate vor putea fi folosite în interesul comunităților afectate sau în scopuri sociale sau, ca în italia sau marea britanie, pentru cumpărarea de mașini sau alte echipamente necesare în lupta împotriva marii criminalități. această directivă trebuie însă urmată de un pas și mai curajos: într-o declarație comună, inclusă în directivă, parlamentul și consiliul cer comisiei să studieze posibilitatea introducerii procedurii de confiscare, în lipsa unei condamnări penale, chiar prin proceduri civile. confiscarea civilă a dat rezultate foarte bune în statele uniunii în care se aplică. de exemplu, în marea britanie, hotărârile civile de confiscare au vizat numai într-un an de zile, 2011 -2012, 11 milioane de lire sterline. sau: în aprilie 2013, bunuri în valoare de 1,2 miliarde de euro au fost confiscate de la un om de afaceri italian cu legături mafiote - între aceste bunuri: 43 de companii, 98 de proprietăți, 66 de conturi bancare și altele. deci, numai dacă luăm averile infractorilor vom putea îndrăzni a crede că reducem marea criminalitate. trimiterea unor oameni la închisoare, dar lăsarea banilor murdari în circulație, nu mai poate fi tolerată. de aceea, trebuie să facem și pasul confiscării prin proceduri civile. aș vrea să mulțumesc, înainte de a termina, comisiei, celor două președinții sub care am negociat, cea irlandeză și cea lituaniană, celorlalți raportori din grupurile politice, în special ritei și soniei.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you for this debate. i am sorry i arrived a couple of minutes late, but you were in good hands with my colleague michel barnier. as has been said, organised crime is an enormously profitable business. billions and billions of the income from organised crime – selling people, drugs, weapons or other things – are invested in yachts, expensive houses, hotels, gold, money, etc., and this is money that belongs to the victims and to the citizens. that is why it is so important to hit the criminals where it hurts most: getting the money. and that is why this directive is extremely important. i would like to thank ms macovei. i know she has been tirelessly working on this, with the shadows and others, but she has shown great personal commitment in finally getting an agreement on this very important directive. concerning the declaration, we take note that it will be issued shortly; we plan to launch the study before the end of the year, and we will come back to that as soon as we have more details. i am also very happy that we can decide on this before the elections. you will have an important instrument to present to the voters, and we will start implementing it as soon as possible. i am also particularly happy that the directive addresses the issue of social re-use. it is optional, but i have seen many very good examples of good practice, for instance in italy, and i know what an important tool this can be. this clearly improves the current legislation. the commission supports the compromise as finally agreed by the co-legislators, and we are looking forward to strong support tomorrow.
the reporter. - firstly, it is very important that member states transpose this directive quickly and correctly. secondly, it's important that we take the next step, which is to confiscate without a criminal conviction, in any situation, whether it's a criminal trial or a civil trial. for those of you who have concerns, confiscation is done by a judge, by a court of law, obviously, on the basis of evidence. our priority has to be: follow the money! across the border, confiscating the profits of criminals! otherwise, everything we do is useless. i'd like to give you an example: just three weeks ago, in the uk, a network of money laundering through offshore banking and real estate investments was dismantled. the beneficiaries were criminals abroad involved in drug trafficking. during these operations, investigations were made in several states within the european union and abroad and about £500,000 and diamonds of very high value were seized. it's just one example of how organized crime networks operate globally. so, again, money is the weakness of these networks, and that's where we need to hit. we have to take their money.
this report is an excellent example of what is meant by a responsible, conscious and economically progressive policy. both the commission proposal and the report under debate are drafted in the same spirit. we need to recognize that the european union has an aging population, we have a shortage of skilled labour, we need skilled immigrants from third countries, we need to cut red tape and, above all, we need to combat scepticism about immigration. we have a duty to promote the same attitude, not only towards citizens of third countries, but especially towards european citizens. citizens from the new member states in particular often face unacceptable hostility as a result of populist and politically motivated campaigns. those who run such campaigns would have much to learn from this debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would also like to congratulate the author of the report, mrs striffler, and commissioner georgieva, on their continued involvement and support for the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which is, as has been said here, an important step in strengthening the international profile of the european union, thus enabling it to respond more effectively to humanitarian crises in third countries. the actions undertaken so far by the union are a testament to our efforts to extend solidarity to people in difficulty, and this mechanism is all the more important as it comes at a time when, although the number of such crises is increasing, the economic instability of recent years has led to a significantly reduced financial support for humanitarian interventions. with a budget of over €100 million, the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps will be able to train almost 5 000 volunteers who will not only respond to the problems generated by the crisis, but will often be able to anticipate them. it is therefore an important measure and i am convinced that it will prove effective.
i want to congratulate our colleague, michelle striffler, on her report. with its adoption, we are one step closer to achieving the objective set out in article 214 of the lisbon treaty, namely the creation of a legal framework for european young people to participate in humanitarian aid operations outside the union. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the actions of the members of the volunteer corps should be guided by the european consensus on humanitarian aid and also that the mobilisation of european volunteers should be done on the basis of needs that are identified at local level. i also support the explicit exclusion of situations of armed conflict and internal tensions. a balance is indeed needed between involving volunteers and ensuring their safety. i also welcome the inclusion of a strengthened review clause, in line with the wishes of our parliament - this will allow us to refine the system in the light of the experience of the coming years and i am convinced that this new instrument will also contribute to projecting a positive image of the union because, yes, the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps is the practical expression of our humanitarian values and it will give young people the opportunity to express their solidarity with people in difficulty in third countries. for the union's humanitarian action, the volunteer corps will obviously bring added visibility and effectiveness.
the humanitarian crises that have occurred in recent years worldwide require concerted action by eu actors to strengthen and optimise the response to such phenomena. the proposal to establish the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps is a concrete expression of european solidarity in action and social cohesion. the selection, training and mobilisation of volunteers for humanitarian missions will add value by complementing existing intervention systems. the establishment of a framework for joint contributions by european young people to union humanitarian aid actions will stimulate cross-border cooperation between volunteer organisations in different member states, thus facilitating the exchange of good practices. last but not least, i consider it particularly important to raise awareness of the importance of humanitarian aid and volunteering among union citizens in terms of civic spirit, social cohesion and the promotion of active citizenship at national, regional and local level. congratulations to the co-rapporteur!
i would like to draw the attention of the house to an absurd situation which is seriously damaging to romanian farmers and raises questions about the proper use of european agricultural funds. this is the harsh taxation imposed on farmers: they have to pay the state amounts that represent a third of the subsidy received from the european union. a romanian farmer owes the following taxes to the state: a tax of 16%, regardless of whether he obtains profit or loss, a health insurance contribution of 5,5%, a social insurance contribution and, last but not least, a fee to certify his status as a producer. a large part of the agricultural subsidy therefore actually goes to the romanian state budget, not to the farmers. this tax policy of the romanian government is far from being a policy in favour of farmers, a policy designed to support romanian agriculture.
i would like to inform you that the newly formed socialist majority in the romanian parliament continues the practices condemned by the european commission in the cvm reports. last week, the chamber of deputies blocked the lifting of the immunity of deputy vlad cosma, accused by dna of influence peddling. governments have basically substituted themselves for justice, trampling on the rule of law once again. the important thing is that this vote was done ostentatiously, on the orders of the socialist prime minister, victor ponta. he wanted to send a message to the corrupt mps that if they supported him, he would protect them in parliament from justice. despite repeated commitments made by prime minister ponta to the european union, he has once again sided with the thieves.
the pro-european alliance in the republic of moldova has made considerable efforts on the road to the european union. the result was the initialling of the association agreement in vilnius and the decision on visa liberalisation which we will soon be voting on in plenary. now more than ever, the european union must strongly support the republic of moldova in order to be able to resist the pressure from the russian federation. we do not want to see a repeat of the situation in ukraine, which, after initiating the association agreement with the european union, did not sign it on time, and over the past two months, more than 100 people have been killed in the euromaidan in kiev, in a shooting with live ammunition. the republic of moldova, like ukraine, must sign the association agreements with the european union as soon as possible.
i want to draw your attention to an unprecedented phenomenon in the european union, namely the discrimination and abuse against romanian students in the uk. in november 2013, the british authorities asked romanian students for additional records and blocked romanian and bulgarian students' loans, both for studies and for maintenance. and i ask you: how is it that after they went through a screening process a year or two ago and were accepted, they are now asked for additional records and, moreover, their applications are cancelled? moreover, i draw attention to the xenophobic and politically-minded aspect that has been born in britain, particularly through our disgraced colleague, mr nigel farage, who has aggressive public statements (the president interrupted the speaker).
in romania, women account for 83% of cases of physical abuse in the family, and every 30 seconds, in my country, a woman is a victim of domestic violence. violence against women is a grim reality, and estimates show that abuses are on the rise. out of negligence and disinterest, the socialist government of romania is unjustifiably delaying the approval of the signing and ratification of the istanbul convention. the commission and the member states must send a clear message: there is no tolerance or mitigating circumstances for violence against women. on another note, i think that in a lot of cases, behavioral deviance is about education. so i want us to keep in mind this important point: our children, the adults of tomorrow, will act on what they have seen and learned in the family.
the use of delegated or implementing acts is still unclear. the role of the committee on legal affairs will therefore be very important, especially in the next parliamentary term, and we as meps have a duty to protect european citizens and to oppose any european commission act that might be contrary to their interests. parliament must also be involved in the procedures just before the adoption of these acts. i therefore support the continued organisation of meetings between european commission experts and meps prior to the adoption of delegated acts. this is all the more important in areas such as agriculture, trade or economic and monetary affairs.
i would like to start by congratulating the european commission, commissioner olli rehn, on the way he has led this european semester process and on the way he has intervened and acted on the issue of member states in crisis. i would like to point out here that in some member states we still have a problem with the legitimacy of the european semester in that national parliaments are not yet involved from the first phase of the european semester when member states prepare their convergence or stability plans, as appropriate, and their national reform plans. these national parliaments normally take part in the latter part of the year, when draft budgets are presented for examination and adoption. however, i believe that national parliaments should intervene at the first stage, debating draft convergence or stability plans and national reform plans, because they are usually the ones who take the major decisions, which are then followed by the european commission's recommendations, which are taken over by the european council and then sent to each member state.
in writing. first, i would like to welcome president barroso's statement that the economic forecasts for 2015 are favourable to an economic recovery. however, we cannot forget the real challenges that we must face through concerted action at european level: unemployment and the negative social consequences of the crisis. the european executive has also acknowledged that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy will not be achieved, which would seriously damage the credibility of european policies. recently, the secretary general of the organisation for economic cooperation and development was drawing attention to the destabilising potential of a 'lost' young generation. a key shift in economic strategy must therefore be fiscal consolidation based on socially sustainable and balanced growth, to the detriment of austerity-based policies. last but not least, i believe that a 'convergence partnership' with the european institutions could stimulate member states to step up economic cooperation and reforms at national level, provided that a financial mechanism is set up to this end.
member of the commission. - madam president, the draft regulation for the fund for european aid to the most deprived does indeed provide that the food and goods shall be distributed free of charge to the most deprived. this choice was dictated by the financial regulation rules relating to the generation of revenue, which require that any amount gained when executing a project should be limited, or even deducted, from the eu contribution. this amount is subject to control. this does not mean that social groceries distributing food against a small fee cannot participate in the fund. what is required from social groceries is that those products that are co-financed by the fund are distributed free of charge. since i have the floor, let me take this opportunity to thank parliament, and in particular the committee on employment and social affairs, for their critical role in defending this fund. without parliament we would by no means be certain of having such a fund today to express eu solidarity with the most deprived citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the offence was not committed in the context of the performance of the duties of an mep. nor is it linked to membership of the ep. therefore, the waiver of immunity is a natural step to let the polish judiciary do its job.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of tadeusz cymański, which decides to waive the immunity of tadeusz cymański. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of prosecution, detention or legal proceedings for opinions or votes expressed in the performance of their duties. on 23 october 2013, the public prosecutor's office of the republic of poland submitted a request for waiver of the immunity of mr tadeusz cymański. the request follows a written statement by mr cymański refusing to comply with the obligation to disclose the identity of the person to whom he entrusted the vehicle indicated in his report by the general inspectorate of highway traffic police and agreeing to pay a fine of pln 500 in connection with the offence described in article 96 (3) of the polish code of criminal procedure. mr tadeusz cymański was heard by the panel of experts in accordance with article 7 (5) of the rules of procedure. the alleged offence has no direct or obvious connection with the performance by mr tadeusz cymański of his duties as a member of the european parliament and does not constitute opinions or votes expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the effects of the financial crisis persist, putting pressure on national budgets. in this context, the correct application of the european fisheries fund programmes is vital for investments in fisheries. countries subject to macroeconomic adjustment programmes are currently experiencing severe budgetary constraints and an implied liquidity problem. the commission proposal will therefore simplify and increase the pace of financing, giving a stronger boost to projects and investments in the fisheries sector.
in writing. - in the context of the financial crisis affecting particularly some member states of the european union, i welcome the report by mr neves on the member states which are, or are likely to be, in serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability. the urgency of making european funds available to certain states in particular and thus being able to use them for investments in the territory cannot be overlooked. however, as the report stresses, we cannot ignore the need to ensure that the member states make the best use of the funds they receive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 on the european fisheries fund to include provisions on member states in serious financial difficulties and in adjustment programmes. the previous amendments to the fisheries fund regulation provide for an increase of the co-financing rate by 10 percentage points for states in financial assistance programmes, this provision applying until 31 december 2013. given that some member states are still in adjustment programmes, still facing major budgetary constraints, and that payments are still being made on the 2007-2013 operational programmes, i welcome the european commission's proposal to extend this deadline beyond 31 december 2013. the measure will allow for better implementation of the fisheries operational programmes for the period 2007-2013 and a more effective use of european funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability. ensuring the sound implementation of the european fisheries fund programmes is of particular importance for investments in the fisheries sector. the implementation of programmes is often difficult because of the liquidity problems generated by budgetary consolidation. this is the case for member states that have received financial assistance under an adjustment programme. to date, seven countries have received financial assistance and agreed a macroeconomic adjustment programme with the commission - cyprus, hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland. to ensure that these member states (and any other member state that may benefit from such assistance programmes in the future) continue to implement fisheries policy programmes on the ground and continue to allocate funds to projects, this proposal contains provisions that will allow the commission to make higher payments to these countries during the period in which they benefit from the support mechanisms, without changing the total funds allocated to them under the fisheries policy for the period 2007-2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 to support member states currently receiving financial aid and those that could benefit from adjustment programmes so that they can continue to have financial resources to implement their sectoral fisheries policy projects. i welcome this aid, especially in the case of cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal, which are still subject to severe budgetary constraints that create liquidity problems due to the need for budgetary consolidation and complicate the implementation of operational programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the regulatory procedure with scrutiny needed to be adapted to article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to other relevant legislation. while not amending essential aspects of the legislation, delegated or implementing acts play a particularly important role in ensuring the effective application of legislative instruments by providing legal consistency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation adapting articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to a series of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the treaty of lisbon introduced a distinction between the powers delegated to the commission to adopt non-legislative acts of general application, supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of a legislative act (delegated acts), and the powers conferred on the commission to adopt uniform conditions for the implementation of legally binding union acts (implementing acts). where implementing powers are conferred on the commission, those powers should be exercised in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011. i support amendment 1 which confers the power to adopt delegated acts on the commission for a period of five years from the date of entry into force of this regulation. the commission shall submit a report on the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. the delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the european parliament or the council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the commission's proposal is designed to simplify the application of certain legislative acts by means of the delegated or implementing acts procedure. as a large part of the community acquis consists of legislative acts adopted before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the legal consistency of the regulatory procedures with scrutiny with the provisions of the treaty was absolutely necessary to ensure the consistent implementation of those acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation adapting to article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union a series of legal acts in the field of justice providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this proposal concerns aligning five legislative acts in the field of justice which still contain references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. those instruments need to be aligned by a separate proposal, as they were adopted on the basis of a legal basis falling within title v of part three of the tfeu and are therefore not binding on all member states and are thus incompatible with the legal bases of the other basic acts. the five legislative acts are: regulation no 1206/2001 on cooperation between the courts of the member states in the taking of evidence in civil or commercial matters; regulation no 805/2004 on the creation of a european enforcement order for uncontested claims; regulation 1896/2006 establishing a european order for payment procedure; regulation no 861/2007 establishing a european procedure with regard to small claims; regulation no 1393/2007 on the service in the member states of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters (service of documents) and repealing regulation no 1348/2000.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i support greater transparency with regard to delegated or implementing acts adopted by the commission. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. last but not least, in order to ensure democratic control of the way the commission exercises its powers, i have argued that the period during which it has the power to adopt delegated acts should be limited and renewed on the basis of a report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation adapting to article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union a series of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, significantly modifies the framework of the powers conferred on the commission by the legislator. the treaty makes a clear distinction between, on the one hand, the powers delegated to the commission to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope which supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of a legislative act (delegated acts) and, on the other hand, the powers conferred on the commission to adopt implementing acts. i support amendment 1 which empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts for a period of five years from the date of entry into force of this regulation. the commission shall submit a report on the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. the delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the european parliament or the council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the nomination of mr oskar herics as a member of the court of auditors because his professional experience to date recommends him as an excellent candidate for this post. legal studies, followed by extensive practice in public finance and audit, are evidence of high professional qualifications in the field. in addition, the candidate shall demonstrate a guarantee of independence - a fundamental requirement in the exercise of his future duties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the proposal to appoint oskar herics as a member of the court of auditors, which gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint oskar herics as a member of the court of auditors. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, taking into account in particular the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the candidate nominated by the council to be a member of the court of auditors was also heard by the committee on budgetary control at its meeting on 17 february 2014. following these hearings, the committee on budgetary control delivered a favourable opinion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that this procedural change to the parliament's rules of procedure is likely to increase the transparency of our work. there are certain perfectly justified situations which do not allow a member to be present in plenary sessions. in this context, it seemed to me normal that if a member was on maternity or paternity leave, his absence from plenary sessions would be 'motivated'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision amending rule 136 of the rules of procedure on participation in meetings. i voted for amendment no 1 which amends rule 136 (2) of the rules of procedure. the names of members whose attendance is attested by the attendance sheet are entered in the minutes of each sitting, together with the mention present. the names of members whose absence is approved by the president shall be entered in the minutes of each sitting, together with the words 'absence with reasons'. at present, the concept of maternity or paternity leave does not exist in the legal provisions governing parliamentary mandate. but this is a valid reason for absence from official meetings. article 136 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament governs the list of attendance. in its current version, the distinction is made only between members present at a meeting. the article does not provide for justified absences. the amendment suggests that the minutes of each sitting should include the names of members whose absence has been approved by the president. the sole purpose of this amendment is to reduce the negative impact on the attendance list of members and on the 'parliamentary activity indicators'. this measure has no financial implications.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new regulations which aim to reduce co2 emissions from new cars to 95g/km. i welcome the gradual introduction of the mandatory 95g/km target to 95% of new cars and to a single year: 2020. i believe that these new provisions will encourage the certification and introduction of technologies or technology packages (green innovations) that further reduce the associated co2 emissions, the 95g target representing a saving of 15 million tonnes of co2 emissions per year, and that also contribute to reducing fuel consumption, for the benefit of the consumer. i am convinced that improving the efficiency of cars means a more efficient use of resources in europe, and therefore a step towards sustainable growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because road transport is a sector in which greenhouse gas emissions are increasing rapidly. therefore, coordinated, long-term action is needed to achieve the 2050 targets. the union has a duty to strengthen and maintain its international leadership in the fight against climate change. however, too frequent changes in the targets create uncertainty for the automotive industry and affect global competitiveness. i believe that long-term strategies are needed to stimulate investment in this area and that this regulation should also set targets for 2025 as the industry can benefit from this political signal. only through legal certainty can we promote green growth and jobs, improving the competitiveness of the union's automotive industry.
in writing. - improving the efficiency of cars is part of the europe 2020 resource efficiency agenda, which will ensure the shift to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy for sustainable growth. in addition, by improving the efficiency and sustainability of new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, the union's dependence on oil will be reduced. the production of more fuel-efficient vehicles in the eu will create new jobs, particularly in the chemical and electronics industries, as well as in high-technology in europe. i believe that member states, the commission and regional and local authorities should make efforts to identify and disseminate best practices for stimulating demand for ultra-low emission vehicles, so that the strong sales growth in some european countries is taken up in all member states.
in writing. - i voted for the proposal for a regulation on the reduction of co2 emissions from new cars. the further development of the global market for advanced technologies aimed at improving the efficiency of passenger cars is in line with the commission communication of 21 january 2011 entitled 'a resource efficient europe - the flagship initiative of the europe 2020 strategy'. it supports the shift towards a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy with a view to achieving sustainable growth. from 2020, this regulation sets a target of 95g co2/km as the average of the emissions for the new passenger car fleet registered in the union. it is important that this regulation is as neutral as possible from a competitive point of view, socially fair and sustainable. by 31 december 2015, the commission shall review the specific emissions targets and modalities set, as well as other aspects of this regulation, including whether the utility parameter is still necessary and whether the most reliable utility parameter is mass or footprint, with a view to setting the co2 emissions targets for new passenger cars for the period after 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i too support amending the current regulation to give greater coherence to the concept of the european trade mark. the enhanced role of the office for harmonisation in the internal market will provide greater legal certainty for holders of intellectual property rights. the existence of the european trade mark guarantees the protection of inventions throughout the union, which is why it is important that ohim has enhanced powers of verification and authorisation. this can encourage innovation and research, which are essential conditions for economic recovery in europe. i emphasise the importance of innovation and research because in recent years the union has lost ground compared to, for example, the united states. if we do not invest massively in these areas and ensure that inventions are properly protected, the exodus of researchers to other regions will continue.
in writing. - in the european union, a trademark can be registered either at national level, at the industrial property office of a member state, or at eu level, as a community trademark. the regulation also created the office for harmonisation in the internal market (ohim) to ensure the registration and administration of community trade marks. this acquis on trade marks has not been substantially amended, while the business environment has evolved significantly. the main objective of the proposal is to harmonise the trademark registration systems in all eu member states and to ensure consistency and complementarity between the european trademark system and national systems, to make them more efficient for businesses by reducing costs and complexity. i believe that this could result in a substantial increase in innovation and economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark. the purpose of the mark is to distinguish the goods and services of an undertaking. all signs, in particular words, including names of persons, designs, letters, figures, colours as such, the shape of the product or its packaging or sounds, may constitute european union trade marks provided that such signs use generally available technology and are capable of: distinguishing the goods or services of one undertaking from those of others; and are represented in the register of european union trade marks in a manner which enables the competent authorities and the public to determine with clarity and precision the subject-matter of the protection conferred on the proprietor. the proposal for a revision of the community trade mark regulation has the following main objectives: to adapt the terminology to the treaty of lisbon and the provisions to the common approach on agencies; to simplify the procedures for applying for and registering a european trade mark; to increase legal certainty by clarifying the provisions and removing ambiguities; to establish an appropriate framework for cooperation between the office for harmonisation in the internal market (ohim) and the national offices, with a view to promoting convergence of practices and developing common instruments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because we have too often been confronted, both in romania and in other states, with situations where a person was definitively convicted, but remained with the goods or money obtained illegally. this not only encouraged potential offenders but also diminished citizens' trust in the judiciary. romania already has an extensive asset forfeiture law, as early as 2012, as a result of the efforts of former right-wing governments to fight corruption more effectively. however, the legislation is not properly implemented and confiscation cases are too few. i therefore hope that the current government will transpose the directive in time and promote the strictest possible rules in this area; this, although the last two years of left-wing government do not give me cause to be optimistic in this respect.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime in the eu was adopted by the european commission on 12 march 2012. the draft directive lays down minimum rules for member states on the freezing and confiscation of criminal assets by means of direct seizure, equivalent value seizure, extended seizure, seizure not based on a conviction and confiscation from third parties. the adoption of those minimum rules will strengthen the harmonisation of freezing and confiscation regimes in the member states and thus facilitate mutual trust and effective cross-border cooperation. it will also be a step forward towards strengthening the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, an important aspect of the fight against serious and organised cross-border crime in the eu. the report envisages strengthening the provisions on confiscation not based on a conviction and extended confiscation to make them more effective, thus helping to prevent the proceeds of crime from being used to commit other crimes or reinvested in lawful activities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which aims to implement rules on the confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union. this directive lays down minimum rules for member states concerning the freezing and confiscation of assets of criminal origin by means of direct confiscation, confiscation in value, extended confiscation, confiscation in the absence of a conviction and confiscation of assets of third parties. i supported this text in the plenary vote because the adoption of these minimum rules will make it possible to harmonise the freezing and confiscation regimes in force in the member states, which will strengthen mutual trust and the effectiveness of crossborder cooperation. it is a step towards strengthening the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, an important aspect of the fight against large scale cross-border organised crime within the union. the provisions on confiscation without conviction and extended confiscation need to be further strengthened to make them more effective and genuinely capable of preventing the proceeds of crime from being used to commit other crimes or reinvested in lawful activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds from crime in the european union. since financial gain is the main motive behind cross-border organised crime, it is necessary that competent authorities have the means to detect, freeze, manage and confiscate the proceeds of crime. the activity of organised criminal groups is not limited by borders, with these groups increasingly acquiring assets in member states other than those in which they are established, as well as in third countries. the adoption of minimum rules will harmonise the freezing and confiscation regimes in the member states and thus facilitate mutual trust and effective cross-border cooperation. in accordance with the position adopted, member states shall take the necessary measures to allow for the confiscation, in whole or in part, of instruments and products or of property the value of which corresponds to such instruments or products, provided that there is a final conviction for an offence, which may also result from proceedings in absentia. member states shall also take the necessary measures to allow for the confiscation of products or other property the value of which corresponds to products which have been transferred, directly or indirectly, by a suspect or accused person to third parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that we must have a uniform application at european level of the system of intellectual property protection. unfortunately, most studies show that in my country, trademark registration is seen as an optional element. moreover, by doing so, entrepreneurs in romania are exposing themselves to risks. among them are counterfeiting and fraud, which lead to financial losses. of course, the authorities are partly to blame. whether it is because they do not explain clearly enough how important it is to register a trademark, or because the costs are simply too high and the procedures too complicated, the result is the same: legal uncertainty and financial loss.
in writing. - this revision of the directive, which harmonises certain aspects of the trade mark legislation of the eu member states, provides an opportunity to learn from the good practices identified and to further strengthen the harmonisation measures adopted by national trade mark offices in respect of substantive law and procedural aspects of trade mark legislation. the eu business community comprises over 20 million businesses with very different needs. the trade mark system should be sufficiently simple and flexible to provide its users with access to protection that meets their needs. some users want to obtain protection in only one member state, while others want to obtain uniform protection in all 28 member states of the union. there are many users who rely on the national system to ensure their protection in different member states. in order to assist those users who rely on the services of several national offices to obtain protection, it is appropriate to harmonise the procedures so that users do not have to use completely different procedural approaches in the different member states where they seek to obtain protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks (reform) adopting the position of the european parliament at first reading. it is essential to ensure that registered trade marks enjoy the same protection in the legal systems of all member states and that trade marks at national level enjoy the same protection as european union trade marks. in line with the extended protection granted to european union trade marks which enjoy a reputation in the union, extended protection at national level should also be granted to all registered trade marks which enjoy a reputation in a given member state. this directive and the parallel proposal to amend the community trade mark regulation are to be considered as one package. they have as their main common objective to stimulate innovation and economic growth by making trade mark registration systems throughout the eu more accessible and efficient for businesses, by reducing costs and complexity and increasing speed, predictability and legal certainty. those adjustments shall be complemented by efforts to ensure the coexistence and complementarity between the union trade mark system and national trade mark systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because europol could play a very important role in coordinating the fight against cross-border crime. i therefore believe that the institution could be strengthened and its powers extended. i welcome the introduction of the possibility for europol to open ex officio investigations when cyberattacks from a third country take place against several countries in the union. coordination in such situations is essential, especially after more and more institutions in some member states, including romania, have been the target of cyber-attacks in recent years. even if these attacks were largely repelled, identifying the perpetrators could be done more quickly and efficiently with the participation of europol.
in writing. - the eu has faced an increase in serious and organised crime and a diversification of its forms. the 2013 europol assessment of the threat posed by serious and organised crime in the eu concludes that 'serious and organised crime is an increasingly dynamic and complex phenomenon and remains a significant threat to the security and prosperity of the eu'. the proposal clearly defines europol's field of action, its functions and how cooperation with the member states should be carried out. the proposal also sets the following objectives: to align europol with the requirements of the lisbon treaty by laying down the legal framework for europol in the regulation and by introducing a mechanism for scrutiny of europol's activities by the european parliament together with national parliaments; to improve europol's governance by increasing its efficiency; to provide europol with a stronger personal data protection architecture by empowering the european data protection supervisor to supervise, in a fully independent manner, europol's processing of personal data and by stepping up the exchange of information.
in writing. - as the eu is facing an increase in organised crime, with a diversification of the forms in which it manifests itself, especially at cross-border level, this requires much closer cooperation between member states in preventing and combating crime. in these circumstances, i support the proposal to redefine the legal framework for the work of the european police office (europol) through a more effective legal instrument, enabling it to have a better capacity to react to crime, which is increasingly globalised and with an increasingly diversified and sophisticated mode of operation, as shown by the increasing share of cybercrime, for example. it is already causing significant damage to the eu economy. i voted in favour of aligning europol with the requirements of the lisbon treaty by laying down europol's legislative framework in the regulation and by introducing a mechanism for monitoring europol's activities by the european parliament together with national parliaments.
in writing. - the increase and diversification of crime at different levels represents a significant threat to the security and prosperity of the union. it is therefore necessary to intensify cooperation between the european police office and the member states, by means of increased information exchange and by using the national units as a contact point for europol. citizens' safety is one of our priorities and the system of information exchange established by the regulation will finally allow us to achieve high levels of data security and protection.
in writing. - it is important that the union has an agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) with a clear scope, well-defined competences and ensuring effective cooperation with the member states. according to a study carried out in 2012 for europol's management board, the number of articles in the international press mentioning europol's work increased from 8 653 in 2008 to 25 854 in 2011. this significant increase demonstrates the importance and growing involvement of this agency in preventing and combating serious crime and terrorism. i support the european commission's proposal to adopt a regulation through the ordinary legislative procedure establishing an effective european police office with its own organisational structure. the fight against crime within the union is a priority and we need to ensure that europol has the funding and tools to fulfil its mission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol) and repealing decisions 2009/371/jha and 2005/681/jha. europol shall support and strengthen the work of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime. the list of offences is specified in annex 1 and affects two or more member states, implying a common approach by the member states given the scale, importance and consequences of the offences. article 88 of the treaty provides that europol is to be the subject of a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. it also provides for the establishment of the procedure for scrutiny of europol's activities by the european parliament, to which national parliaments are associated, in accordance with article 12 (c) of the treaty on european union and article 9 of protocol no 1 on the role of national parliaments in the european union. it is therefore necessary to replace decision 2009/371/jha by a regulation laying down rules on parliamentary scrutiny. europol is established to improve mutual cooperation between law enforcement authorities in the european union and to strengthen and support their action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because access to the union for students and researchers from third countries must be facilitated, especially when it comes to the countries of the eastern neighbourhood. there are many reasons. firstly, we offer a chance for young people outside the union to develop academically. secondly, we can take advantage of the best foreign students and place them on the european labour market, and our economies can benefit. in parallel with these measures, we must provide facilities for third-country nationals who wish to study in the union. i give you the example of romania, which awards a number of 5[nbsp ]500 scholarships to students from the republic of moldova, and many of them, generally very well prepared, later decide to stay in my country and thus contribute to the development of the economy.
in writing. - given the current labour market conditions in many member states and the problems of social dumping in the internal market, the objective is twofold: to strengthen labour markets to better match skills and labour market shortages and, respectively, to guarantee equal treatment and non-discrimination for all categories of workers within the eu and in third countries. to ensure this, a minimum level of protection must be guaranteed and, at the same time, the conditions for the entry of skilled labour must be ensured. efforts towards a well-managed and proactive migration policy to attract highly qualified third-country nationals to the eu are fully supported. proposals to make the provisions for paid trainees and au pairs mandatory should be based on a broader regulatory framework, guaranteeing social protection and equal treatment. additional provisions on access to the labour market for family members of eligible persons or other provisions for extending the residence status of researchers after the completion of their activities should take into account the principle of subsidiarity and should be respected, without prejudice to the competence of member states to regulate these matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to establish common conditions of entry and residence for third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary work and au pairs. the aim of this text is to improve the provisions applicable to these groups of third-country nationals and to make the european union more attractive. the union needs to be competitive on the world market and at the same time provide guarantees and ensure equal treatment. the inclusion of new categories of trainees and paid trainees and au pairs is a positive development, such as enhanced access to the labour market for students, the time limits for the authorisation procedure and the possibility to stay and look for a job or to set up a business after finishing research or studies. many studies show that the eu as a whole will need more than 11 million additional immigrants over the period 2010-2020 to cope with its ageing population. this directive should help to combat this worrying phenomenon and improve the eu's dynamism.
in writing. - it is important to promote the union's values and culture among foreign students and intellectuals. according to a european commission press release of march 2013, in 2011, the number of third-country nationals coming to the union to study was: 64 794 in france, 35 037 in spain, 30 260 in italy or 27 568 in germany. these figures demonstrate the attractiveness of obtaining a degree in a member state, but also the need for a rigorous and clear legal framework to regulate the status of this category of students. i support the commission's proposal to allow third-country nationals to remain in the union for a sufficient period after completion of research or studies, to look for a job or to start a business. we need qualified graduates and investment to increase our competitiveness on the world market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid vocational training, voluntary service and au pair work. i voted for amendment no 46, which states that, outside of their study time and subject to compliance with the rules and conditions applicable to the relevant activity in the host member state, students have the right to be employed and may have the right to engage in an independent economic activity. the host member state may take into account the labour market situation, but not in a systematic way that could lead to the exclusion of students from the labour market. i voted for amendment no 47, which states that, after completion of the research project or studies in the member state, third-country nationals are entitled to stay in the territory of the member state for a period of 18 months to seek employment or to open a business, if the conditions laid down in article 6 (a) and (c) (f) are still met.
in writing. - the european union's continued position as a major player in international relations cannot be achieved without promoting the values and principles on which the union is built. as the european union remains the main provider of humanitarian aid globally, it is appropriate that this dimension of the european union's external policy be doubled by an increase in the importance of volunteering-related activities. i therefore support the report's proposals. the institutional conditions allow for the creation of a european voluntary corps, capable of dealing with both the rigours of humanitarian situations that require the attention of the european union and the need to promote, by example, the principles and values of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because this proposal is one of the missing links in the union's development aid policy. it is known that the union is by far the largest donor of assistance globally. the emergence of a european volunteer corps can increase the effectiveness of the union's humanitarian aid. in addition, we will have the guarantee that our support actually reaches those who need it most. it will also be a win for the union's image, as we will no longer be seen as a distant entity that just sends aid to disadvantaged areas. of course, all these objectives will be achieved if this volunteer corps is well trained and adequately funded.
in writing. - the number of humanitarian crises, both natural and man-made, and their scale and complexity worldwide have increased significantly. therefore, humanitarian actors are increasingly called upon to come up with an effective response. thousands of europeans volunteer abroad to help victims of disasters and crises. there are others who, if they could, would like to get involved. the emergence of this body would fill the gaps in current humanitarian volunteering and would also contribute to raising public awareness and spreading the idea of european citizenship. solidarity is a fundamental value of the union, and volunteering is a concrete and visible expression of that solidarity. the union must ensure adequate humanitarian aid to respond to the increased number and scale of humanitarian crises.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps eu aid volunteers. the adopted regulation establishes a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps as a framework for the joint contributions of european volunteers to support and complement humanitarian aid operations in third countries. it lays down the rules and procedures for the operation of the 'eu aid volunteers' initiative and the rules for the granting of financial assistance. the regulation establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps shall apply to: 1. the selection, training and mobilisation of eu humanitarian volunteers to support and complement humanitarian aid in third countries; 2. actions supporting, promoting and training the mobilisation of eu aid volunteers to support and complement humanitarian aid in third countries; 3. actions inside and outside the union aimed at strengthening the capacity of third country hosting organisations in humanitarian aid. the financial envelope for the implementation of this regulation for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020 shall be eur 147[nbsp ] 936 000 in current prices.
i would like to thank all the colleagues who voted in favour of this report on behalf of the 60 000 beneficiaries of the food aid programme in cluj county, romania, the county i represent in this parliament. this support is essential for millions of families across the european union, to whom we owe protection and solidarity. i would also like to make an appeal to the member states to simplify the granting of such aid so that beneficiaries are not humiliated by complicated procedures and long queues. i also call for accountability in public procurement related to the implementation of the programme. for example, in romania last year, the food aid program was a failure because some auctions were poorly organized, resulting in many families not receiving the food they needed. once again on behalf of those less fortunate than us, thank you!
in writing. - the european union takes responsibility for those who are currently suffering from food and material deprivation, whose numbers have steadily and alarmingly increased amid the worsening effects of the economic crisis. unfortunately, millions of people live in extreme material poverty and are unable to meet their most basic subsistence needs, lacking access to sufficient and quality food. in these circumstances, the ultimate aim of poverty policies and the new fund for european aid to the most deprived is to enable the european union to continue to help and contribute to alleviating the worst forms of poverty and social exclusion. meeting the europe 2020 target of reducing by 2020 by at least 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by these problems is an imperative for the european union and for the member states alike.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and welcome the fact that the fund for european aid to the most deprived will be implemented in 2014-2020. it was clear that this fund was absolutely necessary to achieve the europe 2020 targets, in particular the reduction of the number of people living in poverty. the crisis has affected living standards in the european union, increasing the number of people at risk of poverty. the actions to be supported by the fund should give priority to the provision of food and basic material assistance.
in writing. - a particularly serious form of material deprivation is homelessness. in 2009-2010, there were 4,1 million homeless people in the union. the crisis is leading to an increase in the number of homeless people, and families with children, young people (up to 20% in denmark and 15% in the netherlands) and people from migrant families are increasingly affected. the proposed fund for the period 2014-2020, worth eur 2,5 billion, would establish a new instrument, supporting national food poverty response mechanisms and devoting part of its resources to the provision of material assistance in the form of non-food items to homeless people and/or children, as well as to ancillary measures aimed at the social reintegration of assisted persons. the fund shall target directly the most deprived persons or households in the member states whose assistance needs are identified by the national authorities or partner organisations, or indirectly by providing food and goods to the homeless or children. member states are required to plan and provide assistance in accordance with national systems, and the criteria for allocating assistance will fall under the responsibility of member states or partner organisations.
in writing. - voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the fund for european aid to the most deprived. even if the measures and the budget provided for have a low impact compared to other instruments for combating poverty at european level, in particular the structural and investment funds, i believe that it is useful to continue funding a european fund for the most deprived. all the more so as lifting at least 20 million european citizens out of poverty is one of the clear objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. as regards the extension of the scope and objectives of the fund for european aid to the most deprived, they consider that synergies with the european social fund should also be explored, in particular in terms of combating social exclusion and poverty. in addition, the inclusion of provisions on combating food waste, by implication by encouraging donations, is more than welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creation, within the european area, of a new aid fund for 2014-2020, worth €2.5 billion, for the most disadvantaged people. the last and only programme providing food aid to the most deprived persons was discontinued at the end of 2013. in 2011 and 2012, the number of people who are disadvantaged and unable to work amounts to 24% of the total population of the union. in 7 of the 28 member states, more than 30% of the total population is classified as very poor. these countries included bulgaria, romania, latvia, greece, lithuania, hungary and croatia. in view of these data, i support the urgent implementation of the continuation of the aid programme that was interrupted in 2013 in order to be able to significantly reduce the number of disadvantaged people by 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the fund for european aid to the most deprived (the 'fund'). in 2011, almost one quarter of the union's population (119,82 million) was at risk of poverty or social exclusion, almost four million more than in the previous year. the regulation lays down the objectives of the fund, the scope of support, the financial resources available and their allocation to each member state, and the rules necessary to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the fund. the fund shall support national programmes through which food and/or basic material assistance is distributed to the most deprived persons, through partner organisations selected by the member states. in order to increase and diversify the supply of food to the most deprived persons and to reduce and prevent food waste, the fund may support activities related to the collection, transport, storage and distribution of food donations. the fund shall support activities contributing to the social inclusion of the most deprived persons. the resources available for the budgetary commitment fund for the period 2014 to 2020 shall be eur 3 395 684 880 in 2011 prices. the allocation from the fund for the period 2014-2020 for each member state is set out in annex iii. eur 391 300 000 shall be allocated to romania.
in writing. - the european commission's proposal for the european fund for the most deprived is welcome, although the €2.5 billion budget for 2014-2020 is not satisfactory, given the poverty situation of millions of people in the eu today. i voted for the regulation on the proposal to establish, for the period 2014 to 2020, a new instrument which will complement the existing cohesion instruments, in particular the european social fund. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings, including the purchase, hire and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances for the construction, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings, and the purchase of furniture, equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings. i hope that the eu will be able to mobilise itself better than it has done so far and have the capacity to stimulate economic growth so that the prosperity generated will have a positive impact on the lives of as many of the millions of people targeted by the new fund created by the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the new rules on biocidal products will have a significant impact in terms of enhancing the protection of human health and the environment. these products are necessary for the control of organisms harmful to human or animal health or causing material damage, but their properties may present risk factors for humans, animals or the environment. it is important to provide clarity and legal certainty for member states with regard to biocidal products, and i therefore welcome the technical clarifications in the text of the regulation. in addition, simplifying the process of authorising such products on the eu market will bring important economic benefits to european traders.
in writing. - in order to provide the necessary clarity and legal certainty to member states, industry and the general public, i voted today to revise regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the placing on the market and use of biocidal products. regulation (eu) no 528/2012, adopted by the parliament and the council on 22 may 2012, represented a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation regulating biocidal products by harmonising the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. however, since its adoption, the commission has identified a number of technical errors and undesirable consequences of the regulation and, therefore, regulation (eu) no 528/2012 needs to be amended to introduce the necessary corrections and clarifications as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted to amend regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, as regards certain conditions for market access. the biocidal products regulation has represented a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation regulating biocidal products by harmonising the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. since its adoption, the commission has identified a number of technical errors and undesirable consequences of the regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this proposed amendment, with the aim of introducing the necessary corrections and clarifications as soon as possible, given that the regulation applies from 1 september 2013. i voted in favour of the amendments to this regulation in order to provide the necessary clarity and legal certainty for member states, industry and the general public.
in writing. - violence against women is a current and extremely serious phenomenon to which the european union must respond concretely, effectively and swiftly. even though the eu's member states have policies in place to combat this phenomenon, the results are still lagging behind. it is therefore urgently necessary to have a common legislative act at european union level setting out measures to promote and support member states' action in the field of preventing violence against women, as well as a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. furthermore, i believe that victims of this phenomenon should be protected wherever they are in the european union, and this can only be done if there is a common legislative act at union level. it should also be borne in mind that a criminal legislative instrument to combat gender-based violence would go a long way towards protecting victims. for these reasons, i support the report with recommendations to the commission on combating violence against women and i believe that the european union must become a leading actor and an example in the world in combating this harmful phenomenon. finally, i would like to point out that until common legislation is achieved in the european union, it is absolutely necessary for all member states to ratify the istanbul convention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because violence against women and girls is one of the most widespread human rights violations in the world. and the statistics are alarming: according to a study by the world health organization, in 2013, 35% of women worldwide experienced physical and/or sexual violence. globally, more women are killed in the domestic setting than in all areas of conflict, including war. we cannot remain indifferent to this phenomenon, and we all owe it to ourselves to fight against this scourge. in this regard, the commission should promote cooperation between member states, ngos and women's organisations to prepare and implement effective strategies to eliminate all forms of violence against women.
in writing. - i voted for this report because violence against women is a major violation of human rights and a form of gender discrimination. it is the main cause of gender inequality, as it is an obstacle to women's full participation in economic, social, political and cultural life. women who suffer violence remain with severe psychological and physical trauma in the long term, in addition to the significant economic burden this causes in terms of health, police and legal costs, as well as reduced productivity and income. violence against women has a cross-border dimension and must be tackled at eu level. the own-initiative report sets out a series of measures that should be taken in the future in the member states to combat this scourge of violence against women.
in writing. - violence against women is first and foremost a violation of human rights, but it is also a form of gender discrimination which is unacceptable as such. the eu is at the forefront of the international effort to prevent violence against women and is a positive example for all those fighting this scourge, from a legislative, cultural and political point of view. however, legislation is needed to establish measures to promote and support action by member states in the field of prevention of violence against women and a comprehensive strategy to combat this type of violence is also needed.
in writing. - welcomes the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on combating violence against women, which is a serious violation of human rights and a form of gender discrimination; it is worrying that around 20%-25% of adult women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once and that over 10% of women in the european union have been victims of sexual violence involving the use of force. in order to have as clear a picture as possible at european level, it is incumbent on the european commission to present a revised proposal for a regulation on statistics on all types of violence against women. a common strategy and action plan to combat violence against women at european level would also be welcome. in this regard, cooperation between member states and ngos active in this field may also be useful.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution containing recommendations to the commission on combating violence against women. studies on violence against women estimate that one fifth to one quarter of all women in europe have suffered physical violence at least once in their adult lives, and over one tenth have suffered sexual violence. violence against women can leave deep physical and psychological scars, and can damage the overall health of women and girls. according to the european added value assessment, the annual cost to the eu of gender-based violence against women is estimated at eur 228 billion in 2011 (equivalent to 1.8% of eu gdp), of which eur 45 billion annually for public and state services and eur 24 billion for decreased economic output. we call on the commission to present, by the end of 2014, a proposal for an act under article 84 tfeu setting out measures to encourage and support member states' actions in the field of preventing violence against women and girls, following the detailed recommendations set out in the annex. we also call on the commission to present a revised proposal for a regulation on european statistics on violent crime, including a coherent system for collecting statistical data on gender-based violence in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the way the commission exercises its powers in adopting delegated or implementing acts is very important for the effectiveness of european legislation. transparency must therefore be a priority and the adoption of such acts must be done with prior consultation of all those involved, including the european parliament. there are some areas where delegated acts are very present and thus have a greater impact on citizens. control of how they are adopted is therefore of particular importance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the monitoring of the delegation of legislative powers and the control by the member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the treaty of lisbon introduced the possibility for parliament and the council to delegate some of their powers to the commission in a legislative act. according to the historical case law, the adoption of essential rules in the field in question is reserved to the legislative body, which means that the adoption of rules whose adoption requires political decisions falling within the responsibility of the legislative body cannot be delegated. the power to supplement and amend non-essential elements of a legislative act may be delegated only. we call for the allocation of sufficient staff and technical resources for delegated and implementing acts, inter alia, to ensure an efficient internal flow of information. we recommend that permanent rapporteurs for delegated and implementing acts be appointed in each committee, thus ensuring coherence within the committee concerned and with other committees. we further ask in particular the members of the negotiating teams to pay particular attention to delegated and implementing acts when reporting to the committee responsible after each trilogue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the european semester has proved to be a strong system of economic and fiscal coordination. and the member states, as well as the union, need effective guidance on financial recovery and sustainable growth. from the outside, my country's 3.5% growth rate may seem like a model of success at the european level. but the economic reality in romania is not as rosy as the socialist government presents it. the much-vaunted increase is directly proportional to the increase in taxes and taxation. moreover, investment spending in my country has fallen dramatically, and tax evasion and corruption are increasing by the day. so the economic boom invoked by the ponta government is not reflected in the budget revenues, and unfortunately, not in the pockets of the romanians.
in writing. - the signs we get from official statistics on the economic situation of the eu and of the individual member states are sufficient to give rise to cautious enthusiasm. there is no doubt that the economic crisis is still having its effects on european economies, but at the same time it is worth noting that ireland has exited the bailout programme and portugal is preparing to do so next may. these first steps towards growth should spur the council and the commission on to future choices, acting on an economic plan which can focus increasingly on growth and development and abandon the blind alley of austerity and rigor.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social issues in the annual growth review for 2014. as for the report's reference to european funds, i personally believe that they represent the only chance for development for some member states, especially for the new members of the european union, including romania. i share the conviction that cohesion policy is essential to help reduce competitiveness disparities and to reduce structural imbalances between the west and east of the union. i agree that the european commission must come up with quick and specific solutions for member states facing high unemployment rates but also major co-financing problems. as regards high youth unemployment, a problem faced by many eu countries, and mentioned as such in the report, i believe that european funds can be a solution. the youth guarantee, as well as other measures funded by the european social fund, and other youth programmes such as erasmus+ or even horizon 2020, are concrete tools for creating opportunities for young people and reducing unemployment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth analysis for 2014. we welcome the recognition of the need for growth-friendly fiscal consolidation and urge the commission to translate this priority into concrete recommendations for member states and the eu as a whole. we believe that the eu economy as a whole needs to boost its cost competitiveness more. we stress that structural reforms must be complemented by longer-term investments in education, research, innovation and sustainable energy. we also believe that public-private partnerships can also be considered as instruments to promote investment and create smart and sustainable growth to complement public investment programmes. we argue that difficult access to finance, especially for smes, is one of the biggest obstacles to growth in the eu. we believe that more alternatives to bank credit are needed by improving the efficient allocation of capital in capital markets, stimulating long-term investment and making full use of the eu's new innovative financial instruments designed to support sme access to capital markets. we argue that the european investment bank can play a more active role in access to finance for the real economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report despite its overall populist tone. but any debate or initiative on how to solve labour market problems at union level is welcome. the ongoing economic recovery is still fragile, raising a number of challenges that need to be addressed urgently and as a matter of priority. the short and mediumterm problems remain unemployment, especially among young people, and employment. despite the fact that romania has a socialist government in power, the number of people with a job has not increased. at the beginning of last year there were 4.3 million employees, and at the end of 2013 the same number, in a total population of over 20 million.
in writing. - unemployment in the eu reached an alarming 26.6 million people, and youth unemployment rates reached unprecedented levels, averaging 23% for the eu as a whole. the commission should propose measures to tackle inequalities and guarantee decent wages, and member states should combat poverty among the working population through labour market policies aimed at ensuring wages that ensure a decent living for workers. a strong focus on quality jobs is needed to promote high labour productivity and rapid innovation through a skilled, adaptable and responsible workforce with decent safety and health standards and a sense of security and reasonable working hours. it is essential to develop a european pact for youth employment, implementing long-agreed measures and providing for new resources and measures to tackle youth unemployment, reduce the number of young people who are not in employment and do not follow any education or training programme, taking into account the qualitative aspect of decent jobs that fully respect the core labour standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european funds are an essential tool for member states to use to stimulate the economy and to achieve the europe 2020 targets for growth and employment. there is a need to re-stimulate domestic demand and create quality jobs through productive investment and increased productivity in more adapted and dynamic labour markets, able to adapt accordingly to the disruptions affecting the economic situation. welcomes the call on the member states to draw up and submit, in collaboration with the private sector, social partners and in accordance with national practices, plans containing specific measures for job creation, in particular for sectors identified by the commission as having high potential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social issues in the annual growth review for 2014. unemployment in the eu has reached 26.6 million people, with the average youth unemployment rate at 23% for the eu as a whole and in some member states the youth unemployment rate is above 50%. we welcome the adoption by the council of the youth guarantee and the allocation of eur 6 billion for the youth employment initiative. we stress that the amount allocated is not sufficient and ask the commission to extend the budget of the 'youth guarantee' to the middle of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework period. we consider that the employment and social indicators proposed by the commission are insufficient to reflect comprehensively the employment and social situation of the member states. we call for the inclusion of additional indicators in the scoreboard, in particular an index on the level of child poverty, an index on access to health care, an index on homelessness and an index on decent work, to allow an adequate assessment of the social situation in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on my own initiative because it opens the way to a thorough analysis of the improvement of plant quality and productivity. moreover, this discussion is also useful from a demographic point of view, in the context of the increase in the number of inhabitants in europe, but also worldwide. therefore, the pressures that will be placed on agriculture and its productivity require a proactive approach in the field. in this regard, horizon 2020 may provide funding for research to develop plant breeding techniques and the commission should have recourse to a common strategic framework to facilitate research, innovation and technological development in this field.
in writing. - i voted for the paulsen report. i recognise the need for plants to adapt to the new natural conditions brought about by climate change, and therefore the european union must allocate significant financial resources to research and innovation, as well as to the preservation of the eu's genetic resources. but i want to stress that i voted against paragraphs that support the importance of new technologies (such as genetically modified organisms) and i want to reiterate that consumer health must be considered and gmos have not proved to be a viable alternative to conventional or organic farming. i believe that now and even in the future, with the help of innovation and research, we have and will have enough potential to ensure food security in the eu without having to compromise the health of our own citizens by supporting controversial technologies such as genetically modified organisms.
in writing. - i voted for the motion for a resolution on plant breeding: what are the options for increasing quality and productivity. the plant sector is essential for the productivity, diversity, health and quality of agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production and the environment. in order to meet future challenges such as food needs and climate change, it is of the utmost importance that we have an effective and competitive plant breeding sector. we welcome the development of partnerships between governments, industry and research organisations to stimulate research in the field of pre-breeding and plant breeding. we draw attention to the benefits of strengthening and extending these partnerships, as well as transnational initiatives in the sector. serious efforts are needed to conserve our genetic heritage and to cultivate and conserve local and regional varieties. we invite the commission to allocate financial resources and create a coherent structure for plant breeding research and practice within research programmes and other appropriate policy instruments so that european diversity can be preserved and enhanced. it is also important that plant breeding undertakings have unrestricted access to the results of research in the field.
the aim of the railway package is to make rail transport more attractive and safer for european citizens and european businesses. the union and the member states must ensure the necessary investments for the maintenance and modernisation of the european rail system. rail transport has lost important market shares due to a lack of investment in rail infrastructure, which has made the journey by train longer than by car on some railway segments. the objective of achieving the single european railway area will be achieved on the basis of social dialogue at union level to ensure that railway workers are adequately protected against the undesirable effects of market opening and by ensuring appropriate investment in the railway sector. interoperability and safety of rail transport are essential and require well-trained, fairly paid staff working in decent working conditions. the right to strike is a fundamental right and i therefore call for its respect and for caution with regard to the provisions relating to public service obligations. they also argue that the revenues generated from the management of railway infrastructure should be reinvested in rail transport. the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism support the creation of functional, interoperable, multimodal, integrated ticketing and information systems, which would allow the creation of a multimodal system at union level covering all rail passenger transport operators. this common system shall be established by 12 december 2019. i am surprised to find that although the new member states were required to implement functional separation for rail transport during the accession process, today the founding states of the union are opposed to functional separation. i demand that all the policies of the union apply the same rules for all. finally, i believe that the text voted by the committee on transport on the single european railway area is more flexible than the one proposed by the european commission, allowing member states which have achieved functional separation to return to an integrated model if they so wish.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mrs foster if she is still considering reducing costs, if we think in social terms - how many lives are saved by the implementation of the ecall system - and also reducing the costs of social security for the case of rapid intervention in these accidents?
ecall is a vital necessity for the safety of european citizens: drivers, passengers, road users. last year, more than 25 000 people lost their lives and more than 1.5 million were injured on europe's roads. the use of the ecall service contributes to reducing the number of victims and the severity of bodily injuries. the services provided by the galileo and egnos satellite navigation programmes will bring maximum benefits, ensuring the precise location of calls and the rapid response of emergency services. i support the mandatory fitting of ecall in vehicles without giving the user the possibility to deactivate the service, while ensuring the necessary protection of personal data. the establishment of the interoperable union-wide ecall system is essential to enhance road safety, to quickly and accurately locate an accident, and to effectively coordinate search and rescue teams. all the actors involved would benefit from the implementation of this programme: industry - by providing new technologies, equipment and components and increasing the competitiveness of the european automotive industry; services - by improving efficiency; communications - by improving data transmission technologies. the criticisms of the system, in particular by those who advocate stronger protection of personal data, are, in my view, unfounded. let's not forget: ecall is saving lives!
the importance of this debate on the implementation of the ecall system at european union level and the installation of an ecall system on board vehicles. since not all union citizens are familiar with the use of the ecall service, its deployment should be preceded by an information campaign explaining to citizens the benefits, functionalities and data protection measures of the new system. by the amendments tabled and adopted in the committee on transport and tourism, i requested all member states to sign the memorandum of understanding on the implementation of an interoperable pan-european ecall service in the union. it is also important that member states, telecommunications operators and vehicle manufacturers are encouraged to contribute to the development and deployment of the pan-european ecall service. it is important that member states ensure that the ecall service is free of charge for all users and that, by 1 october 2015, ecalls can be initiated from anywhere on their territory.
the 'health for growth' programme is a very useful tool for member states to invest effectively in health systems. i am pleased that this health programme provides for additional support for member states with lower per capita incomes. i hope that these conditions will lead to increased participation by this category of member states, including romania. this program doesn't necessarily mean spending more, but it does mean spending efficiently, in favor of developing sustainable health systems. this is also an opportunity for member states to invest in and use ehealth tools to increase access to healthcare for people in remote areas, but also to reduce inequalities and increase social inclusion. austerity measures have put a great deal of pressure on health systems in the european union, creating inequalities and threatening the sustainability of these systems in the future. it is very important that all health systems are patient-centred, and the european union and each individual member state have a role to play in repairing and improving health services for the population. i believe that more emphasis needs to be placed on evidence-based, results-based action and in this respect i welcome the proposal to measure the objectives and results of this programme in the future.
rap avis regi. this is the first time. - trans-european telecommunications networks and services play a key role in increasing economic competitiveness and ensuring the sustainable development of the european union. priorities such as high-speed networks, cross-border public service provision and smart energy services are areas where local and regional authorities play a key role, acting both as providers and beneficiaries. both the commission and the member states should support local and regional authorities to use public-private partnerships to provide broadband services, especially in rural areas. in this regard, it is essential that member states strengthen the administrative capacity of their public institutions at local, regional and national level and modernise their infrastructures to ensure the successful development and operation of trans-european telecommunications networks.
on behalf of the s&d group. the implementation of cross-border online public services will facilitate the mobility of businesses and citizens. the digital agenda underlines the need to ensure the widespread introduction and adoption of broadband at increasing speeds, both through fixed and wireless technologies, and to facilitate investment in the new ultra-fast, open and competitive internet networks that will be the arteries of the economy of the future. i consider it particularly important to remove the bottlenecks that stand in the way of completing the digital single market, namely by assuming network connectivity and access, including cross-border, to a digital public service infrastructure. these bottlenecks are driven by unconvincing commercial arguments for investments in broadband networks and in the provision of essential public services such as ehealth, eidentification, eprocurement and their cross-border interoperability. the growth potential of the digital single market, which is based on connecting all citizens, businesses and public administrations to digital networks, is untapped. i regret that the budget for the connecting europe facility for digital services has been drastically reduced from 9.2 billion to 1 billion euros. in this context, it was necessary to limit the scope of the programme. broadband networks, which are of fundamental importance for growth and job creation, are thus granted only limited intervention in this regulation for their development. in addition, some services, such as trans-european high-speed bus connections for public administrations and ict solutions for smart energy networks, were not included in the annex to this proposal, also for budgetary reasons. i would like to stress the potential of electronic invoicing, which is still largely untapped. the mass adoption of electronic invoicing across the european union would offer significant economic benefits. it is estimated that switching from paper to electronic invoices would generate savings of around eur 240 billion over a six-year period. the public procurement market is also estimated at over eur 2 400 billion. electronic public procurement has the potential to contribute to improving access to public procurement, in particular for smes, to increasing transparency, thereby stimulating cross-border competition, innovation and growth within the single markets.
in writing. the common european sales legislation is in my view a bold step forward towards a more integrated single market. many businesses are currently reluctant to sell products and services in other member states because of the divergent consumer protection laws they have to comply with, incurring significant adaptation costs. consumers are also reluctant, fearing that they will not be as well protected as if they were buying in their country of residence. these problems clearly represent an obstacle to businesses and consumers enjoying the benefits of the single market. it's a bold step because, given the different levels of protection, harmonization is an extremely difficult exercise. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of consumers are respected. still, as an optional instrument, i think it's worth a try. we will then see to what extent consumers and businesses opt for this regime, we will see how it works, and on the basis of experience we will then be able to progressively improve this legislation.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i want to ask mr. le hyaric. it is true that the youth guarantee is a very useful tool for reducing youth unemployment, in particular by training young people. however, without a modern, eco-efficient industry, capable of creating jobs to employ these well-trained young people, we will not be able to solve the problem of unemployment. so i'd like to know your opinion on the need to have a modern industry.
in writing. romania is one of the countries to benefit from the funds to combat youth unemployment. as 3 regions in my country have youth unemployment above 30%, it is very important that the youth guarantee implementation plan is coherent and provides for concrete measures. i would point out that identifying the sources of funding is very important to ensure that these plans will be successful. in the case of romania, unfortunately there was no public consultation on this document. regardless of whether the proposed measures offer an additional chance to romanian young people, i believe that a more active dialogue with employers and trade unions was necessary from the planning stage. i would point out, however, that many of the measures are very general and do not give a clear perspective on how they will be implemented.
in writing. aside from the fact that the romanian government has experienced an unacceptable delay in preparing the implementation of the 'youth guarantee', such an important programme, i would like to highlight some of the objectives that the same government has considered as a priority in the use of european funds. a recent report from the court of auditors points to some absolutely stunning investments. consider the following examples: in a project for 'management and entrepreneurship skills development', a mercedes-benz car was purchased for eur 42[nbsp ]000 with optional features such as parking assistance, heated seats, leather upholstery, etc. a nissan juke suv was purchased for a program to train 60 young and long-term unemployed. expenditure on car rental was reimbursed under the 'another chance in the labour market' and 'employment skills and resources centre' projects. the company from which the car was rented had as its majority shareholder the beneficiary of the project for which european funds had been contracted. romania receives an allocation of almost eur 100 million under the 'youth guarantee'. i hope that the government will not spend all this money on luxury cars and that perhaps there will be some european money left for the vocational training of unemployed young people.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the member states of the european union in april 2013 endorsed the youth guarantee. the role of the programme is to respond to the expectations of all young people under 25 by providing them with job opportunities or apprenticeship training, work experience and further training. i think it's good that the european commission is coordinating the sharing of good, effective practices between governments. in particular, the application in finland can be considered as an example. this is a clear success story that provides convincing evidence that the youth guarantee will soon pay off across the union. early intervention and activation are also crucial in the implementation of the youth guarantee. in the current economic climate, this balance is crucial to ensure that young people - particularly in the poorer member states - choose not to migrate for reasons of security. it is the responsibility of the eu member states to develop national implementation plans for the youth guarantee. romania has developed this in line with the national employment plan 2014-2020: the national model will build 26 centres and count 5000 beneficiaries in two years. it is clear that national guarantee schemes require close cooperation between the parties concerned. the member states' authorities and employment services, as well as education and training institutions, need to consult with economic operators in order to respond as effectively as possible to the challenges of the labour market.
in writing. currently, in the european union, over 5 million young people under 25 are unemployed, and over 7 million are not in employment or in vocational education or training. the youth guarantee is a useful tool aimed at reducing unemployment and training all actors involved in training young people and creating jobs. we regret the drastic reduction in the budget originally proposed for the youth guarantee and we appreciate that the budget approved will not be sufficient. we welcome the quality framework for traineeships proposed by the commission and believe that it will make a substantial contribution to ensuring the quality of training that young people will receive. we call on both the commission and the member states to organise extensive information campaigns, including through dedicated websites and dedicated webpages promoted in social networks, on the opportunities offered by the youth guarantee. i also believe that this instrument should be complemented by strategies and measures for the reindustrialisation of the european union on an eco-efficient basis. without a strong and competitive european industry, the union will not be able to provide jobs in europe in the medium and long term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, and i support the introduction of a new pillar of the european semester: the single market. but i remind you that the citizens of my country cannot fully enjoy one of the four fundamental freedoms - freedom of movement. finding a way to support financial recovery remains the main challenge in europe. and the quality of national reform programmes will determine economic sustainability, which is why country-specific recommendations must be taken very seriously. unfortunately, the socialist government in bucharest is failing miserably. taxation has increased, education and health reforms are non-existent, and the labor market is stagnating. the most worrying aspect is the quality of the institutions and the public administration, whose credibility is seriously damaged by the ponta government's behind-the-scenes games.
in writing. - the single market is a key driving force behind economic growth. however, to ensure growth and jobs, improving the implementation of existing rules is crucial. that is why we need a course of action to ensure that the rules on the single market work well in practice. the establishment of a coherent and integrated industrial policy is an essential element for the recovery of european economies and the development of a stable way out of the crisis. better protection of citizens' rights, both as workers and consumers, is fundamental to enhancing confidence in the single market and encouraging responsible behaviour. the coordination of single market policies should aim at rediscovering a new model of competitiveness based on knowledge and innovation.
in writing. - as emphasised in several forums and also at a recent european council, the single market continues to be a key driving force for growth and employment. it therefore needs to be governed with a strong sense of purpose and to be able to meet the challenges of a globalised world. the single market must therefore be coordinated in a way that takes account of the priorities proposed by the european parliament, protects consumers and businesses and, more generally, represents a real opportunity for the competitiveness of operators on the market.
in writing. - i support the inclusion of the single market in the 2014 european semester to accelerate the integration of the single market into the european union. this project needs to be prioritised if the union is to benefit from a strongly integrated single market by the end of 2020. by may 2013, an average of 30 commission findings of infringements of union-wide single market laws were awaiting resolution by the court of justice. the average duration of these is approximately 26 months. however, at least 7 of the 28 member states do not yet use other specialised tools for single market legislation such as solvit, the platform established in 2002. i ask the commission to communicate better and more clearly to the member states which are the means of informing and resolving infringements of single market laws, in order to give consumers confidence in the proper functioning of the union's legislative system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2014. the commission has identified services, financial services, transport, energy and the digital market as key areas for improving the functioning and deepening of the single market. an accessible and efficient european transport structure, an ambitious european industry and the creation of a single energy market that supports the competitiveness of european businesses and guarantees universal access to affordable energy for households and consumers are also vital for the eu's single market. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. industrial policy should include ensuring the application of single market rules, a comprehensive strategy on the external dimension of the single market, with a particular focus on coherent consumer protection policies and improved access to capital and infrastructure to increase the competitiveness of enterprises and facilitate their access to new markets. we stress that by removing barriers to the free movement of people, goods, services and capital, the single market gives businesses the opportunity to operate on a wider scale, thus strengthening their capacity to innovate, invest, increase productivity and create jobs.
in writing. - the convergence process in the eu has been hit by considerable difficulties due to the economic and financial crisis, which has particularly affected the less-favoured regions of europe. the decline in the process of establishing interregional cohesion is reflected in the widening disparities in indicators such as gdp per capita or the unemployment rate. european citizens and societies need a coherent cohesion policy that addresses, in addition to the absorption of european grants, the efficiency of investments in terms of their capacity to create jobs, to provide assistance to smes and, not least, to support the development of the research and innovation sector. i support this motion for a resolution to increase transparency and to orient cohesion policy towards better defined standards, looking in detail at the results achieved. i support the priority approach to funding lines and public expenditure in the field of education, research and innovation, as well as to combating the effects of unemployment in order to overcome the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which contains a number of important conclusions on cohesion policy in the period 2007-2013 and is also useful given that cohesion policy continues to be the main source of eu public funding in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. these conclusions are particularly important in a context where the economic, financial and social crisis has severely slowed down the convergence process, thus exacerbating disparities between regions. the evaluations of the report have an important role in future debates in the field and should provide a starting point, based on lessons and past experience, in improving the implementation of the set objectives.
in writing. - cohesion policy is the main source of eu public funding in the context of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, and the new cohesion policy framework places a strong emphasis on the need to concentrate investment at regional and local level on a limited number of areas considered to be the most important, such as job creation, smes, employment (especially among young people), labour mobility, training and education, research and innovation, etc. the commission and the member states need to increase investment in entrepreneurship, start-ups and self-employment as a means of creating more jobs, especially as smes and micro-enterprises account for over two thirds of all private sector jobs in the eu. the commission and the member states should also adopt growth-friendly policies that prioritise spending on education, lifelong learning, research and innovation, as austerity measures are not sufficient to tackle the current economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european commission's 8th interim report on eu cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programme. i agree that we need, at european level, more investment to stimulate entrepreneurship and a greater focus on smes as the main employers and job creators. i regret that overall the budget for cohesion policy 2014-2020 is lower than for the period 2007-2013. the real development needs of the eastern states of the union are immense, especially in romania, especially in terms of transport and social infrastructure, such as hospitals, schools and nursing homes. last but not least, i believe that all eu states, but especially the newer members of the union, including romania, need to explore the synergies between the programmes financed by the structural funds and the funding possibilities of european programmes such as erasmus plus, cosme, horizon 2020, the european health programme, etc.
in writing. - cohesion policy is one of the most important instruments contributing significantly to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. cohesion policy funding targets investment at regional level and is implemented through partnerships between authorities, the business community and civil society. cohesion policy is the main source of public investment in many member states, as funding accounts for more than half of total public investment in regions and urban areas. investment needs are different. most of the less developed regions, including those in romania, face problems such as poor or non-existent infrastructure, especially in the field of transport or energy efficiency. i am convinced that involving local and regional authorities in the definition of national development strategies can help to correctly identify specific challenges, reducing administrative burdens. i would point out that the partnership agreements stipulate the involvement of those authorities and consultation with the business community, academia and civil society. increasing investment in the entrepreneurial environment, support for the creation of new businesses and self-employment are vital levers for the development of smes. the importance of this report is particularly high because the improvement in employment and specialised development are measurable results of these investments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 7th and 8th commission interim reports on eu cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programme. evaluation plays an essential role in policy debate and learning, but while the provision of monitoring data and implementation information improves the quality of the targets set, the uneven quality of progress reports makes it difficult in many cases to provide a complete and accurate picture of progress towards the objectives at regional and local level. the economic, financial and social crisis has halted the convergence process, thus exacerbating disparities between regions and ending a long period in which regional disparities in terms of gdp per capita and unemployment in the eu have declined considerably, affecting primarily the weaker regions of the union. in this context, it is very important that both the commission and the member states increase investment in entrepreneurship, supporting the creation of new businesses and self-employment to create as many jobs as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 7th and 8th commission interim reports on eu cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programme. cohesion policy continues to be the main source of public funding for the eu in the context of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the new cohesion policy framework underlines the need to concentrate investment at regional and local level on a limited number of areas considered to be the most important, such as job creation, smes, employment (especially among young people), labour mobility, training and education, research and innovation, ict, sustainable transport and congestion reduction, sustainable energy, the environment, promoting the institutional capacity of public authorities and efficient public administration, urban development and cities. we believe that fiscal consolidation policies are insufficient to stimulate growth and promote investments that create quality and sustainable jobs. measures to support the economy and encourage progress are therefore necessary. we call on the commission and the member states to increase investment in entrepreneurship, business start-ups and self-employment as a means of creating more jobs.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the 7th and 8th commission interim reports on eu cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programme. i express my full appreciation to my colleagues, the rapporteurs, the opinion rapporteurs, the amenders, for the work they have done in assessing the effects of cohesion policy in the member states, but also in formulating recommendations to them with a view to making more efficient use of european funding for this policy. i believe that this report can be a good reference point for the 2014-2020 programming period for cohesion policy, especially as it will start against the backdrop of europe's worst recession in 50 years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it focuses on exploiting the potential of the outermost regions. these regions can provide a lever for economic development in high value-added sectors such as agri-food, biodiversity, renewable energy, astrophysics, aerospace, etc. however, in order to achieve all the objectives, i believe that reducing the accessibility deficit and the effects of other constraints specific to these areas is the first priority for these regions. this could also be a solution to the problems of social exclusion faced by people living in these areas.
in writing. - investing in the outermost regions and becoming aware of both their contributions and their role means investing in the construction of a european union at the cutting edge. synergies between the structural funds for the ors and all other funds and other union strategies and policies must therefore continue to be promoted and supported. europe's support for its outermost regions is not simply an expression of european solidarity but a support which benefits the whole union in order to achieve its objectives in terms of growth, influence at world level and participation in solving major global challenges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the optimal development of the potential of the outermost regions by creating synergies between the structural funds and other european union programmes. i welcome the new perspective in the relationship between the european union and its outermost regions, including the european commission's intention to implement policies that encourage sustainable job creation and economic growth in these regions. i therefore welcome the way in which the report concretely details the synergies between the structural funds available to the outermost regions and the various funding programmes administered directly by the european commission or by european agencies. the outermost regions must also be able to access funding programmes from brussels, such as life plus, horizon 2020, cosme or the european youth programmes. as the report notes, the outermost regions have often been left out of these funding lines. moreover, on most maps presenting european programmes and policies, the outermost regions are missing, thus proving that they are not only on the periphery of the eu, but on the periphery of the union's attention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the optimal development of the outermost regions' potential by creating synergies between the structural funds and other european union programmes, as it aims to go beyond the current vision by proposing a completely new approach whereby investment policies in the outermost regions are opened up to new areas and foster the sustainable development of these territories. i consider it particularly important to encourage long-term investment and to promote the innovation potential of the outermost regions in order to strengthen their economic and social potential in a sustainable way and to increase the chances of success of the various union strategies. as is well known, the economic and social crisis is having particularly severe effects in the eu's outermost regions, especially in terms of competitiveness and employment. therefore, in order to meet the need for growth and to tackle unemployment, urgent and appropriate measures are needed in the next funding and programming period. it is important to have a pragmatic approach so that constraints, obstacles and deadlocks are removed from all union policies to allow the outermost regions to participate fully in them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the optimal development of the outermost regions' potential by creating synergies between the structural funds and other european union programmes. the outermost regions (ors) are composed of a group of archipelagos, islands and a region located in the amazon rainforest, which are characterised by specific common constraints that differentiate them from other geographical areas of the union with special characteristics (island, mountainous and sparsely populated regions). i believe that improving access of the octs to the various union programmes and funds leads, in the short and long term, to benefits for the union as a whole. we call for investments through services of general economic interest in ict, transport, water and energy to become a priority in these regions and support a more coherent framework for state aid to the ors to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. we believe that the ors have the potential to be at the forefront of research and technology in the areas covered by the objectives of horizon 2020, such as space, aerospace, biotechnology, natural risk monitoring, marine research, biodiversity, renewable energy, health, climate change adaptation and smart transport.
in writing. - budgetary authorities need predictability of the effectiveness of the objectives they set. this cannot be achieved without an effective assessment of the performance of the operational objectives committed on the basis of how public expenditure has contributed to achieving those objectives. in view of the above, i am in favour of adopting this motion for a resolution. conformity and performance, audit and evaluation with a view to the fairest possible drawing up of public budgets are all part of building an efficient and high-performing discharge system for the european commission. it is very important to remember from one budget year to the next which are the pillars that can be improved, and building current budgets on the performance of past budgets is imperative. the measures contained in the report can lead not only to an increase in the efficiency of the european institutions but also to an increase in their transparency, which is of great importance to european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because checks on the proper management of european union funds are particularly important. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome the introduction of performance-based evaluation of the union's finances. moreover, the european parliament will have the opportunity and the duty to make an objective assessment of the results of policies, and in particular of financial operations. such evaluations play a key role in performance-based budgeting, in particular when accompanied by incentives or alternative budgeting principles.
in writing. - as the report points out, i believe that the commission's assessment of the union's finances should serve as a means of information and inspiration for the court of auditors and also to inform parliament in its annual report and to invite it to take it into account when drawing up its performance audit programme. in this sense, i welcome the call for greater transparency on reporting and monitoring of the work done at european institutional level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the performance-based evaluation of the union's finances: a new tool for an improved discharge procedure of the european commission. i am pleased that the european parliament's recommendations have been included by the european commission in its latest report on the evaluation of the union's finances. however, i regret that in its report the european commission has summarised a series of evaluations of community programmes in the thematic areas, rather than focusing on the achievement of its objectives and the effectiveness of its policies. as the court of auditors has also found, despite the improvements made, the reports do not provide sufficient evidence of the results of european union policies. or, such information is important to track how the eu budget makes it possible to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. last but not least, i welcome the european commission's intention to structure its evaluation report in line with the new performance framework for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - i voted to change the structure of the report which assesses the european union's finances on the basis of the results of projects undertaken by the european commission at the end of each year of activity. in accordance with article 318 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european commission is required to present, in addition to the financial report, an evaluation report on the finances, based on the results achieved in projects that are to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the evaluation report has been produced so far for the years 2010 and 2011. however, none of the evaluations shows whether or not funds are invested effectively in projects initiated by the european commission. it considers that a new structure for the preparation of the evaluation report is urgently needed to enhance transparency in the use of eu funds. i ask the european commission to make the necessary changes by the time the next evaluation report is published.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the evaluation of the union's finances on the basis of the results achieved: a new instrument for an improved discharge procedure of the european commission. we consider that, by focusing on the union's finances on the basis of the results achieved, the evaluation report provided for in article 318 tfeu complements the compliance-based approach presented by the court of auditors in chapters 1 to 9 of its annual report and enables parliament to exercise its power of political control over the actions of european public authorities more effectively. we welcome the commission's intention to structure its evaluation report in line with the new performance framework for the next multiannual financial framework and to base its report on this framework. i believe that such a performance framework should include the following three main elements: the achievement of the programme objectives (results), the good management of the programme by the commission and the member states, and how the programme results and good management contribute to the achievement of the main objectives of the union. we ask the commission to submit to the european parliament and the council the evaluation report on the union's finances on the basis of the results obtained, as provided for in the second paragraph of article 318 tfeu, before 30 june of the year following the financial year under evaluation.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption of the report on the performance evaluation of the union's finances: a new tool for the improved discharge procedure of the european commission; i consider that this evaluation report (as provided for in article 318 tfeu) contributes to the analytical capacity of the budgetary authority to extract relevant information from the accumulated experience. i voted for this report because i believe it is the missing link between performance appraisal and performance auditing, but also that it will help to strengthen the performance culture in eu financial management.
in writing. - i supported this report because the infrastructure of the ecall emergency call centres is of particular importance. romania is the first country in europe to have prepared the infrastructure for the ecall emergency service through the special telecommunications service. the ecall will be taken over by the dispatcher, who will transmit the accident location and passenger numbers to the ambulance services, the police and the emergency services. finally, the harmonised implementation of this service in the eu must become a priority action for improving road safety and for implementing intelligent transport systems in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation and i consider that this vote was necessary to guarantee the legal consistency of the acts which the union concludes with third countries. the new agreement extends cooperation with the central american states and seeks to strengthen relations with this region in the interest of both parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement for political dialogue and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republics of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, of the other part, with the exception of article 49 (3). the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on the european economic area, including in the implementation of the agreement on the european economic area. it paves the way for new initiatives to achieve common objectives and establish a common basis in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration and the fight against corruption, terrorism, drugs, small arms and light weapons. the agreement provides a basis for the launch of initiatives and supports efforts to develop initiatives, including cooperation, as well as actions throughout the latin american region. the parties also agree that enhanced political dialogue allows for a broad exchange of information and provides a platform for joint initiatives at international level.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption of a new political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the eu and central america (cpa) and the republics of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama; i voted in favour of the rapporteur's recommendation that the european parliament should approve this agreement. the tprk aims to strengthen the cooperation established in previous treaties. the parties have committed to cooperate towards the conclusion of an association agreement, signed in june 2012 after five years of negotiations, currently applying only the trade pillar of the association agreement. it is worth noting that the remainder of the agreement requires ratification by all eu member states, a process which is ongoing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation and i consider that this vote was necessary to guarantee the legal consistency of the acts which the union concludes with third countries. the new agreement extends cooperation with the central american states and seeks to strengthen relations with this region in the interest of both parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republics of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, of the other part, as regards article 49 (3). in accordance with article 49 (3), in the framework of cooperation aimed at preventing and controlling illegal migration, the parties also agree to readmit their own illegal migrants. the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has recommended that the conclusion of the agreement be approved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, the contents of which are of particular importance, particularly in view of the current situation on the labour market. the council guidelines - the main common objectives at eu level - are the guidelines that guide the action of the member states, but also of the union, and are an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy. and the european employment strategy has the main role in implementing the employment objectives. however, to ensure their effectiveness and to guarantee tangible results, member states and the commission need to work together constantly, and in a coordinated manner, facilitating the exchange of good practices and the urgent implementation of european programmes in this area.
in writing. - the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states and the union shall take measures to develop a coordinated strategy for employment and, in particular, to promote a trained, skilled and adaptable workforce and labour markets able to respond to economic change. the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission enables the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the strategy has the main role in implementing the employment and labour market objectives of the new strategy. member states should continue to make all efforts to address the following priorities: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce that meets labour market needs and promoting quality jobs and lifelong learning, improving the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in tertiary education, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. the employment guidelines adopted in 2010 should be maintained for 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. according to that decision, the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states as defined in the annex to the council decision of 21 october 2010 on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states are maintained for 2014 and are taken into account by the member states in their employment policies. these comprise 4 sections: increasing labour market participation among women and men, reducing structural unemployment and promoting quality jobs; developing a skilled workforce to meet labour market needs and promoting lifelong learning; improving the quality and performance of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in tertiary or equivalent education; promoting social inclusion and combating poverty
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the action programme to reduce administrative burdens in the eu must continue. for budgetary reasons, but also to avoid situations where member states apply different treatment to the same intra-community transaction, the harmonisation of current vat legislation and practices must be constantly pursued. in this regard, the european commission's objectives of enhancing the efficiency of vat collection, reducing red tape, and reducing costs for member states' authorities and taxpayers are welcome. last but not least, standard returns can also be a vat control tool available to member states to eliminate vat fraud, especially in cross-border activities.
in writing. - as is well known, the european union's value added tax is a general consumption tax on a broad basis, calculated on the basis of the value added of all commercial activities involving the production, distribution of goods and the provision of services. unfortunately, we are now seeing a deficit in the effectiveness of the vat collection system in the eu, which must therefore be improved by removing bureaucratic obstacles and reducing the costs that they impose both on the administration of the member states and on taxable persons. the proposal adopted today strikes a reasonable balance and proportionality between the need to reduce the burden on business and the need to remove the obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - i support the introduction of a standard vat return by amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of vat. this change will ease the bureaucracy in the tax collection process and reduce the high level of fraud recorded up to 2011. a study published by the european commission in september 2013 shows that the total amount of vat not collected in the european union amounted to eur 193 million in 2011. for example, italy lost €32 billion, germany €27 billion, and the united kingdom €19.4 billion. romania also had a loss of 8% of gross domestic product due to the uncollected value added tax. i stress the urgent need to reduce these losses caused primarily by fraud by introducing the standard vat return.
in writing. - i voted for the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards a standard vat return. businesses increasingly complain that when doing business in the eu it is difficult to comply with vat rules, especially in the case of e-commerce and the supply of goods in the internal market, where the customer is a natural person and the supplier has to register, declare and pay vat in the customer's member state. these obligations can create obstacles to cross-border trade and a standard vat return can reduce these obstacles. a standard vat return will enable all undertakings to provide each member state with standardised information, presented in a common format, preferably electronically. thus, an undertaking filing a vat return in one member state can easily complete and file a vat return in another member state because the information and the way of filing are standardised. i support the introduction at eu level of a single standard vat return that would be available to all businesses.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the common system of value added tax. i hope that the introduction of the standard vat return will make it possible to reduce the administrative burden of vat collection by up to eur 15 billion per calendar year, as estimated by the european commission. i believe that this reduction could represent a welcome saving for public expenditure in eu member states, and not just in times of crisis. i agree with the rapporteur and welcome the objective set out in the commission's proposal to make vat collection more efficient, while reducing red tape and related costs for both the tax authorities of the member states and taxable persons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which provides for a derogation to introduce specific measures in favour of areas which affect the economic and social situation of the outermost regions. this measure will allow portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to certain products which are produced and consumed locally in the autonomous region of madeira and the autonomous region of the azores. in particular, it concerns the reduced excise duty on rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in madeira and on liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed in the azores. such a provision is necessary, in particular because the transport to the islands of certain raw materials, which are not produced locally, entails additional costs compared to the transport of the finished product.
in writing. - i support the extension of decision 2009/831/ec for the outermost regions by 6 months, as i believe that its expiry should coincide with the entry into force of the new regional aid guidelines for 2014-2020. producers in the regions of madeira and the azores face higher production costs due to their geographical position as outermost regions and this decision may help them to compensate for the additional cost levels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2009/831/ec as regards its period of application. decision 2009/831/ec authorises portugal to apply until 31 december 2013 a reduced rate of excise duty to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed locally in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed locally in the autonomous region of the azores. article 2 of that decision limits that derogation to certain products. portugal may apply to those products an excise duty rate lower than the alcohol excise duty rate laid down in article 3 of directive 92/84/ec and lower than the minimum alcohol excise duty rate laid down in that directive, without falling more than 75% below the national level of the alcohol excise duty. on 28 june 2013, the commission adopted new regional aid guidelines for the period 2014-2020. given that those guidelines enter into force on 1 july 2014, it is justified to extend the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec by six months in order to coincide with the expiry date of the current guidelines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the obstacles to the full development of these regions can be alleviated by specific measures. moreover, given the economic dependence on a small number of products, their potential must be exploited. the measures voted on today are therefore designed to strengthen local industry by increasing its competitiveness, and the introduction of a differentiated taxation system for 59 locally produced products in mayotte will be able to compensate both for the low competitiveness in the region and the additional costs of local products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2004/162/ec as regards its application to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. decision 2004/162/ec authorises france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the dock dues for certain products manufactured in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. the annex to that decision sets out the list of products to which the exemptions or reductions may be applied. the french authorities informed the commission of their intention to introduce a dock dues in mayotte under similar conditions to those in guyana and asked the commission for authorisation to apply a tax regime differentiated according to whether or not the products are locally manufactured. the proposal for a council decision aims to adapt council decision 2004/162/ec so that it becomes applicable to mayotte. the proposal also lays down, for mayotte, the lists of products for which france will be authorised to apply, within certain limits, exemptions or reductions from the so-called dock dues for certain locally manufactured products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this interim report because indonesia is becoming an increasingly important player on the global stage and the union must therefore adapt its policies towards this country. with the fourth largest population in the world, indonesia can represent a huge outlet market for eu producers. whether it is the automotive industry or other industries where the union excels, deepening relations with indonesia could give a new impetus to european manufacturers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, with the exception of readmission issues. relations between the european union and the republic of indonesia are to be governed by the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (cfa). we call for better infrastructure and connectivity, as well as an improved regulatory framework, to be pursued through cooperation under the provisions of the acp on trade and investment, taxation and customs, economic policy dialogue, environment, industrial policy and smes, and transport. we urge the eu and indonesia to use apcs in order to achieve long-term geostrategic benefits in addressing global security challenges in bilateral, regional and global multilateral fora, such as addressing climate change and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, combating terrorism, corruption, organised crime, drug trafficking, money laundering and terrorist financing, cooperation in data protection, as well as continuing cooperation in other areas not explicitly covered by apcs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because, in addition to being a very large country, indonesia also has a particularly important geostrategic position, which makes the union interested in deepening relations with this state. the potential for developing eu-indonesia trade relations is very high, given that trade between the two sides was only 23 billion in 2011. as the largest country in asean, indonesia could become a more important regional player and the union should take advantage of this prospect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a framework agreement on global partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, with the exception of readmission issues, approving the conclusion of the agreement. indonesia is the world's fourth most populous country, the third largest democracy, the largest predominantly muslim country with millions of adherents of other faiths, and a diverse society of over 240 million citizens of various ethnicities, languages and cultures, 40% of whom are under the age of 25, strategically located in an archipelago of over 17,000 islands stretching 5,400 km east to west across the indian and pacific oceans. i support the conclusion of the agreement in the light of the draft framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, and having regard to the recommendation of the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because indonesia, being a highly populated country with a low average age but also with a high degree of poverty, is prone to emigration trends. the commission also found that the indonesian exporting producers were not able to obtain sufficient quantities of the product concerned from the sampled exporting producers to meet the requirements of the undertaking. the readmission clause is therefore a particularly important component in the relations between the union and indonesia. i would point out, however, that this clause should be suspended when human rights violations occur, so as not to encourage any abuse by the authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, on readmission matters, approving the conclusion of the agreement. i support the conclusion of the agreement in the light of the draft framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, and having regard to the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because most of the illegal immigrants who arrive on the territory of the european union arrive here via turkey. the readmission agreement could thus make a major contribution to reducing illegal immigration, but also to stopping criminal phenomena such as drug or human trafficking. however, i cannot accept that ratification by the turkish side is conditional on progress in the dialogue on visa liberalisation in the eu. turkey is a particularly important partner of the european union and sincere cooperation in full solidarity is essential to advance and deepen the dialogue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision to conclude the eu-turkey agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. at the moment, the most common route used by migrants and refugees from all over the world on their way to the eu is the overland route through turkey to greece. turkey is thus the main transit country for illegal immigration into the eu. in order to make the return of migrants who have entered the union illegally possible, the eu and turkey have agreed to open negotiations on a readmission agreement. this agreement obliges the parties to readmit their own nationals, as well as, where appropriate, third-country nationals without residence permits and stateless persons, and sets out procedural and technical criteria for readmission. the negotiations were concluded in 2011. turkey only initialled the agreement, with the turkish side suddenly making the signing of the agreement conditional on the development of a roadmap on visa liberalisation by the union. the subsequent commission action plan on the gradual liberalisation of visas makes such liberalisation conditional on turkey implementing legislative and administrative reforms on the security of identity documents, cooperation with the border authorities of the european union and respect for fundamental rights. the action plan was adopted by the council on 30 november 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of my colleague renate sommer's recommendation on the readmission agreement with turkey, considering that it could make a significant contribution to limiting illegal immigration from turkey to the eu. i believe that the implementation of the provisions of this agreement will be beneficial in combating cross-border crime, in particular trafficking in human beings, and would ease the pressure on greece and therefore on the european union. however, i am disappointed that turkey is delaying the ratification of the readmission agreement, making it conditional on the european union introducing concrete measures to facilitate the issuance of visas for turkish citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation, but i hope that such measures will only be taken in exceptional circumstances, as multilingualism is one of the cornerstones of this parliament. each language must be given equal treatment for reasons of transparency, accessibility and cultural diversity. moreover, the european parliament is distinguished from the other institutions of the union by its obligation to ensure the highest degree of multilingualism. i therefore support this recommendation, but the necessary efforts to ensure comprehensive interpretation services must be stepped up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision to extend the application of rule 147 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament until the end of the eighth parliamentary term. in accordance with rule 147, derogations from rule 146 are authorised until the end of the seventh parliamentary term if and to the extent that the number of linguists for an official language is insufficient, although all necessary measures have been taken to that effect. for each official language for which a derogation is deemed necessary, the bureau shall, on a proposal from the secretary-general, determine whether the necessary conditions are met and shall review its decision every six months. thus, although the capacity for translation into croatian is steadily increasing following croatia's accession to the eu, it may not be possible to ensure full coverage of the needs in this language once the eighth legislature has started. it is also estimated that the irish and maltese languages will not have the capacity to provide full interpretation services in these languages at the beginning of the eighth parliamentary term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and welcome the fact that electronic voting will be extended to the reports of the european parliament. i also welcome the fact that the final vote in parliament's committees will also be able to be carried out electronically at the request of at least a quarter of the committee members. i believe that this will increase the degree of transparency in decision-making and that european citizens will be able to better monitor how their representatives in parliament pursue and defend their interests.
in writing. - i voted to amend rule 166 on the final vote and rule 195 (3) on the vote in committee of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. when taking a decision on the basis of a report, parliament shall vote by a single vote and/or finally by roll-call in accordance with rule 167 (2). the vote on amendments shall be by roll-call only following a request made in accordance with rule 167. the single and/or final vote in committee on a report shall be by roll call in accordance with rule 167 (2). voting on amendments and other votes shall be by show of hands, unless the chair decides to use electronic voting or a quarter of the committee members request a roll call vote. i would stress the importance of these amendments to the rules of procedure, as they will ensure full transparency of the decisions taken in the committees and in the european parliament's plenary.
in writing. - the economic development of the european union is a major objective of public policy, especially as rail transport is one of the factors that can make a decisive contribution to the resumption of the economic growth process. increasing the economic efficiency of rail transport and creating a single european railway area are the appropriate instruments to achieve this. in these circumstances, i believe that the start of a process of liberalisation can lead to both an increase in the efficiency of the railway system and an increase in the importance of rail transport in european economic activities. however, the objectives of ensuring high quality services and maintaining a high level of european competitiveness must be pursued further.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the rail network in use has decreased by 2% in the last 10 years, while the motorway network has expanded by 27%. the potential of rail infrastructure in the internal market is huge and at the same time a determining factor of sustainable growth. in many member states, the markets for domestic transport services are closed to competition, which limits their development. i believe that the new railway package has the potential to realise a genuine internal market in the sector. to this end, it is essential that the relevant legislation is effectively and fully applied in all member states within the time limits set. the opening of the market for domestic passenger services will increase competitive pressure on national rail systems. mobility will increase and costs will fall, to the benefit of european travellers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the directive establishing the single european railway area, as regards the opening of the market for domestic rail passenger services and the governance of railway infrastructure. the completion of the opening of the union rail market should be considered essential for rail transport to become a credible alternative to other modes of transport in terms of price and quality. the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport will lead to greater flexibility and more opportunities for companies and passengers. the opening will also benefit railway staff as it will improve their chances of providing services to new entrants to the market. experienced workers can add value to new actors, leading to improved working conditions. the issue of improving railway safety should be given serious consideration during the process of opening up the market for domestic rail passenger services in order to avoid creating new administrative obstacles that would undermine the maintenance and improvement of safety. it is also important for railway undertakings to be involved in the development of integrated ticketing systems, in particular for local and regional transport, in order to increase the attractiveness of rail passenger transport.
in writing. - the development of rail transport is important for the european union as a whole, not just from the economic perspective that this strategic direction implies. at a time when member states' economies and societies are still making major efforts to create the conditions for the resumption of economic growth, investments in the development of railway infrastructure or in the upgrading of rolling stock represent an opportunity that should not be missed. at the same time, the development of rail transport can create jobs and help to support the research and innovation process, which is essential to maintain a high level of competitiveness of european companies. on the other hand, the development of rail transport has an important social role. in the same way, the increase in the number of rail passengers can make a positive contribution to european policies to reduce the impact on the environment and combat climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it has become clear that the efficiency, and in particular the quality, of public services for rail passenger transport needs to be improved. this is vital in my view in the efforts to complete the opening of the union rail market. the commission notes that the 2012 eurobarometer survey showed that the number of railway undertakings in the union is increasing, with a number of undertakings having a higher capacity than the number of undertakings in the union. the new targets set are therefore an essential step towards rail being a credible alternative to other modes of transport in terms of price and quality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the market for domestic rail passenger services. rail transport plays an important role in terms of both social, environmental and mobility planning and can significantly increase its overall share of european passenger transport. in this respect, investments in research, infrastructure and rolling stock can contribute significantly to new growth, thus directly leading to higher employment in the rail transport sector and indirectly through increased mobility of workers from other sectors. rail transport can become a major modern industry of the union, provided that member states agree on enhanced cooperation. the completion of the opening of the union rail market should be considered essential for rail transport to become a credible alternative to other modes of transport in terms of price and quality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the conditions for the technical specifications for interoperability are essential for the safety of rail transport. compliance with the rules on technical standards in terms of design, maintenance, upgrading or the professional qualification of personnel often makes the difference between a safe means of transport and a unsafe one. in this context, the fourth railway package will enhance the quality and efficiency of rail transport services by removing the last remaining administrative and technical barriers and in particular by establishing a common approach to safety and interoperability rules. all these measures are necessary to increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating across the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the interoperability of the rail system in the european union, as part of the fourth european railway package. with over 8 billion passengers a year, 10% of freight transport and 800[nbsp ]000 jobs, rail transport plays an important role in the european union. one only has to look at the figures to understand the need for harmonised legislation: there are currently over 11000 national technical and safety rules, which are clearly barriers to the opening up of the railway sector. the elimination of these can improve rail transport services and will make it possible to achieve european environmental policy also through the rail transport lever. we must avoid a repeat of the experience of the third european railway package, which has not yet been fully transposed by all eu member states. it is imperative that the remaining legislative provisions be implemented as a matter of urgency so that the fourth package, including the railway interoperability directive, can be correctly and fully transposed across the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the interoperability of the rail system in the european union. in order to enable union citizens, economic operators and regional and local authorities to fully benefit from the advantages of an area without internal borders and to achieve the objective of territorial cohesion, it is advisable, in particular, to improve the interconnection and interoperability of national rail networks and access to those networks, including for passengers with disabilities, by implementing any measures that may prove necessary in the field of harmonisation of technical standards. this directive lays down the conditions to be met for achieving interoperability in the union rail system in a way that ensures compatibility with the provisions of the directive on the safety of the union rail system. those conditions shall relate to the design, construction, commissioning, upgrading, renewal, operation and maintenance of the elements of that system, as well as the professional qualifications and health and safety conditions of the personnel contributing to its operation and maintenance. the pursuit of this objective necessarily requires the establishment of an optimal level of technical harmonisation, which makes it possible to participate in the gradual creation of the internal market for equipment and services for the construction, renewal, upgrading and operation of the rail system in the union.
i voted in favour of this report and the whole rail package. trains are less polluting and safer than other means of transport, but they account for only 6% of passenger transport in the union. i believe that a well-developed rail system brings economic, social and operational benefits. competitiveness will lead to lower prices, smoother road traffic and a lower environmental impact. but reform of this system must start with passenger safety. even though it ranks second in the ranking of the safest means of transport, the number of accidents is high: over 2 000 incidents in 2011, resulting in almost 1 200 deaths. tragedies like last summer's in spain can and must be avoided.
in writing. - rail transport remains essential for the european union as the safest form of public transport. despite the success of measures to increase railway safety, there are still steps to be taken in this direction. in this context, it is necessary to improve safety measures for people using level crossings and for people living in the vicinity of railway lines. clarifying the distinct responsibilities of the actors involved in the rail transport process, managing the increasing complexity of this system, driven by the increasing intensity of its cross-border dimension, are just some of the factors that make it necessary to concentrate the union's efforts in this direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of modernising the european parliament and council directive on railway safety. although rail transport is the safest mode of transport in the european union, rare accidents can have disastrous consequences, resulting in huge human and financial losses. we all remember the tragedy of july 2013 in santiago de compostela, spain, where 79 people lost their lives and 140 were injured. as part of the new european railway package, i also believe that it is important to improve railway safety in practice through the amendments to this directive. the new directive corrects the legislative shortcomings of the old directive 49/2004, the provisions of which were, as is well known, used for protectionist purposes. i support the idea of introducing a single safety certificate for the whole union, issued by the railway agency. the introduction of the single certificate will improve railway safety as well as the certification process, with benefits that translate into savings of time and resources at european level.
in writing. - i voted for the proposal for a directive on railway safety. rail transport is already the safest mode of transport in the eu and has improved its safety performance in recent decades. although rail transport performance has increased from around 200 billion travel kilometres in 1970 to over 300 billion today, the average annual death rate of rail passengers has decreased from around 400 in the early 1970s to less than 100 today. safety should be ensured not only for passengers and staff, including contractors' staff, but also for persons using level crossings and persons living near railway lines. in line with technical and scientific progress, railway safety should be further improved, taking into account the expected improvement in the competitiveness of the railway mode of transport. this directive contains minimum provisions, member states being allowed to introduce more stringent legislative provisions only in accordance with article 8, designed to ensure the further development and improvement of safety on the union's railways and improved market access for rail transport services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the european union agency for railways contributes to the integration of european rail systems by strengthening train safety and ensuring the possibility of crossing the borders of the member states. the proposed amendments are necessary because a number of developments have taken place in european railways and rail transport since 2004 when the original draft regulation establishing the agency was drafted. the legal status needed to be clarified, new rules introduced and, in particular, existing processes simplified. all these measures will lead to an improvement in the functioning of the agency, and by implication to the guarantee of high safety and quality standards on eu railways.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the european union agency for railways and for the repeal of regulation (ec) no 881/2004. the fourth railway package proposes important changes to the agency's tasks. this regulation provides in particular for the performance of tasks related to the issuing of vehicle authorisations and safety certificates, in particular in cross-border traffic at union level. this implies a more important role for the agency. the agency should contribute to the creation and effective functioning of a single european railway area without borders, which ensures a high level of safety and at the same time improves the competitive position of the railway sector. this objective should be achieved by contributing, in technical terms, to the implementation of european union legislation by increasing the level of interoperability of railway systems and to the development of a common approach to safety in the european railway system. the agency should also fulfil the role of european authority responsible for issuing, at union level, authorisations to place on the market railway vehicles and vehicle types, safety certificates for railway undertakings and authorisations to put into service european rail traffic management system (ertms) subsystems which are located or operated throughout the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because regulation no 1192/69, which allowed member states to grant compensation to a limited number of railway undertakings for the payment of obligations such as special family allowances and pensions, is no longer relevant or necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to repeal council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. at european level, a number of legislative measures have been adopted which have opened up the markets for rail freight and international rail passenger transport to competition. directive 2012/34/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 21 november 2012 on the establishment of a single european railway area (recast) established certain fundamental principles, which provide that railway undertakings must be managed on the basis of the principles applicable to companies, that the entities responsible for allocating capacity and charging railway infrastructure must be separate from the entities operating rail services, that there must be a separation of accounts. it has also been established that any railway undertaking authorised in accordance with eu criteria must have access to railway infrastructure on fair and non-discriminatory terms and that infrastructure managers may benefit from state funding. the deadline for transposition of directive 2012/34/eu into national law is 16 june 2015. this regulation shall enter into force two years after its publication in the official journal of the european union.
i supported this report because although at union level the annual rate of passenger air transport incidents has been relatively low, in my country the situation is different. in 2012, the number of reported civil aviation events increased by 51% compared to the previous year, which is more than worrying. unfortunately, there are also unfortunate incidents that lead to the tragic loss of human lives, as was the case with the recent accident in the apuseni mountains. i hope that this regulation will help to reduce the number of accidents involving aircraft and the number of deaths caused by them. this can be achieved by improving existing systems at national and european level and by using the experience of civil aviation events to correct safety problems and prevent real catastrophes.
in writing. - as air traffic is forecast to grow strongly by 2030, parliament discussed the need to strengthen air safety prevention systems. the proposal for a regulation aims to strengthen and deepen the proactive accident prevention system through analysis and rapid exchange of information, contributing to the achievement of the objectives set out in the 2011 white paper on transport. this information will be collected in an anonymous and secure database, the central european register (cer), to which easa and member states will have free access in order to enhance aviation safety throughout the territory.
in writing. - in order to avoid an increase in the number of aviation accidents due to the intensification of air traffic, a number of proactive measures are needed. while the accident investigation systems in the union are functioning, more efficient systems for data collection and analysis are needed. those systems should be applied uniformly throughout the union in order to be interpreted in the same way in all member states. it is also necessary to improve the protection of aviation employees when they report an incident. employees should enjoy the same level of protection throughout the union, thereby increasing aviation safety. such reporting can prevent possible aviation accidents and reduce loss of life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation on the reporting, analysis and follow-up of civil aviation occurrences. this regulation aims to improve aviation safety by ensuring the reporting, collection, storage, protection, exchange, dissemination and analysis of relevant safety information relating to civil aviation. this regulation thus ensures: the prompt adoption of safety measures, where appropriate, based on the analysis of the information collected; the permanent availability of safety information through the introduction of rules on confidentiality and the appropriate use of information, as well as the harmonised and enhanced protection of the reporter and persons referred to in occurrence reports; and the examination and treatment of aviation safety risks at both union and national level. there should be an exchange of information on events within the union in order to improve the detection of actual or potential hazards. this exchange of information should also allow member states to have access to all information relating to events occurring on their territory or in their airspace but which are reported to another member state. it is important to emphasise that the sole objective of occurrence reporting is the prevention of accidents and incidents, and not the establishment of fault or liability.
i voted in favour of the report because, even though europe has some of the safest roads in the world, the number of road casualties is still alarming. the ecall system has the potential to save thousands of lives and increase safety on european roads. i welcome the fact that the draft has been translated into a regulation, in a context where the 112 directive has shown its shortcomings. the commission will have the role of actively monitoring transposition in the member states, as only correct implementation can bring concrete results. in romania, the percentage of accidents with deaths or serious injuries is higher than the european average. this is also one of the reasons why it was the first european country to prepare the necessary infrastructure for the ecall system.
in writing. - i believe that it is of the utmost importance that major efforts are made, at the level of national authorities as well as at the european level, to ensure a high degree of efficiency and interoperability in the implementation of the e-call system. in this context, i support the proposal for all member states to sign the memorandum envisaging the implementation of this system. i also believe that the european parliament's call to the member states of the european union to ensure a high level of institutional efficiency of this system is entirely legitimate. the implementation of this system is necessary as its existence can lead to a significant reduction in the response times in the event of major accidents, both in urban and rural areas.
in writing. - very often, new technologies can contribute to our safety and even to saving human lives. the ecall system is one such application in the field of road safety and i believe that, despite the data protection objections, it should be supported. it's very true that this system is based on data collection. however, i think we have to take into account that the system is a latent one, which is activated only in the event of an accident, just as an airbag opens only in the event of a vehicle impact. what's constantly being transmitted would just be the last 3 digits that correspond to the gps location. however, i believe that the proposal contains sufficient data protection safeguards. i supported, however, an amendment which would allow drivers to turn off the system if they considered it too intrusive, so that individual users could explicitly agree to the collection of vehicle position data, as with other technological applications that collect personal data. even though this amendment was not adopted, i nevertheless supported the final report because the argument of saving lives seems to me to be stronger than any minor breaches of data protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval requirements for the installation of an ecall in-vehicle system and amending directive 2007/46/ec. i believe that it is necessary to make it compulsory to have an automatic warning system on board cars in case of an accident, because such a system will reduce the number of deaths from car accidents. loss of life is an economic and social burden on the union which should not be neglected. the ecall system has the capability to reduce the response time of the competent authorities by automatically notifying the nearest intervention centre in less time than a human intervention. even if the passengers are unable to speak because of the injuries they sustain, a minimal set of data is sent. in this way, the emergency services are informed of the existence of an accident and its location within a very short time. the lack of progress in voluntary implementation of the system based on the report " ecall: a new 112 service for citizens " is regrettable . i support the european commission's assessment that mandatory introduction is the only option to achieve positive results in this respect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on type-approval requirements for the installation of an ecall in-vehicle system. the installation of an ecall service on board all motor vehicles and in all member states has been one of the union's top priorities in the field of road safety since 2003. i would stress that there is still a need to improve the functioning of the 112 service across the union so that it can provide assistance in emergency situations in a timely and effective manner. i would stress the importance of the installation of a 112 ecall system on board vehicles as the union ecall system is expected to reduce the number of deaths as well as the severity of injuries caused by road accidents in the union by rapid alerting of the emergency services. the necessary and coordinated upgrade of the infrastructure of the electronic communications network for making ecalls and of the psaps for receiving ecalls would make the service available to all citizens and therefore contribute to reducing the number of deaths and severity of injuries, healthcare costs, traffic congestion caused by accidents and other costs.
i voted in favour of the report. one of the most important lessons of the crisis was the need to ensure consumer protection in all financial areas. the insurance sector is no exception, and the directive, as amended, should therefore promote fair competition and transparency. i also welcome the extension of its scope. consumer protection requires regulation of all sales of insurance products offered, whether by intermediaries or by businesses. moreover, these services and products must follow three main principles: focus on the customer's needs, provide long-term prospects and, most importantly, guarantee solvency. all this because mobility requires the strengthening of a genuine european internal market for insurance packages.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposals to amend the insurance intermediation directive and to open negotiations with the council of the european union to speed up their adoption. i voted against amendments nos 6 and 7, which reintroduced the practice of tied sales. i voted for amendment 9 which states that information on all costs and expenses, including costs and expenses associated with the intermediation service and the insurance product that are not caused by the materialization of the underlying market risk are aggregated to allow the client to understand what the overall cost is and the cumulative effect on the profitability of the investment and, upon the client's request, a detailed breakdown. where possible, this information shall be provided to the client on a regular basis, at least annually, for the duration of the investment. i also voted for the new definition of 'insurance-based investment products' so that they do not include general insurance products as set out in annex i to directive 2009/138/ec, life insurance contracts payable only on death or disability, pension products, occupational pension schemes or individual pension products where the employer or employee has no choice of pension product or provider.
i hold this report and i voted in favour of it. while we are talking about an exclusive competence of the member states, improving public health must be a priority at national and european level. i welcome the fact that the objectives of the programme also include the prevention of diseases at union level and support for solutions to cross-border health threats. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to a situation which, in my view, represents an imminent danger: more and more parents are refusing to vaccinate their children because of lack of information, possible adverse effects or religious reasons. we need serious education campaigns to do this, so that parents understand that vaccines are safe and, very often, vital.
in writing. - i welcome the establishment, through today's vote in the european parliament's plenary, of the 'health and economic growth for citizens' programme, the third multiannual eu action programme in the field of health for the period 2014-2020, as i believe that the health and well-being of european citizens is a sound investment in the future of the eu. a high level of health protection must be ensured in the definition and implementation of all union policies and activities. in this regard, the union should complement and support national health policies, encourage cooperation between member states and promote coordination between their programmes, while fully respecting the responsibilities of national authorities for the definition of their health policies and the organisation and delivery of health and medical care services. promoting good mental and physical health at eu level is an integral part of europe 2020: a european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. keeping a population healthy and active for longer and involving them to play an active role in managing their health, including by improving the health literacy of the population, will have overall positive health effects, including reducing health inequalities, and a positive impact on citizens' quality of life, productivity and competitiveness.
in writing. - the health for growth programme, with an overall financial allocation of eur 446 million for the period 2014-2020, is part of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to encourage innovation and sustainability in healthcare. potential candidates for funding will be national authorities, public and private bodies, international organisations and non-governmental organisations through co-financing. it is therefore essential that the procedures and access to these budgets are as simple as possible so that member states and professionals in the sector can make the best use of them to improve the well-being of european citizens.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the third health programme of the european union. i fully support the idea of complementarity between the european health programme - health for growth - and the opportunities for funding the health sector from the structural funds, as well as horizon 2020. i believe that the european commission should encourage the eastern european countries to apply for this funding, for example by organising an information campaign. i look forward to the results of the european health programme in developing strategies to combat chronic diseases. i'll give you the example of hepatitis, where solutions are urgently needed. unfortunately, hepatitis has a high prevalence in romania. romanian hepatitis patients receive neither screening nor adequate treatment, so the disease becomes chronic.
in writing. - i fully support the adoption of the new health programme and the improvements made to it by parliament. as some ngos pointed out, there was not enough reference to diet and physical activity in the original proposal, and we have added these important points and increased the focus on preventative health actions. emphasis on a small number of preventative actions will bring a broad range of health benefits at relatively little cost. i also welcome the specific mention of action on neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer’s, which will become more prevalent as the population ages.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing a 'health for growth' programme, the third multiannual eu programme of action in the field of health for the period 2014-2020. in accordance with article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), a high level of human health protection is to be ensured in the definition and implementation of all union policies and actions. the union is to complement and support national health policies, encourage cooperation between member states and promote coordination between their programmes, while fully respecting the responsibilities of the member states for the definition of their health policies and the organisation and delivery of health and medical care services. in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the programme should focus on a set of well-defined objectives and actions with clear and proven union added value and focus support on a smaller number of activities in the priority areas. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, emphasis should be placed on areas where there are clear cross-border or internal market problems or where significant benefits and efficiency gains can be derived from union cooperation.
i voted in favour of the report because in my country the field of information technology is a strategic sector, which also offers a competitive advantage. romania has long since achieved one of the most important goals of the digital agenda for europe in terms of internet connection speed. in this respect, it surpasses countries like the united states, germany, and japan. one of the explanations for our technological advantage in this area is the high quality of the internet access infrastructure, in a permissive administrative framework. romania can provide real support in exchange for good practices on digital services, especially as it has the largest number of certified it specialists in the european union and ranks 6th in the world in this area.
in writing. - one of the fundamental objectives, undertaken by the european union and european states alike through the europe 2020 strategy, is to increase interconnection between member states, in particular through the development of digital services infrastructure in the field of telecommunications. i support the adoption of this proposal for a regulation, as it has the potential to lead to increased institutional transparency of the european union, as well as to contribute to the creation of cross-border, digitally accessible public services in the field of public administration or healthcare.
in writing. - the objective of the european digital agenda is to connect all eu citizens to high-speed internet by 2020. facilitating access to high-speed networks contributes to strengthening the internal market and provides new development opportunities for regions. given the rapid evolution of telecommunications, i am convinced that new technologies will be able to provide broadband internet services of up to 1gpbs to at least half of the number of households by the targeted deadline of 2020. a key condition for the efficient functioning of publicly funded digital networks is that they are open to competition. the liberalisation of the telecommunications market contributes to an increase in the quality of the services provided and reasonable costs for users. digital networks represent a major opportunity to connect isolated and unpopulated regions. the networks shall support the implementation of digital inclusion using the existing funding and cooperation levers under the connecting europe facility. the interoperability of digital networks is essential in particular for cross-border transactions, and therefore digital central service platforms need to provide secure and high-quality services. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that improving broadband connectivity contributes to increasing the competitiveness of the european economy and to reducing the digital divide between regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on a set of guidelines for trans-european telecommunications networks and repealing decision no 1336/97/ec. the adopted regulation lays down guidelines for the timely development and interoperability of projects of common interest in the field of trans-european networks in the area of telecommunications infrastructure. the regulation provides for:the operational objectives and priorities of projects of common interest; the identification of projects of common interest; the criteria according to which actions contributing to projects of common interest are declared eligible for union financial assistance in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1316/2013 as regards their development, implementation, implementation, interconnection and interoperability; the priorities for the financing of projects of common interest. projects of common interest may cover their entire life cycle, including feasibility studies, implementation, operation and continuous upgrading, coordination and evaluation. they should also: aim at creating and/or strengthening core interoperable and, where possible, internationally compatible service platforms, accompanied by generic services for digital service infrastructures; provide efficient vehicles for investment in broadband networks, attract new categories of investors and project promoters and encourage the replicability of innovative projects and business models.
i voted in favour of this report because for many of us the internet is a necessity. the proof is that 62% of europeans use it daily. accessibility of websites is becoming increasingly important in the context of new possibilities to obtain information and services. studies show that less than 10% of websites are accessible to all categories of people, even though almost all member states have already adopted legislation or other measures to this effect. it is clear that different approaches to the matter create barriers in the internal market. therefore, harmonising national public sector measures at eu level will make browsing more efficient and lead to lower prices. the measure will benefit governments, businesses and citizens alike.
in writing. - transparency of public administration activities is increasingly important for the sharing of information useful to citizens. from my own experience, i can testify that there are still problems of communication between local public administrations and citizens. this problem causes a lack of information to the detriment of the public. the management of institutional websites must therefore be geared towards greater accessibility and not just a window for official communications. the more progress we make in this area, the closer we will be able to bring the institutions closer to the citizens.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or purchase of furniture, the purchase, hire or purchase of furniture, the purchase, hire or purchase of furniture, the purchase, hire or purchase of furniture, the purchase, hire or purchase of furniture, the purchase, hire or purchase of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the hire or hire of furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the interior, the furniture, the interior, the furniture, etc. the commission should also be able to use the information contained in the annual report on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, in particular by means of the annual report on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the commission, and in the annual report on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the commission. the directive complements european efforts to improve web accessibility, such as the european disability strategy 2010-2020, the digital agenda, or even the new directive on public procurement which refers to web accessibility. there are over 71[nbsp ]000 public bodies' websites, but less than 10% of the websites are accessible according to web accessibility standards. this statistic will most likely be improved by the application of the directive.
in writing. - according to the internet handbook published by the european commission, internet users may have problems using the web due to different types of disabilities or functional limitations. it is important to provide equal treatment through online access to information and services to all union citizens, including persons with disabilities. the commission estimates that the number of persons with disabilities in the union varies between 10-15% of the total population. these percentages demonstrate the need for harmonised technical provisions at union level to meet our responsibilities to all citizens. they also support the monitoring of the member states and the informing of the commission by the member states when they operate regular updates of the web content. only then can we achieve real transparency in this area.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. i voted for amendment no 74, which states that member states are to lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of national law adopted pursuant to this directive and take all necessary measures to ensure that the penalties are implemented. the penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. member states shall communicate those provisions to the commission and shall inform it without delay of any subsequent amendment affecting them. i also voted for amendment no 75 which provides that member states shall apply the measures referred to in article 3 (1) to any new content of the websites concerned within one year of the date of entry into force of this directive and to all existing content of the websites concerned within three years of the date of entry into force of this directive. i voted in favour of amendment no 73 which includes for the purpose of the directive and websites on network services (gas, heat, electricity and water), postal services, transport-related services, banking and basic insurance, primary, secondary, higher and adult education, compulsory and supplementary social security systems, health services, childcare services, cultural activities and tourist information.
in writing. - the global economic crisis has left a deep imprint on the european economy. we need to think about measures to ensure sustainable economic development, and two important areas in this regard are infrastructure and research and development. these areas require long-term investment policies, and one of the problems facing the european continent is precisely the lack of such funding. the eu needs a flexible financial framework to attract finance, as public investment by member states has declined while major international economic competitors such as the us and japan have kept it high. european economic systems need to re-open investors' appetite for long-term investment, while policy-makers need to steadily reduce the risks associated with it. for these reasons, i support the adoption of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because europe is facing the need for large-scale, long-term investment that is essential in supporting sustainable economic growth. this document addresses ways to promote the provision of long-term financing and to improve and diversify the financial intermediation system for long-term investment in europe. this is spending that strengthens the productive capacity of the economy, and it includes energy, transport and communications infrastructure, education, research and many other areas. in addition, investment is vital in the necessary rebalancing of the european economy and financial markets need to be able to support accelerating structural change.
in writing. - the european economy needs long-term investment to grow and to ease the strain on the labour market, which is badly affected by rising unemployment. the contraction in financial markets caused by the financial and sovereign debt crises has increased the eu's reliance on financing through the banking sector. under the fiscal consolidation policies for the successful management of the public debt, risk avoidance and, by implication, the reduction of the supply of financing, it has impeded the necessary investments in the economic recovery process. in this difficult context, i support proposals for urgently improving access to capital markets, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the effort to identify new sources of financing for enterprises, such as public offerings, government bond issues, the creation of new trading venues, adapted to specific needs, and better access to both private and venture capital.
in writing. - i welcome the rapporteur's proposal on the long-term financing of the european economy. it is important that long-term investment is in line with the needs of the real economy, so as to provide the necessary basis for the sustainability of european growth. long-term investments, which can be reflected in the europe 2020 strategy, can only have a positive impact on the european economy if they are coordinated at the territorial level and agreed with national, regional and local institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the long-term financing of the european economy, as i believe that long-term investment plays a key role in achieving the europe 2020 objectives. as a result of the economic and financial crisis, businesses have suffered, in particular smes, whose access to credit is limited. long-term investment is necessary to ensure growth, job creation and the survival of firms in difficulty. member states pursue a policy of fiscal consolidation, which is understandable in view of the public debt facing the union, but policies to encourage credit should not be neglected. access to adequate financing is essential for economic recovery and a return to the pre-crisis situation. it considers it necessary to improve access to capital markets, new sources of finance for smes and to reduce unnecessary legal and administrative provisions. only in this way can we create a favourable environment for the sustainable development of the european union's economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the long-term financing of the european economy. i voted in favour of paragraph 26 where parliament calls on the commission to examine and develop, in a future document, a harmonised approach to the long-term evaluation of public interest projects supported by public resources, at national and european level. i also voted in favour of paragraph 28, where parliament calls on the commission to look at ways of supporting member states that require financial and technical assistance to set up their long-term national and regional public investors and to assess the possibility of an eu guarantee mechanism for them. we invite member states, in collaboration with local and regional authorities, to review their budget planning tools and to develop and publish their own national infrastructure plans to provide investors and other stakeholders with detailed information and to allow them greater certainty and forward-looking planning in relation to future projects. we also invite the commission to support member states in developing a method for standardising infrastructure project data and making it available through a central repository of data.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the long-term financing of the european economy. long-term investment is essential for economic growth and the labour market. without them, key infrastructure, research, development and innovation projects cannot be successfully initiated or completed. the own-initiative report makes a number of proposals to reinvigorate the european economy, with a focus on developing and better implementing the current tools at the eu's disposal. the references to the sme sector, the small business act and cosme are extremely timely.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, regardless of the prostitution legislation of the member state we come from, our aim must be one. i am talking about mobilising the means and instruments needed to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. but we must not lose sight of the fact that the majority of people who engage in prostitution come from vulnerable groups. often these women are in a difficult situation, forced by circumstances or even forced into prostitution. the nordic model, which is being discussed today, seems to have proven its effectiveness as one of the few viable measures to reduce this phenomenon. however, i believe that it is for the member states to decide whether or not they wish to implement this model, taking into account national, cultural or religious specificities.
in writing. - the report is a very useful tool that proposes concrete measures to combat prostitution as a social phenomenon. prostitution and the sexual exploitation of women and girls are forms of violence and as such constitute obstacles to equality between women and men. i consider prostitution, even 'voluntary' prostitution, to be a form of violence against women. at the same time, prostitution is a major factor in organised crime, second only to drugs in scale, prevalence and the amounts involved. a growing number of women and girls are trafficked not only from outside the union but also from some member states to other regions of the european union. the eu must therefore take concrete measures to combat this specific form of violence against women. it is important that states work together to take concrete and appropriate measures to prosecute offenders while protecting victims, prostitutes and women and girls trafficked for sexual exploitation.
in writing. - the european union has taken a leading position in relation to the objectives of protecting the environment and combating climate change through its policies and its programming documents. at the same time, the european union is an association of states, built around common values and principles. in this context, i consider it of the utmost importance that the union addresses the issue of extractive industries in developing countries in a responsible manner. it is well known that, despite the abundance of resources, developing countries very often face manifest difficulties both in promoting transparent competitive practices and in the social efficiency of this economic process. the european union can act at this level both by promoting good practice in this field and by establishing measures to ensure that the involvement of european economic actors in the extractive industries of developing countries can produce welfare while protecting the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i too believe that although the less developed countries must close the economic gap with the developed countries, this cannot be done at any price. the extractive industry is a very important source of income for many poor countries. but in the rush to raise funds, basic environmental standards are being overlooked. and failure to do so can have long-term negative effects that ultimately affect the state as a whole. in this respect, the role of the private sector is particularly important, as it can promote high standards in the field.
in writing. - while the eu countries are increasing their efficiency in exploiting natural resources, developing countries are having serious difficulties in managing the effects generated. while this global demand for minerals and other natural resources presents a unique opportunity for the extractive sector to contribute to sustainable development, it also presents significant challenges for developing countries. a comprehensive strategy is therefore needed to address the root causes of mineral conflicts and to manage mining in the best possible way to limit deforestation, soil depletion, air pollution and global warming.
in writing. - global demand for minerals and other natural resources is at an unprecedented level, putting pressure on the mining sector in developing countries. the mining sector has the capacity to contribute to economic development, but it can have negative consequences on the environment and lead to major conflicts if not regulated. the main problems of mining include water contamination, deforestation and forced evictions, and the relocation of communities on natural resource deposits. developing country governments lack the bargaining power and expertise to ensure responsible practices in this area. i believe that transnational companies and their home countries must take social responsibility for their work in less developed countries. voluntary social initiatives do not have the desired positive consequences and a legislative approach is needed in this regard.
in writing. - i voted for the report on promoting development through responsible business practices. the report highlights that globally, the explosion in commodity prices, fuelled by demand from emerging economies, offers a great opportunity for resource-rich developing countries, particularly in africa, to increase their revenues and channel them into development for the benefit of their peoples. the european parliament underlines the eu's efforts to support wider institutional development and capacity building in host country governments, so as to establish the necessary institutional and legislative framework for the management and allocation of revenues from extractive industries in a transparent and efficient manner. we also underline the importance of the partnerships developed between the union and the african development bank and urge the eu to give priority to assistance for the development of legislation and fiscal policy so as to maximise the local and national benefits of the development of extractive industries, leading to the creation of local jobs, wages for employees and their families, as well as broader links between small and medium-sized enterprises and the supply chain associated with the development of extractive industries. finally, we encourage african countries to step up their efforts at regional integration so as to remove some of the intra-african barriers to mineral-based industrialisation.
madam president, in recent months we have been witnessing an optimistic tragedy in ukraine, whose last acts are still to be performed. ukraine currently has three main challenges to cope with, namely to avoid anarchy, to avoid economic bankruptcy and to avoid state partition. all other priorities, no matter how justified and legitimate, should be considered of secondary importance. a united, trustworthy state needs a united, stable society able to mobilise all its human resources in support of a truly all-nation agenda. therefore now is the time for reconciliation and inclusion and not for revenge and lustration. justice should be done in the courts and not on the streets. nobody respects romania, my country, for the way in which its former authoritarian leader was tried and executed. ukrainians should not repeat this mistake, which still burdens the conscience of my compatriots. an era of true justice cannot be started by acts of precipitate retaliation. ukraine needs help to overcome the threats it faces. if it fails, the eu security would be in jeopardy. to prevent that, the european union should firstly, together with the united states and others, offer ukraine a financial package for economic stabilisation and transformation. secondly, together with russia, it should agree on a true partnership, based on the harmonisation of their vital interests, including those related to their common neighbourhood, thus bringing to an end a geostrategic contest which has brought so many hardships not only to ukrainians, but also to belarusians, moldovans, azeris and georgians. thirdly, proclaim ukraine’s eligibility for eu membership at an appropriate time after due preparation. a final remark, if i may. with all due respect for german diplomacy, as a romanian european, i would feel better if decisive external actions on issues of common interest were to be pursued by our eu foreign minister and european institutions and not by national ministers from selected member states.
if we look to the west of the union, we see that one parliament, the icelandic one, is debating the withdrawal from the negotiations for joining the european union. if we look to the east of the union, we see that a parliament, this time the ukrainian one, is debating how to bring that country closer to europe, after ukrainian citizens have shown us for months that they are ready to die for the union. as the text of the resolution tabled by my political group underlines, one of the conditions imposed by the union for the signing of the association agreement with ukraine, namely the release of yulia tymoshenko, has been met. the other two conditions, namely that concerning the judiciary and that concerning the electoral system, must also be carefully followed. as the epp resolution says, i think we have to move on. ukraine faces important challenges and the association agreement may seem too narrow a prospect for this country. that is why i believe we must give ukraine, as well as another country in the east, moldova, a clear prospect of accession. this is because our enlargement policy must be tailored to our partners and therefore we must look both to the west and to the east.
mr president, for a romanian, the situation in ukraine is déjà vu. the same is true for the new authorities in kiev, who will have to manage the country as best they can, perhaps through a technocratic government at first while preparing the political process to get ukraine out of the current crisis and consolidating it afterwards. in doing so they should try to unite, not divide, the country, to keep the minorities in rather than out, and to filter justified revenge through judicial procedure, aware that a simple political condemnation is not always sufficient in court. equally the eu needs to be more pragmatic and less bureaucratic; flexible rather than rigid; fully aware that ukraine will test it to its limit and that failure would negatively affect the entire continent. although the association agreement is the bone of contention with russia, the eu should be aware that it is precisely the signing of that accord which would to a considerable extent characterise the eu’s actions as successful or not in the eyes of the international community.
in writing. the situation in ukraine is fast approaching the moment of reckoning. even so, the issues that generated the political crisis in kiev are far from resolved. the country's economic instability deepened during this period, and trade suffered. ukraine is emerging from the current crisis weakened in many ways, with hundreds of casualties, wounded and dead. i think that, especially in this context, the financial support promised to ukraine by the european union through the visit of mrs catherine ashton is more than welcome. there are still delicate moments when risky statements about the future of ukraine have no place. it is important that all parties involved, including international actors, respect ukraine's sovereignty and the right of its citizens to decide the future of their country. and the european union will have to find ways of responding even more effectively in the future to crises that, as has happened now, are occurring at its borders.
whether we like it or not, armed drones are a reality of today's defense landscape and that's why we can't remain indifferent. let me recall here a visit i made with several colleagues from the subcommittee on human rights to yemen two years ago. there, we discussed, among other things, the use of drones, and what was very interesting was that we found that among the members of our parliamentary delegation, we were not all in agreement, we did not have the same point of view on the issue of armed drones, the local authorities were also divided on this issue, and the ambassadors of some western countries did not have the same point of view. i say this to emphasize that there is actually no international consensus on this subject. what we know from a european perspective: we know that the massive use of this type of drone outside conflict zones can be considered incompatible with respect for human rights. we also know that - the polls show it, the surveys show it - european citizens are opposed to the use of armed drones to kill extremists outside of conflict zones. that is why i believe that we need to clarify the rules for the use of force outside conflict zones, we need to define very clearly the legitimate targets and also ask ourselves the question of the transparency of such operations and the political responsibility for them - cooperation with the united states in this context seems to me essential.
(microphone off) … in 2013 decided to support the development of rpas in the 2020-2025 time-frame. this product, like the internet for instance, was developed first for military use. it is now becoming a dual-use product, being increasingly employed for civilian purposes too. given the negative publicity related to their use for the elimination of specific human targets, we are now confronted with resistance to their use in general, which is understandable up to a point. i am saying up to a point, because one cannot deprive our maritime authorities, for instance, of a very efficient way of monitoring the water approaches of the continent in order to intervene in the event of potential catastrophe, thus saving lives. equally, one should be fully aware of the direction of future military special operations, which cannot be conceived without the intelligence and air-fire support provided by these drones. consequently, one should be realistic. once the genie is out of the bottle it cannot be put back, although its exploits can be restricted.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i strongly believe that we as the european union must set an example of how much human rights mean to us and how determined we are to protect them in our own home, europe. of course it is the duty of each national legal system to observe the rights and liberties provided for by the eu treaties and the charter. but we should be able to both monitor and sanction each and every member state if they fail to carry out their duty. this is why i firmly believe that we need an objective and effective mechanism aimed at monitoring compliance with the copenhagen criteria by every member state. so far, only the accession countries have been subjected to such scrutiny and, in addition, a cooperation and verification mechanism was set up only for romania and bulgaria. when a majority of member states has the power of verification on just two countries, such a mechanism becomes a political weapon. this was crystal clear on at least two occasions: firstly, when the eu decided not to use the tools provided for by the treaty for a wide scrutiny on hungary; secondly, when some member states invoked such scrutiny to deny romania’s and bulgaria’s rightful claim to enter the schengen area. it is high time we ended the double standards when it comes to judging how well one member state upholds the rights enshrined in the treaty, or how well their justice system works. we are a union, and we should share the same rights and have the same penalties applied if we break the rule of law.
i sincerely welcome the report by my colleague, mr luis michel, which finally says what i have been working for all my life in the european parliament. a comprehensive protection system at union level is needed for traditional national minorities, regional language groups and autonomous regions, accompanied by a functioning monitoring mechanism. the report also highlights the fact that the protection of national minorities cannot be achieved simply by fighting xenophobia and discrimination, but must be achieved through the application of specific legal, linguistic, cultural and social systems and procedures. i would like to emphasize that the text also refers to what the members of the community i represent know exactly. in their daily lives, members of these minority communities face obstacles in the areas of justice, health and social care, education and culture, which undermine their rights and dignity as citizens of the european union, leading to situations in which they are treated as second-class citizens by the national authorities of their own member state. i believe that the adoption of this report is a milestone, as parliament calls on the commission to establish a policy norm for the protection of national minorities, including indigenous, traditional national and linguistic minority communities, given that they represent more than 10% of the total population of the union. this avoids the double standard that distinguishes between candidate countries and member states. the report also makes an important request to the member states. it calls on the 28 member states to take measures to promote effective equality and to provide comprehensive data on cases of violations of the fundamental rights of national minorities. by adopting this report, the european parliament is doing nothing more than its role as defined in the treaties: it is representing the interests of european citizens.
it would have been desirable to have had a mechanism to monitor compliance with the copenhagen criteria in the summer of 2012, when the socialist alliance staged a coup in romania. this is particularly necessary in countries where political power is violating the rule of law for petty, often hidden and immoral interests. what happened in romania shows us that democracy is not an irreversible concept. of course, the risk of slippage is associated particularly with the new member states, but we have to be honest that the old member states are not safe either, and this is demonstrated by the general anti-corruption report. i hope that the message that the european parliament is sending tonight will be received by the socialist majority in bucharest. they must understand that the european path depends on respect for the rule of law. repeated violations of the copenhagen criteria could lead to sanctions against romania, especially with regard to european funds. prime minister victor ponta and his people, abandoned last night by the liberals who were still cleaning their image in the world, must realize that the union will not hesitate to sanction us if they continue to violate the constitution, protect the corrupt and parasitize the institutions of the state.
although european citizenship confers a number of fundamental rights on the inhabitants of the union, we find that there are breaches of democracy, the rule of law and citizens' rights. i support the importance of sanctioning all these excesses, whether we're talking about new or old eu members. in some countries, for example, citizens' rights to freedom of movement and residence are violated, along with the fundamental right to work. this is a worrying fact, which also affects citizens in my country, romania, and is contrary to fundamental rights and union law, and this without the eu immediately sanctioning discriminatory practices. i conclude by expressing my concern about another community, often stigmatised on the basis of ethnic stereotypes in countries with a long democratic tradition: roma communities in europe are being forcibly evicted and relocated without being offered a viable alternative, while we all publicly declare our support for the integration of this population.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the debate shows that we have triggered a process of awareness-raising about fundamental rights across the eu. this awareness has led to a tangible improvement in the fundamental rights situation in many of our member states. but as the rapporteur and the speakers have rightly pointed out, work remains to be done. the commission is doing its part of the work on a number of projects to guarantee respect for fundamental rights. very soon we will receive the 2013 report on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights and, as i told you in my introduction, after the debate the college had yesterday on a rule of law mechanism, we will also present a proposal concerning this problem.
in writing. i rarely disagree with my political group, but today i did. i supported the louis michel report and in particular the proposals to establish a mechanism against member states that do not respect the eu's fundamental rights and values as set out in article 2 of the treaty of accession (the new copenhagen mechanism). the report provides clear guidance on the parameters that should define this mechanism, including that it should be based on uniform and objective criteria for assessing the human rights situation and the rule of law in the member states. the text also proposes the introduction of effective and proportionate sanctions, including temporary suspension of funding, in the event of a breach of the union's fundamental values and rights. as the events in romania in the summer of 2012 and more recently the attempts to amend the criminal code have shown, such a mechanism is necessary because the possibility of breaches of fundamental rights and the rule of law is not excluded. it is also a very clear signal to the socialist majority in bucharest that europe will not sit idly by if these abuses are repeated. we are members of the union and i think it's finally time to behave as such.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the reasons people started what have become the largest protests in venezuela are simple: loss of freedom, a total lack of government ability and interest to protect the citizens, and a shortage of basic food. instead of looking after the needs of its people, the government decided to retaliate, and to date this has resulted in 13 people dead, more than 70 injured and hundreds detained. the alde group strongly condemns the acts of violence that led to so many deaths and so much pain. at the same time we are deeply worried about the government’s transparent strategy to take advantage of the current situation and send members of the opposition to prison, along with civil society leaders, students and journalists. it is time that the venezuelan government took responsibility for its own huge mistakes and acted accordingly. considering everybody else to be guilty is no longer working, and this is why people are on the streets. we urge both the government and the opposition to turn to peaceful dialogue and to try to find a middle ground for the sake of their people. at the same time, as the media rapporteur for this parliament, i am also very concerned about reports on media and web censorship, as well as limited access to blogs and social networks. according to the national press workers’ union, more than 60 media workers have been the victims of abuse committed either by the police forces, the national guard, or ad-hoc armed groups of protesters. it is the government’s duty to bring such practices to an end, to investigate and sanction. i would remind president maduro and the venezuelan government that ensuring a free and independent media and a functioning political opposition are fundamental for a country that wants to be called democratic.
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission welcomes this opportunity to discuss visa policy with parliament. the commission will adopt the ‘visa code package’ on 19[nbsp ]march. i know that the resolution by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs suggests that the commission should have presented the evaluation report and only later submitted a proposal amending the visa code. this would, however, have meant a delay in tackling issues on which urgent action is required to facilitate travel for legitimate travellers. in light of the positive economic impact of visa policy on the wider european union economy, and in particular on tourism, we felt that it was important to move on to firm proposals immediately. we have drawn upon the results of a public consultation organised in spring last year, a study on the economic impact of short-stay visa facilitations, and, not least, on an impact assessment. all of these inputs will be made public next month. we included this package in our 2013 work programme and regret that its adoption has been slightly delayed. we needed extra time as the package now contains two legislative proposals, and more time was needed to ensure that the proposals are balanced and comprehensive. it is important to remember that the primary objective of the common visa policy is to prevent irregular migration and safeguard public order and security, as a corollary to the schengen area without internal borders. so the commission has sought to strike a balance in its forthcoming proposal between those objectives and the need to facilitate travel for legitimate travellers. the proposal is based around the objective of easing the administrative burden for both applicants and consulates. we plan to do this by fully exploiting the benefits of the visa information system and differentiating between the treatment of known or regular travellers and unknown, first-time applicants on the basis of clear, objective criteria. additionally, we propose that provisions on the harmonisation of practices and procedures carried out in local schengen cooperation be strengthened. the second legislative proposal in the visa package concerns a new type of visa – a ‘touring visa’. it would be used for an intended stay in the territory of two or more member states of up to one year, with the possibility of extension for an additional year. this type of visa is sought by many third-country nationals, be they tourists, performers, researchers or others with a legitimate interest in, and need for, travelling in the schengen area for more than 90[nbsp ]days in a given 180-day period without being considered as ‘immigrants’. and now let me briefly mention the ‘visa lists’. the amendment, related to the regular review of the visa that you are adopting this week, will allow visa-free travel for nationals of 19 third countries, most of them small island nations in the caribbean and pacific regions, as well as the united arab emirates, peru and colombia. this relatively long list of new visa-free countries shows the willingness of the eu to strengthen links with countries in different parts of the world, and contradicts those who say the eu is making it increasingly difficult for people to travel to the schengen area. the commission is satisfied that the final compromise, in addition to transferring 19 countries to the visa-free list, also gives more prominence to the criteria used in assessing the visa status of third countries, by transferring these criteria into the body of the legal text. at the same time, we have reviewed the list of criteria and we have added new ones, namely economic impact and human rights considerations. this will help to make the common visa policy more coherent with other areas of the eu’s action. just last month another amendment entered into force, establishing a new suspension mechanism that aims to ensure that visa-free travel with third countries is not abused. the mechanism allows, under strict conditions and after thorough assessment by the commission, for the temporary reintroduction of visa requirements for citizens of a visa-free third country when there is an emergency situation caused by abuse of the visa-free regime by nationals of these countries. the commission hopes, as does parliament, that member states will seek to use the mechanism responsibly and only when all relevant criteria are fulfilled. and it must be clear that there is no automatism: a request to trigger the mechanism will not automatically lead to the suspension of the visa-free regime. that same amendment revised the reciprocity mechanism. the commission could not agree with the legal form given to that mechanism. we hope nevertheless that it will put more pressure on some of our partners to abolish visa requirements for eu citizens. we have seen a positive development recently with canada abolishing the visa requirement for czech citizens. finally, the other amendment offering the holders of moldovan biometric passports visa-free travel to the eu is a fulfilment of the eu’s commitment made in the visa dialogue with the republic of moldova. now that the latter has fulfilled its commitments, it meets all the benchmarks set out in the action plan for visa liberalisation.
on behalf of the epp group. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues, the members of the european parliament, for the support they have given so far to resolve this issue - visa liberalisation for the republic of moldova. i also thank the council and the commission, in particular commissioner stefan füle, for their efforts and the speed with which they have dealt with this matter. citizens of the republic of moldova deserve to travel visa-free to the european union. the reports drawn up by the evaluation committee showed that the republic of moldova has fulfilled its commitments, in some cases even exceeding them. the moldovan authorities, the citizens have made great efforts. the pro-european coalition in chisinau deserves all the credit, i think, for having withstood very strong pressures, both from within and from without. today's vote will show that the union is delivering on its commitments to the extent of the partners' efforts. moldova becomes the first country in the eastern neighbourhood to benefit from this visa liberalisation facility. the epp group supports the european path of the republic of moldova. but it is important to ensure that moldova remains committed to the european path. the european union must be involved in clarifying the situation in transnistria. the current format, 5+2, has not brought the expected results. i think that formula needs to be reconsidered and i think that the union should be given a very important role. i think the outside pressures have to stop. i think that the russian federation should withdraw its last troops from transnistria, thus leaving moldova and the citizens of moldova to decide for themselves which path they want to take. i once again congratulate moldova on meeting its obligations and on its attachment to the european family.
the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of the republic of moldova is of major significance in the context of developments in ukraine. the european union is now sending a strong signal to its eastern neighbour. the european commission's proposal to move the republic of moldova from the negative to the positive visa list recognises the progress made by the chisinau authorities over the last three and a half years. the republic of moldova is the first eastern partnership country to fulfil all the conditions for visa liberalisation. after the initialling of the association agreement, moldovan citizens will soon enjoy the benefits of a fundamental right of the european project: free movement. in the new geopolitical context that is being defined, a common, coherent and fair visa policy is becoming imperative, and this means, first of all, the integration of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area, in order to put an end to an unfair and frustrating division within the union. i believe that the concern for the harmonization of visa policy must also be directed towards the application of the principle of reciprocity in relations with third countries which maintain the visa requirement for some member states of the union, and i am referring in particular to the usa and canada, cases in which we are faced with the risk of making the current deadlock permanent. i welcome the commission's commitment to promoting the dialogue on a mutually beneficial visa regime and i continue to encourage it to take a bolder and more firm approach.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr[nbsp ] president, eu visa policy is a concrete result of the partnerships we are building and the mutual commitments we are making with third countries. that is why a united european union should take care of all of its citizens and should act with solidarity each and every time that citizens of a specific member state are discriminated against by third countries through the application of different visa regimes. at the same time, it is important that we keep our promises regarding the countries to which we have a commitment. one such country is the republic of moldova. during the past month, moldova has been exposed to a lot of pressure and has been increasingly penalised, by russia in particular. these actions have been intended to increase tensions in moldovan society, to affect the country’s economy and to deter it from its commitment to european integration. nevertheless, the government and the moldovan people have not reduced their efforts to promote european values. their determination to implement tough and difficult reforms has remained high and they have made a clear choice for european integration. granting moldovan citizens a visa-free regime is simply normal, proving that we are indeed committed to closer ties with their country. let us prove that we are more than a europe of words and promises: that we are a europe of action.
today is a historic moment for the citizens of the republic of moldova and for the european parliament. in a very short time, in about 2 hours, we will vote for visa liberalization for citizens of the republic of moldova to travel freely within the european union. this is a reward for the efforts of both the citizens of the republic of moldova and the pro-european governments since 2009, who with great determination, will and effort have made the necessary reforms to get here. of course, the reforms will continue. the liberalisation of visas for citizens of the republic of moldova is a mutual benefit both for the citizens of the republic of moldova, who will come into direct contact with european values, with the rules of democracy, with the values of democracy, and for us, those of the european union, who will know them directly and will establish ties of inter-human friendship, as happens whenever we travel freely in the member states. i am very happy that citizens of the republic of moldova will very soon be able to travel freely in the european union, we welcome them and i say, finally: welcome to the european union! we're waiting for you with open hearts!
i welcome the proposal for a regulation to remove the republic of moldova from the list of countries whose nationals must obtain visas for travel within the european union. the abolition of visa requirements sends a clear message to moldova in the sense of a european perspective, gradual economic integration and strengthened trade relations. let us not forget that moldova is the first eastern partnership country to initial the association agreement with the eu, fulfilling all the requirements of the visa liberalisation action plan. although the prospects are uncertain, this visa policy offers a chance to solve the transnistrian problem peacefully, taking into account the benefits of citizens holding biometric passports. moreover, freedom of movement, one of the eu's fundamental principles, will target a significant number of romanian citizens, who currently hold dual citizenship and reside in the republic of moldova, outside the eu area. congratulations to all who have ensured this success!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation because it is a major development towards a genuine single market for european consumers. the emergence of a common contract law system will encourage european citizens to buy more from other countries. they will thus be able to choose the best offers with the guarantee that their rights are uniformly protected throughout the union. and for merchants, the passage of this act is good news. they are currently discouraged from entering into cross-border transactions due to differences in the laws of the member states. their losses are in the tens of billions of euros a year, with only 10% of european businesses doing cross-border business.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common european sales law is intended to be an essential pillar of the future european contract law. the initiative i support is designed to solve the difficulties created in the internal market by the differences between national rules on contract law. the proposed text is the result of parliament's cooperation with the institute of european law and marks a significant step in the process of drawing up the community legal framework. distance selling is particularly targeted, especially the online sales sector, which is developing very rapidly in relation to the legal rules in force at eu level. i voted in favour of the report, particularly because it provides for a system of remedies available to consumers and a restructuring of the rules on the return of purchased goods.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the common european sales legislation. contract law barriers prevent consumers and traders from exploiting the full potential of the internal market and are of particular importance in the field of distance selling, which should be one of the tangible results of the internal market. in particular, the digital dimension of the internal market is becoming essential for both consumers and traders, as consumers increasingly shop online and the number of traders selling online is also increasing. given that the means of communication and information technology are constantly developing and becoming more accessible, the growth potential of internet sales is very high. in view of this situation and in order to overcome such obstacles created by contract law, the parties should be able to agree on a single set of contractual rules governing distance contracts, and in particular online contracts, which they conclude, which have a uniform meaning and interpretation in all member states, namely a common european law on sales.
in writing. - the consumption of tobacco products is one of the biggest public health challenges in romania and the european union. with 75% of smokers starting before the age of 18, the attraction of young people to tobacco products is growing. given these alarming statistics, the main objective of the compromise reached is to discourage smoking among children and adolescents, precisely to reduce tobacco consumption in the medium and long term. i believe that the new measures will help to reduce the number of smokers. regulations requiring that 65% of the surface of a cigarette pack be covered by visual health warnings, or establishing a positive list of additives and banning flavourings such as vanilla or chocolate, are measures that will discourage young people from starting to smoke. i voted for this compromise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, as a young mother, i really understand the risks we are exposing our children to when it comes to smoking. in addition to the negative example of adults, there is the problem of the effects of passive smoking, which is often as harmful as active smoking. they also draw attention to smoking during pregnancy, which can lead to very serious complications, thus endangering the life of the fetus or even the mother. whether we're talking about preterm births or even birth defects, my conclusion is that warning messages alone are not enough. i think that media campaigns would be more useful which could be financed by the excise taxes that cigarette manufacturers pay to the states.
in writing. - smoking remains the leading preventable cause of death in the eu, killing around 700 000 people a year. the incidence of smoking among young people (15-25 years) is currently 29%, higher than the overall population. 70% of smokers start before the age of 18, and many do so at an even younger age. i welcome and absolutely need new measures to discourage young people from smoking, such as stronger health warnings and the banning of packaging and flavours that may be particularly attractive to young people. tobacco products are not ordinary products and, given the particularly harmful effects of tobacco, health protection should be of high importance, in particular to reduce the prevalence of smoking among young people. to this end, member states should carry out more tobacco prevention campaigns, in particular in schools and through the media. i also welcome the measures to strengthen counterfeiting security to combat illicit trade in tobacco and tobacco products, in particular along the union's external borders.
in writing. - the revision of this legislation was necessary to discourage smoking, and particularly its attractiveness among young people, thus supporting the overall objectives of our public health policies. i believe that some pragmatic solutions have been found with regard to health warnings, flavourings and marketing of slim cigarettes. although we should not mislead consumers, since cigarettes are just as harmful if they have different flavours or sizes, i do not think we should go too far. so keeping products that mimic cigarettes, for example, on the market is a good thing. the reason i abstained in the final vote is related to the provisions relating to electronic cigarettes. the compromise text is better than the implementation of the pharmaceutical legislation proposed by the commission, but it is still not ideal. it's been shown that e-cigarettes have lowered sales of regular cigarettes, the former being less harmful. i therefore consider it illogical to discourage these products, inter alia, by setting a level for the nicotine content. i preferred to abstain because the text as a whole brings significant improvements and i do not think the ep should have rejected it just because of the devices related to electronic cigarettes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. directive 2001/37/ec lays down union-wide rules on tobacco products. in order to reflect scientific progress as well as developments in the market and the international context, substantial amendments to that directive would be necessary and it should be repealed and replaced by a new directive. it is necessary to lay down a number of new definitions in order to ensure uniform implementation of this directive by the member states. where different obligations imposed by this directive apply to different product categories and the relevant products fall within more than one of those categories, the most stringent obligations should apply. member states shall require manufacturers and importers of plant products for smoking to submit to their competent authorities a list of all ingredients and the corresponding quantities used in the manufacture of such products, by brand name and by type. manufacturers or importers shall also inform the competent authorities of the member states concerned if the composition of a product is changed in such a way as to affect the information provided under this article.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on sexual exploitation and prostitution and their impact on gender equality. i voted for amendment 2 whereby parliament recognises that prostitution, forced prostitution and sexual exploitation are highly gender-specific issues and violations of human dignity, contrary to the principles of human rights, including gender equality, and therefore contrary to the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, including the purpose and principle of gender equality. i voted for amendment no 3, which stresses the obligation to respect the right to health of all women, including the right to their bodies and sexuality, without coercion, discrimination and violence. i voted for paragraph 18 which stresses that child prostitution can never be voluntary, children having no capacity to 'give consent' to the practice of prostitution. parliament urged member states to combat child prostitution (involving persons under 18) as vigorously as possible, as it is the most serious form of forced prostitution and urgently calls for zero tolerance, based on prevention, protection of victims and punishment of clients. parliament drew the attention of the member states to the important role of education in preventing prostitution and the organised crime associated with it and recommended the organisation of special educational, awareness-raising and prevention campaigns.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i support strengthening solvit. in addition to solving citizens' problems informally, without bureaucratic procedures, this network has the advantage of being free of charge. the major drawback is that neither the commission nor the member states are making sufficient efforts to increase the visibility of solvit. we're talking about only 1,300 cases in the last year. i think there are actually many more european citizens who have problems with the application of european law in other member states. whether it is the recognition of diplomas or access to health services in other member states, solvit has proven its usefulness. i therefore call on the commission and the governments of the union to launch public awareness campaigns on the role and benefits of solvit as soon as possible.
in writing. - the solvit network has proved to be very useful and effective in solving problems faced by eu citizens and businesses due to non-compliance with european law, free of charge and quickly. therefore, this network should be further developed and promoted. many european businesses, and in particular smes, for whom the network would be most useful, are not aware of solvit. both the european institutions and national authorities should be more involved in promotion activities because solvit could substantially reduce the administrative costs faced by smes in the single market. however, i agree with the european commission's approach of promoting the 'europe of the people' portal as a single point where citizens and businesses can find information on the various practical aspects of the eu, and that it should also link solvit to those who need its services. the report raises the issue of funding again. in order to ensure that solvit is not a victim of its own success, it will need resources commensurate with its competences. better funding could also perhaps solve, at least in part, the problem of training staff to deal with the more complex cases faced by businesses.
in writing. - union citizens must be informed of their rights within the single market and of the options available to them if they are faced with unfair decisions or discriminatory administrative formalities in a member state other than their own. if a public authority in another member state fails to comply with european legislation, solvit is there to help citizens and businesses who face obstacles. according to a study presented by the european commission, since it became operational in 2002, more than 2000 cases have been solved by the solvit online network to date. approximately 70 cases are reported each month at union level. of these, 4 out of 5 are resolved within approximately 60 days. these statistics demonstrate the importance of the solvit platform in ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market mechanism. i support the commission's proposal to implement new concrete measures to increase the efficiency of the solvit network.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on solvit. we welcome the commission's efforts to improve the work of the solvit network in the resolution of cross-border disputes relating to the internal market. solvit plays an important role as a key problem-solving tool and therefore as a means of ensuring a higher level of compliance with union law in relation to the single market. we believe that the potential of the single market can only be realised if businesses and citizens are aware of the rights and opportunities that are available to them and are able to put them into practice effectively. they argue that these objectives can only be achieved if member states ensure the effective implementation of single market legislation and if good quality information and effective problem-solving mechanisms are made available. we call for the visibility of the solvit network to be increased and the level of public information about it to be increased, and for the service to be brought closer to citizens who are unaware of the existence of the network. we invite the member states and the commission to ensure equal access to solvit centres and online portals, for example for people with disabilities or the elderly, and to develop all possible options to establish contacts between users and solvit centres in this context.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the directive is a very important step towards creating a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice. cooperation in criminal matters, from the very beginning of the investigation phase, will be able to speed up proceedings and ensure that verdicts are delivered on the basis of all available evidence. this will help both the investigated and the investigating authorities. in addition, cooperation on interception of calls could strengthen the fight against cross-border organised crime or even terrorism. the possibility of video or telephone interviews will also facilitate the procedures. however, i would like to see the european investigation order not abused, especially as the executing state will bear the costs of the investigations.
in writing. - one of the objectives of the european integration process is precisely to promote the free movement of persons, while guaranteeing their security, by creating an area of freedom, security and justice. the importance of the european criminal space is a priority in the european integration process, given the gradual emancipation of traditional cooperation mechanisms. after promoting judicial and police cooperation as a compensatory measure for the disappearance of internal borders, the european union is now going further, beyond interstate cooperation, with a view to gradually building a homogeneous criminal area. progress in this area should be based on the following principles: mutual recognition, coordination of investigations and protection of fundamental rights in criminal cases, thus respecting the measures defined in article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the complementary link between mutual recognition and harmonisation is thus reaffirmed, with the emphasis that mutual recognition cannot be achieved without harmonisation. member states should provide, in the application of this directive, for transparent policies regarding the processing of personal data and the exercise of the right of the data subject to have recourse to legal remedies for the protection of his or her personal data.
in writing. - i support the creation of a european criminal area and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the european investigation order is one of the most effective tools to facilitate the exchange of information, the collection and transmission of evidence in criminal matters between member states. according to eurostat, the number of union citizens serving a custodial sentence increased from 29 832 in 2006 to over 638 000 in 2010. this increased crime rate demonstrates the need to create appropriate procedures and tools for the functioning of the single european area of freedom, security and justice. the european investigation order will help to administer relevant and conclusive evidence in criminal cases, which will lead to a better administration of justice. this cooperation between member states on the taking of evidence will also lead to a quicker trial of cases within a reasonable time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft directive on the european investigation order in criminal matters. the european investigation order is a judicial decision issued or validated by a judicial authority of a member state to implement one or more specific investigative measures in another member state for the purpose of obtaining evidence in accordance with this directive. the european investigation order may also be issued for the purpose of obtaining evidence already in the possession of the competent authorities of the executing state. the issuing of a european investigation order may be requested by a suspect or accused person, or by a lawyer on his or her behalf, within the framework of the rights of defence applicable in accordance with domestic criminal procedure. this directive does not have the effect of modifying the obligation to respect fundamental rights and legal principles as enshrined in article 6 of the treaty on european union, including the right of defence of persons subject to criminal proceedings, and is without prejudice to the obligations of judicial authorities in this regard.
citizens of the republic of moldova were deprived of freedom of expression, association and movement during the soviet period. the former soviet empire installed a barbed wire fence along the entire western border, and my colleagues in the baltic countries certainly remember this. in 2009, after a long communist rule, the pro-european coalition in chisinau, then led by mr vlad filat, removed hundreds of kilometres of barbed wire, demonstrating its unreserved commitment to european integration. today, we are voting in response to the symbolic gesture of removing the barbed wire, allowing the citizens of the republic of moldova to move freely within the european union. by this step we bring the romanians back from across the prut into the great european family.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to amend the annexes to regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. the commission proposal to exempt the citizens of the republic of moldova from the visa requirement is based on the considerable progress made by that country in the last three and a half years of the visa liberalisation dialogue. at the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november 2013, the republic of moldova initialled the association agreement with the eu and became the first eastern partnership country to fulfil all the requirements of the visa liberalisation action plan allowing for the implementation of visa liberalisation. the significance of visa liberalisation for ordinary people is considerable as it brings concrete benefits to the citizens of the republic of moldova, many of whom already hold a romanian passport. despite moldova's geopolitical location, internal difficulties, and recent developments in its neighbourhood, the eu remains a compelling alternative for the republic of moldova. on the other hand, the eu has a major opportunity to send a strong political signal to the republic of moldova and help transform the lives of millions of people.
in writing. - i would like to welcome the vote on lifting the visa requirement for citizens of the republic of moldova travelling to eu member states. it is the best proof that our neighbourhood policy for the countries of the east is producing concrete and positive effects. the granting of this vote would not have been possible in the absence of significant progress by the republic of moldova in meeting the relevant political conditions. recent reforms have enabled the republic of moldova to sign the association agreement with the european union, which offers a stable and long-term perspective for bilateral relations. romania has a vital interest in the completion of this process, within a reasonable time horizon, through the accession of the republic of moldova to the eu, and will do what is necessary for the success of this process. i congratulate all those who have made these positive developments in the republic of moldova possible and wish them success!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the modification of the regulation on the list of third countries whose citizens are exempted from the visa requirement for the eu. the transfer of the republic of moldova to the positive list on the main eu regulation on visa policy is a great step for this friend and neighbour country on its path towards european integration, and as such it should be welcomed. in recent years, the republic of moldova has successfully completed important reforms in the area of the rule of law and accomplished major successes, such as its reform of the ministry of the interior. it has also continued good work in the area of police and judicial cooperation with the eu and now meets all the benchmarks set in the visa liberalisation action plan. visa liberalisation between moldova and the eu is a great accomplishment which will greatly benefit both eu and moldovan citizens. it represents an added value for the progressing of both the eu’s and the republic of moldova’s social, cultural and economic development, it will bring tangible benefits for moldovan citizens, and it should help strengthen the dynamism of the region, to which we should all look forward.
in writing. - i have been and will continue to be among the supporters of the republic of moldova's accession to the european union. moldova has made significant progress in recent years and has fulfilled the commitments it made under the visa liberalisation action plan. the abolition of visas for moldovan citizens wishing to travel to the schengen area is therefore welcome and i am glad that i had the opportunity to support such a move. especially in the context of the recent events in ukraine and after the initialling of the eu-moldova association agreement, despite pressure from russia, i believe that such a signal of encouragement to the moldovans was needed. however, beyond the positive political signal sent to the republic of moldova, i believe that the positive effects of this decision will be felt most by the citizens of this country, who will no longer have to stand in queues at consulates or bear the costs of visa procedures. i strongly believe that facilitating travel to the eu will encourage the rapprochement of moldovans with the eu, including on a human and cultural level, which can only positively influence future eu-moldova cooperation.
in writing. - i voted with great interest in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 539/2011 to lift the schengen visa requirement for moldovan citizens holding biometric passports. it is a historic step, which is part of the process of the european union's rapprochement with the republic of moldova. it is commendable that moldova is the first eastern partnership country to have fulfilled all the requirements of the visa liberalisation action plan. i also welcome the pro-european efforts of the republic of moldova. in recent years, the chisinau authorities have made efforts to reform and strengthen institutions and have initialled the association agreement with the european union. i look forward to the swift entry into force of visa liberalisation and the entry into force of the association agreement.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption by the european parliament plenary of the proposal to liberalize visas for citizens of the republic of moldova when travelling to the member states of the european union. the measure has the political value of a symbolic reunification of the romanians on both banks of the prut, who will find themselves, we hope, soon, as partners in the european union. i am confident that the authorities in chisinau will sign the eu association agreement by the end of august, as moldova's european path is one without return at this point.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from this requirement. in accordance with the joint declaration adopted at the prague eastern partnership summit on 7 may 2009 and with the completion by the republic of moldova of the visa liberalisation action plan, the commission considers that the republic of moldova has met all the benchmarks set out in the visa liberalisation action plan. given that it meets all the benchmarks, the republic of moldova should be exempted from the visa requirement. this exemption should apply to holders of biometric passports issued by the republic of moldova in accordance with the standards of the international civil aviation organisation (icao). as regards bulgaria and romania, this regulation constitutes an act building upon, or otherwise relating to, the schengen acquis within the meaning of article 4 (1) of the 2005 act of accession.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the visa regime for third-country nationals on the commission's proposal to exempt citizens of the republic of moldova from visas, based on the considerable progress made by this country in the last three and a half years of the visa liberalisation dialogue. in recent years, the republic of moldova has made extraordinary efforts to implement difficult reforms, and i believe that the significance of visa liberalisation for moldovan citizens is considerable. the eu remains a compelling alternative for the republic of moldova. the visa liberalisation sends a strong political signal from the eu to the republic of moldova that it is willing to make a real contribution to transforming the lives of its citizens. i welcome the adoption of this report by the european parliament's plenary and hope that it will come into force before the european elections in may.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because i support the conclusion of this agreement. there are several reasons. firstly, i believe that we should apply the same standards to our relations with third countries as if we were in the european union. whether it is the environment or human rights, we have a duty to export european values to the world. and environmental protection must be a concern both in the union and in other countries, because ultimately the effects will be felt on us too. in this regard, cooperation between the indonesian and european authorities will be very important in ensuring compliance with the provisions of the agreement. i therefore call on the european commission to ensure that the current shortcomings of the indonesian authorities are remedied.
in writing. - the debate about climate change often focuses on emission reduction – this week we have voted on a co2 reduction from cars, and last part-session we voted on emission reduction targets for 2030. with all this focus on emission reduction at source, not enough attention is being paid to the importance of protecting natural carbon sinks. providing both mitigation of climate change through co2 absorption, and adaptation by protecting against flooding, natural carbon sinks such as forests and wetlands are vitally important in the fight against climate change. i very much welcome the progress which has been made in terms of protecting indonesia’s rainforest – the third largest in the world – and this evidence that our trade agreements can encourage environmental protection in third countries.
in writing. - i voted the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber products entering the european union, approving the conclusion of the agreement. the council has submitted the application for approval in accordance with the first subparagraph of article 207 (3), the first subparagraph of article 207 (4), the first subparagraph of article 218 (6), the second subparagraph of point (a) and point (v) and article 218 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the committee on international trade recommended the conclusion of the report and the committee on development gave a favourable opinion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it authorises croatia and cyprus, under a transitional regime, to unilaterally recognise visas issued to citizens of kosovo. however, the imposition of additional unjustified administrative burdens should be avoided. in this regard, a set of common rules authorising those countries to recognise unilaterally certain documents issued by member states as equivalent to their national visas could be useful.
in writing. - i support the introduction of a simplified system of checks on persons at the external borders. croatia and cyprus are to recognise certain documents issued by schengen member states as equivalent to national visas and to allow third-country nationals to transit through or stay for a maximum period of 90 days. according to the international organization for migration, in 2013, the number of immigrants in croatia was 17.6% of the total population. a similar situation exists in cyprus, where the number of immigrants represents 18.2% of the total population. those member states should apply the simplified technical conditions for migrants. i support the inclusion in the report of provisions that also include romania and bulgaria in the category of schengen member states that can issue these documents. although we are not yet officially members of the schengen area, we have implemented the schengen acquis and we should be included in the category of states issuing these national visa-like documents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision introducing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders, based on the unilateral recognition by croatia and cyprus of certain documents as equivalent to their national visas for transit through or intended stay in their territories for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period, and repealing decisions no 895/2006/ec and no 582/2008/ec. the objective of this decision is to introduce a regime of unilateral recognition by bulgaria, croatia, cyprus and romania of certain documents issued by other states. this objective cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore be better achieved at union level. the union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, this decision does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. the simplified regime established by this decision should apply for a transitional period until a date to be fixed by a council decision.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council introducing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by croatia and cyprus of certain documents as equivalent to their national visas for transit through or intended stay on their territories for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period and repealing decisions no 895/2006/ec and no 582/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council. this report is a natural step in regulating the control of persons at the external borders after croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and welcome the commission's proposal to amend the list of third countries whose nationals need visas to cross the external borders of the union. i believe that one of the most powerful effects of this measure will be to strengthen and deepen the relations between the union and those countries as a result of this decision based on the trust we place in those countries. while welcoming the upcoming inclusion of the uae on the positive list, i would like to draw attention to some human rights issues in the region, and the importance of effective union cooperation with the country, which will also be an example of good practice for the entire region.
in writing. - the european commission proposes to lift the visa requirement for nationals of the caribbean and pacific island states as follows: the following entries are added to the list of countries and territories in which the union is to be established: the citizens of these states pose no threat to the european union, either in terms of illegal immigration or public security. visa liberalisation will reduce the time and costs of preparing for travel to the schengen area. in addition, the visa waiver facilitates contacts between citizens, which is a key condition for ensuring the development of economic, cultural, scientific and other relations. the visa regime also strengthens contacts between peoples and gives substance to the principle of free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights of the european union. the european parliament should be involved and informed as to the status of bilateral visa waiver agreements between the european union and third countries for which visa waiver is proposed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment of the regulation establishing the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states and the list of those whose nationals are exempt from this requirement. this latest amendment transfers 19 countries from the negative list to the positive list, including 16 caribbean and pacific states, colombia, peru, and the united arab emirates. i also welcome the fact that an amendment now requires the commission to carry out a case-by-case assessment of various criteria relating in particular to illegal immigration, public order and security and the union's external relations with the third countries concerned, on the basis in particular of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the implications of regional coherence and reciprocity should also be taken into account. finally, the introduction of an obligation to inform the european parliament regularly of the state of negotiations on bilateral agreements on visa waivers is a positive development which improves the transparency of the functioning of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishing the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the member states and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. the evolving nature of the eu visa policy and the growing need to ensure greater coherence between the visa policy and other eu policies justify the consideration of additional criteria when examining the lists of countries set out in annexes i and ii to regulation (ec) no 539/2001. the determination of the third countries whose nationals are subject to or exempt from the visa requirement should be subject to a careful assessment on a case-by-case basis. this evaluation should be carried out on a regular basis and should lead to proposals for amendments to the annexes to the regulation, without prejudice to the possibility of having, in certain circumstances, country-specific amendments to the annexes, for example as a result of the visa liberalisation process or as a final consequence of the temporary suspension of the exemption from the visa requirement.
in the wake of the events in ukraine in recent days, many have voiced their concerns about the repeal of the law guaranteeing the use of minority languages. i agree that only a multiethnic and multilingual ukraine can set out on the european path, a country in which the rights of national minorities are guaranteed, respected and strengthened. i particularly welcome the appeal of the lemberg activists and intellectuals 'speak russian for a day' as a sign of solidarity with the russians living in eastern and southern ukraine. similar solidarity is needed for the hungarian and romanian minorities in ukraine. many have said that the language law's repeal would threaten the country's social order, stability and internal cohesion. it is gratifying to see that international politics is beginning to recognize that mutual respect and recognition between majorities and minorities, between different ethnicities, is generally based on commonly agreed rules. these arguments are worth considering in the context of the european ... (the president withdrew)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution and i salute the courage of the ukrainian people and the way they fought for the european future of their country. another good news is the release of yulia tymoshenko, which we all supported here in the european parliament. but i warn you that the removal of ianucovici does not mean that the country's european path has been smoothed. first of all, the territorial integrity of ukraine must be defended, as well as the pro-european orientation. we're already seeing russia start issuing passports to the residents of crimea and mobilizing its fleet from the port of sevastopol. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. in the absence of a firm response from the union, there is a risk that the sacrifices of the ukrainian people will have been in vain.
in writing. - as i have said on other occasions, i am in full solidarity and cannot but admire the courage with which the ukrainians have expressed their aspiration for democracy and for eu orientation. i regret the violence that has occurred and believe that the priority at this moment is to pacify ukrainian society and build a genuine democracy. the elections on 25 may are of particular importance and i believe that the eu must closely observe these elections and ensure that they are held in a fair manner, so that the result is in line with the wishes of the people and this victory is not confiscated from the ukrainians, as has happened in other cases in the arab countries. in the immediate future, it is important to maintain the territorial integrity of ukraine and to adopt new legislation for the protection of minorities and regional languages, including romanian. solutions to the economic disaster must also be found urgently. the eu must come to ukraine's aid through an assistance programme with the imf and the world bank. on the other hand, the eu can show its solidarity and support by resuming cooperation and signing the association agreement when conditions allow.
in writing. - we voted this joint resolution. i have argued since the beginning of the protests in ukraine that the only solution to stop the violence is the immediate resignation of president yanukovych and early elections. according to the ministry of health in kiev, since the escalation of violence on february 18 and until now, 82 people have lost their lives and 713 were injured. he fought and died in the streets for freedom and democracy and against the oligarchs. i demand the most severe sanctions. the perpetrators must be arrested and brought to justice, their accounts frozen, and the union must support ukraine on its way to a stable democratic regime. the early presidential elections on 25 may must be conducted in a transparent and fair manner and reflect the will of the people. we can no longer tolerate interference by the russian federation in the internal affairs of another state. the immediate signing of the association agreement with ukraine must be a priority.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in ukraine. following the decision of the government and the president of ukraine to suspend the signing of the association agreement, hundreds of thousands of people spontaneously took to the streets across the country to show support for european integration. as protesters in kiev peacefully occupied independence square (maidan nezalezhnosti), calling for a radical political change to force the government to reverse its decision, the eu decided to impose specific sanctions, including asset freezes and a visa ban on those responsible for human rights violations. member states have also agreed to suspend export licences for equipment that could be used for repression. we stress the importance of taking swift action to address the root causes of the crisis, restoring citizens' trust in the political class and institutions. we believe that this requires constitutional and structural reforms to create an effective system of separation of powers in the state, a closer link between the political class and society, a rule of law, a system of accountability, a truly independent and impartial judiciary, and free and credible elections. we stress the urgent need to establish a truly independent and impartial judiciary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i am also very concerned about the situation of instability in iraq. the capture of the city of fallujah by islamic militants is the best proof that the administration in baghdad does not have enough resources to ensure the security of iraqi citizens. unfortunately, the response of the central government, which has caused civilian casualties, confirms this incompetence. in addition, there are signs that tensions are spreading to other parts of the country. also, kidnappings remain a problem, and so foreigners are discouraged from investing in iraq. the european union and its partners need a common strategy that addresses the situation in the middle east in a comprehensive manner. the priority is to guarantee peace and security throughout the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 27 february 2014 on the situation in iraq. iraq continues to face serious political, socioeconomic and security challenges. serious social and economic problems - widespread poverty, high unemployment, economic stagnation, environmental degradation and lack of basic public services - continue to affect a significant part of the population. the eu reaffirmed its commitment to support iraq in its transition to democracy, recalling that iraq's unity and territorial integrity are essential elements in building a secure and prosperous state for all its citizens and in establishing stability throughout the region. we call on the european external action service (eeas) and the commission to support all efforts by the iraqi government to protect the iraqi civilian population. we call on all state and non-state actors to respect freedom of the press and media and to protect journalists and media outlets from acts of violence. a free press and media are an essential element of a functioning democracy, providing access to information and a platform for citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i also believe that there should be better regulation of the way drones are used. their civilian use can have numerous benefits. whether we are talking about mapping or studying weather phenomena, the advantages are many. however, doubts remain about military drones. not so much in terms of their accuracy or their military capability but in terms of the ethics of using these machines. they are not manned and rely heavily on information provided by specialised services. or if that information proves inaccurate, the results can be catastrophic.
in writing. the last decade has seen an increase in the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems, so-called drones, but there has been no development of the international legal framework governing the use of drones and no development of reporting on their effectiveness. we have to make sure that the use of drones does not have a negative impact on society by traumatizing civilians, seriously injuring them or even killing them. these drones must not become weapons of terror, but must reduce the loss of human life. i believe that there needs to be more transparency about the effectiveness of drones, both in terms of their impact on civil society and on the people who operate them.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament resolution on the use of armed drones. unfortunately, the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (drones) in lethal extraterritorial operations has increased sharply over the last decade. we invite the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, the member states and the council to include armed drones in relevant european and international disarmament and arms control regimes; to prohibit the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons systems that allow attacks to be carried out without human intervention; to support the work and follow-up on the recommendations of the un special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary and arbitrary executions and the un special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the fight against terrorism. we also urge the council to adopt a common eu position on the use of drones.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i support strengthening the role of the european union in monitoring the application of democratic principles in the member states. it is normal that before and after accession to the union, but especially after, each country should meet a number of criteria which are fundamental to the proper functioning of a state: the protection of minorities, respect for the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. where there are deviations from those principles, the union should have the competence to intervene and correct those deviations. this can ensure a uniform application of the democratic principles on which the eu is founded.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the state of fundamental rights in the eu, for which i voted in favour. it makes recommendations to the european commission and the member states to better guarantee citizens' rights in the union. the current political climate in many countries is characterised by the rise of xenophobic rhetoric and mistrust of foreigners, whether they are nationals of third countries or even of countries of the european union. in response, the report stresses, for example, that the right to freedom of movement is a fundamental right that must be vigorously defended, and that any attempt to revise this acquis must be brought before the court of justice of the eu, in particular in cases of violation of the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality. among many other recommendations, the resolution also proposes the establishment of a new mechanism to monitor, in a regular and objective manner, compliance with the eu accession criteria ('copenhagen criteria') when they are met. this mechanism would make it possible, in particular, to set objective indicators in order to avoid a 'double standard' system.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu. fundamental freedoms, human rights and equal opportunities must be guaranteed for all eu citizens. we call on the member states and the commission to protect, promote and implement the rights of the child in all its actions and policies, both internal and external, that have an impact on them. we stress that the principle of human dignity, equality before the law and the prohibition of discrimination on any grounds are among the foundations of a democratic society. the union and the member states must step up their action on equality and anti-discrimination. we call on member states to guarantee decent wages and pensions, reduce the gender pay gap, create high quality jobs for women, ensure women's access to quality public services and improve social protection provisions for women. we call on member states to take action to tackle the economic and social causes that foster violence against women, such as unemployment, low wages and pensions, low housing, poverty and inadequate or non-existent public services, in particular public health, education and social security services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the european arrest warrant, although in force for over 10 years, has led to unsatisfactory results. on the one hand, this instrument represents an important step towards the realisation of a genuine single area of freedom, security and justice. on the other hand, the low number of warrants issued so far shows that improvements are needed. firstly, i believe that the instrument should be applied to offences of a certain degree of risk at european level. in addition, the absence of minimum standards for pre-trial detention can lead to abuses and excessive periods of application of this measure. that is why i join those who are calling on the european commission to come forward with a proposal to improve the european arrest warrant.
in writing. - the framework decision on the european arrest warrant, adopted in 2002, entered into force on 1 january 2004 and is the eu's most important legal instrument based on the principle of mutual recognition, whereby judgments are executed on the basis of mutual trust. the objective of this mandate was to speed up and facilitate the bringing of suspects or accused persons to justice by transforming the old and burdensome extradition procedures involving the political world into a new, faster system of surrender, through communication between judicial authorities. it shall request the requested member state to execute the warrant without any assessment of the merits of the charge or conviction. the commission should facilitate the establishment and ensure adequate funding of a dedicated european arrest warrant judicial network and a network of defence lawyers working in the field of european criminal justice and extradition matters, as well as the european judicial training network. in addition, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the mutual recognition framework, the commission should examine the legal and financial means made available at union level to improve detention standards, including legislative proposals on conditions of pre-trial detention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it proposes to close a number of loopholes in the framework decision on the european arrest warrant. this legal instrument aims at communication and cooperation between european judicial authorities, facilitating surrender by setting strict deadlines and limiting the use of double incrimination as a ground for refusal. but the fact that only one fifth of the european arrest warrants issued between 2005 and 2009 were executed reveals the flaws highlighted in this report. the recommendation sent to the european commission draws attention to deficiencies such as the non-respect of procedural rights of suspects or accused persons, the poor conditions of detention, the alleged excessive use of this type of warrant by some member states and the non-application of the principle of proportionality. at the same time, member states are encouraged to implement european criminal law, in particular the provisions on the european investigation order, the european judicial supervision order and the measures on procedural rights.
in writing. - one of the main concerns in developing a single european area of freedom, security and justice is to improve the instruments of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the disappearance of internal borders also brings freedom of movement for criminals. according to eurostat, the number of union citizens serving a custodial sentence increased from 29 832 in 2006 to over 638 000 in 2010. this worrying increase demonstrates the need to create a single, functional criminal space with adequate tools to combat crime. we need the european arrest warrant because it is the most effective union legal instrument available to member states to prevent criminals from evading justice. i support the commission's proposal to reform the european arrest warrant procedures. extradition procedures should be carried out in a shorter time frame in order to facilitate the adjudication of cases by the competent courts and to improve the administration of justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing recommendations to the commission on the review of the european arrest warrant. the eu has set itself the objective of offering its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice. in accordance with article 6 of the treaty on european union (teu), the eu respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. in order to be effective, the principle of mutual recognition must be based on mutual trust, which can only be achieved by ensuring respect for the fundamental rights of suspects and accused persons and for procedural rights in criminal proceedings throughout the union. mutual trust is strengthened through training, cooperation and dialogue between judicial and legal authorities, creating a genuine european judicial culture. we call on the member states to implement in a timely and effective manner the body of union measures in the field of criminal law, given that they are complementary, including the european investigation order, the european judicial supervision order and the measures on procedural rights. we invite the commission to closely monitor the correct implementation and their impact on the functioning of the european arrest warrant and the union criminal justice area.
in writing. - i voted in favor of the resolution because the svlk system could help reduce illegal deforestation in indonesia. this country makes a lot of money from trading timber with the european union, so we have a duty to make sure that logging is done in a legal and, above all, environmentally sustainable way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-indonesia voluntary partnership agreement on forest law enforcement and governance and trade in timber products entering the european union. on 30 september 2013, the government of indonesia and the eu signed a voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in eu timber products (flegt), confirming the mutual commitment to ensure that timber entering the eu is legally produced, harvested and shipped. we welcome the outcome of the negotiations on the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber products entering the european union. we also welcome the efforts of the indonesian government to strengthen the role of the designated forestry police. the indonesian ministry of forestry has been requested to provide additional information on the illegal logging of timber in the indonesian forestry sector. we stress the particular importance of reporting to law enforcement authorities on businesses found to be operating illegally.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i am very concerned about the violence of the last few days. in addition to being the least democratic country in south america, venezuela now tends to be the most unstable. the fact that there are already civilian casualties is a clear signal that there is a risk of further violence. in my opinion, the administrative incompetence of the country's leadership has led to this situation, where people protest against poverty and the difficult economic situation. another cause is the repeated violation of human rights. although it is a country with enormous oil resources, i want to remind you that in venezuela about a quarter of the population lives below the poverty line, and the economic growth is far below the country's potential.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in venezuela. in view of the gravity of the current situation in venezuela, we call on the venezuelan authorities to immediately disarm and dismantle the uncontrolled pro-government armed groups and to end their impunity. we encourage all parties, and in particular the venezuelan authorities, to engage in a peaceful dialogue, addressing all segments of venezuelan society, to define points of convergence and allow political actors to discuss the most serious problems facing the country. respect for freedom of the press, freedom of information and opinion, and political pluralism are fundamental elements of democracy. we regret the existence of media and internet censorship, as well as the fact that access to some blogs and social networks is limited. we call for an ad hoc delegation of the european parliament to be sent as soon as possible to assess the situation in venezuela.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that in the future we will need to change certain aspects of the visa system at european level. i would point out that an effective visa policy also requires third countries to apply identical treatment to union countries. romania, along with several other countries, is still among the most discriminated states in the union. whether we're talking about visas in the united states or in canada, my country is not treated in this respect as an equal partner. and here too the role of the european commission needs to be more active, because it is also its duty to guarantee reciprocity in visa matters.
in writing. - the common visa policy is a natural and necessary consequence of the abolition of internal border controls within the schengen area, and the treaty of lisbon provides for the use of the ordinary legislative procedure for all aspects of the common visa policy and for parliament's consent to all international agreements in this field. the european commission and the member states should improve the implementation of the current visa acquis and, in particular, step up local schengen cooperation with a view to improving the short-term implementation of the visa code. member states should make use of the current provisions of the visa code and the schengen borders code, allowing for the issuance of humanitarian visas and facilitating the temporary shelter of human rights defenders at risk in third countries. full visa reciprocity is also an objective that the union should actively pursue in its relations with third countries, thus contributing to enhancing the credibility and consistency of the union's external policy at international level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of eu visa policy. the common visa policy is a natural and necessary consequence of the abolition of internal border controls within the schengen area. i voted for amendment 3 which argues that an eu-ukraine visa waiver agreement is a way of responding to the demands coming from ukrainian civil society and ukrainian students who have been participating in the demonstrations in recent days. we stress that such an agreement would intensify exchanges and human contacts between civil societies, thus leading to improved mutual understanding, and would be beneficial for economic exchanges. the commission is invited to submit a proposal to include ukraine in the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement. we call on the member states to fully implement the current visa facilitation agreement to facilitate access to the eu, in particular for students and scientific researchers. we believe that in the future steps should be taken towards greater harmonisation of visa issuing procedures, including the adoption of truly common visa issuing rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the contribution made by women in fishing activities must be recognised. in most cases they are not employed with proper documents, so they do not enjoy social benefits such as health insurance or contribution to the pension system. in addition, statistics show that over 100,000 women are employed in the fishing industry. we should also not forget that there are areas where fishing is the only source of income. so we have to make sure that these women are paid fairly and have the rights that they deserve. the european fisheries fund can be of particular importance in this respect. and funding projects that benefit women would significantly improve their situation.
in writing. - in the eu, 100 000 women work in the fishing sector, but their work is not recognised and generally remains invisible, despite the fact that it has considerable economic added value and despite the fact that it contributes to the social, economic and environmental sustainability of many european towns and regions, especially fisheries-dependent areas. since eu-wide statistics on the labour force in fisheries, aquaculture and related activities are not complete, harmonised and detailed on specific indicators, it is necessary for the commission to support the development of an improved statistical programme that allows the estimation of the contribution of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. i also believe that it is necessary to encourage and provide economic support for women's association through women's networks at national and european level, in order to increase the visibility of the role of women in the fishing sector, to raise awareness in society of the contribution of women to this activity, to facilitate exchanges of experience and to communicate the needs and demands of women from local administrations to european bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the role of women in the fishing industry needs to be strengthened. women play an important role in fishing communities, sometimes being the sole breadwinners. there are studies that demonstrate the added value of women in the fishing industry, and yet they do not enjoy a legislative framework that gives them the benefits they deserve. for example, women who work in family businesses do not benefit from health insurance or a pension plan. i believe that the new common fisheries policy must also focus on the principle of equality, in order to reduce gender discrimination in the industry and to grant women and men the same rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on specific measures taken under the common fisheries policy to develop the role of women. we call on the commission and the council to give legal and social recognition to the role of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector and in the sustainable development of fisheries-dependent areas, with a view to removing all economic, administrative and social barriers that impede their participation on equal terms. requests to member states to recognise the professional status of women in cases of temporary interruption of work, including interruptions for biological reasons we call on the member states to take measures to develop and modernise local infrastructure, diversify economic activities and improve the quality of life in fishing areas, especially in areas that depend entirely on fishing, in order to ensure their sustainable development, combat poverty in general and that of women and children in particular, as well as violence against women and domestic violence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i too agree that the private copying levy should be much more transparent. and i'm referring specifically to how the money collected through this type of tax is used. on the other hand, i cannot support the move to pass the private copying levy on to consumers. collection must be made at the level of the manufacturer or importer. the revenue shall be used in particular to stimulate creativity and innovation in the cultural sector, especially in view of the difficulties faced by the sector at present. last but not least, coordination between member states will be essential to avoid double taxation and to impose additional pressure on copyright holders.
in writing. - i voted for the private copying fee resolution. the cultural sector provides 5 million jobs in the eu and 2.6% of eu gdp, and is one of the main drivers of european growth and a source of new jobs that cannot be relocated. this sector stimulates innovation and is an effective means of combating the current recession. we call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to revise directive 2001/29/ec on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, including a provision on the full harmonisation of exceptions and limitations relating, inter alia, to private copying. the private copying system is a fair system and balances the exception of copying for personal use with the right to fair compensation for rightholders. this is a system that should be maintained, in particular in cases where rightholders are not able to obtain a direct licence for the right of reproduction on multiple devices. in the short term, there is no alternative to this balanced system and we stress that in the long term, debates should be organised with a view to continuously evaluating the private copying system in the light of market and digital developments and consumer behaviour.
the reporter. - mr president, the european investment bank has benefited from a capital increase of eur 10 billion, which facilitates the additional allocation for the period 2013-2015 of eur 60 billion for long-term loans for european projects. the bank must ensure that it meets its target of generating jobs for at least half a million europeans in 2014 through lending for infrastructure projects, for resource efficiency, as well as for smes. i believe that a comprehensive assessment is needed, providing viable figures on the long-term jobs created by eib loans and the impact of these loans on the economy. i believe that the european investment bank can play a decisive role in optimising investment and at the same time act as a catalyst for closer cooperation between the commission and the member states in very important areas such as cohesion policy. the linking of risk-sharing instruments between the commission and the eib, together with the creation of synergies between the activities of the bank and the european investment fund, will facilitate the implementation of the europe 2020 objectives and support the stability and growth pact. many member states are experiencing low absorption rates of structural funds. the bank should step up its efforts to improve the capacity of member states to absorb union resources, including the structural funds. member states may use part of the structural funds allocation both to share risk and to provide guarantees for loans contracted by the eib. the funding constraints affecting businesses and the public sector continue to have a negative impact on youth employment. the bank's youth employment programme, with a lending volume of eur 6 billion, is of the utmost importance in addressing these issues. the bank needs to broaden its scope and use additional instruments to provide viable incentives for job creation for young people, particularly in member states known for high rates of youth unemployment. the main problems in several countries are lack of funds and higher financing costs, especially for smes. the bank's efforts must therefore be refocused on promoting sme financing, entrepreneurship, exports and innovation, which are vital for economic recovery. the joint initiative of the commission and the sme finance bank under the new financial framework, combining the funds available from the cosme and horizon 2020 programmes, with up to eur 8,5 billion dedicated to the european structural and investment funds to generate additional lending to smes, should be supported. it requires member states to participate actively by contributing to the common instruments through the loans received through the funds in order to support the increase in the number of loans granted to smes in their territory, thus increasing leverage at the global level. strengthen the bank's responsibility to increase the level of transparency in the selection of financial intermediaries and partners for co-financed projects, as well as in the final beneficiaries. the bank's aaa rating is essential to maintain its financial soundness and ability to inject liquidity into the real economy. at the same time, however, the bank, together with the european investment fund, must consider, in certain cases, increasing commitments to higher risk activities. last but not least, i support the need for prudential supervision of the bank by the european central bank in the context of the future banking union.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president hoyer, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the european investment bank is of particular importance in the context of the urgent need for economic growth and the reduction of unemployment and poverty in the european union. i would like to remind you that some member states currently face unemployment rates of more than 25%, public debt above gross domestic product or high levels of poverty and require massive investment. this is why i welcome the recent decision to increase the eib's capital, which will allow more projects to be launched for the benefit of citizens. at the same time, given the difficulties faced by small and medium-sized enterprises, the engine of the european economy, when seeking financing, i believe that the bank's actions should be centred around promoting sme financing instruments. investment needs to be directed towards job creation, especially for young people, and towards vocational training and skills projects.
madam president, i welcome the european investment bank's 2012 annual report and the implementation of the agreed operational plan to finance some 400 projects in over 60 countries. i believe that more attention needs to be paid to investing in long-term growth and job creation. we call on the european investment bank to develop, in close cooperation with the member states, results-oriented investment plans that are appropriately aligned with national, regional and local growth priorities. we also call on the european investment bank to stimulate viable investment in debt instruments, which direct private capital to the necessary transport, energy and infrastructure projects in the field of communications and information technology. we also support the need for the european investment bank to make greater efforts to support the capacity of member states to absorb european union resources, including structural funds, given the extremely low absorption rates currently existing in many member states. i conclude, madam president, by saying that it is extremely important that the connecting europe facility be supported also by investment through the eib.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, i would like to ask a question to my predecessor, who was talking about the lack of sustainable projects, as opposed to the criteria of the european investment bank. however, i would like to ask a question, not only to my colleague but also to the european investment bank: what do you think of the nabucco project, which is becoming all the more sustainable and important for the european union, especially in the context of the crisis in ukraine?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, the current difficult economic and financial situation requires decisive policy action, and the eib’s activity is a crucial component of our efforts to bring back growth and employment to europe. in this difficult environment it is important that the eib assumes its role as a policy-driven bank, acts as a countercyclical institution and continues to provide financing to the real economy, especially in regions and sectors where funds are not available from other sources on reasonable terms. i am convinced that parliamentʼs assessment of the eibʼs activities in the year ahead will be as supportive as its opinion on the 2012 annual report, and i look forward to continued close and successful cooperation between the commission and the bank. finally, i would like to thank you again for the excellent collaboration in the preparations for the eif capital increase. we look forward to bringing this important project to a successful outcome with you.
european investment bank. - madam president, let me start by thanking the commission for its very good cooperation. the work that the european investment bank does would not be possible without the very close and trusting cooperation between the commission and the bank. i would also like to thank all the members of the european parliament who have contributed to this debate today, as well as in the committee meetings. this has been very encouraging for us. of course, in a dynamic and vibrant parliament there will also be contradictions in the arguments that are presented. i probably cannot do justice to each and every one of you who has contributed to this debate today, but i promise that we will come back to each of you individually if there are matters that i am unable to respond to here today. let me say that i read bankwatch and publications from other institutions too. i believe that sometimes you may be misled a little and that the reinforcement of prejudices or stereotypes does not really serve any purpose. i would like to say here that it is pure nonsense that only 5[nbsp ]% of the volume of investment goes to programme countries. we will come back to this in more detail. i would also like to stress that the capital increase granted by the member states – with the support of the parliament and the commission – has also enabled us to considerably raise the risk profile of the bank’s activities. this was very helpful for us, but raising the risk profile does not mean wasting money. this is a balance sheet. the eib is not there to give grants. the eib is first and foremost a bank. this is its raison d’être and the basis for everything we do, because every cent we lend comes from the capital markets. we must have the strongest possible status in the capital markets in order to be able to do such business. i would also like to say that, when you enter upon a short-term request from the european council concerning the big challenge of youth unemployment in europe, you are under huge pressure to act quickly. time is of the essence. if we want to address the issue of youth unemployment seriously, we must speed up the process. we succeeded not only in beginning the disbursement of the pledged eur[nbsp ]6[nbsp ]billion within one month from early july to early august, but also in disbursing 50[nbsp ]% more than we had pledged. so do not expect the final analysis of the success story yet. it is simply too soon. i think we might even have to recalibrate – there is no doubt about this – after due analysis. we will do this. there have been huge developments in the bank. when this bank was founded under the treaty of rome, nobody would have thought of doing business with smes on a short-term basis. at that time, the bank was conceived of as a long-term lender for big infrastructure projects. last year, we increased the volume of sme lending by almost a hundred percent to eur 22 billion. this is a huge process that has changed the character of the bank. the developments on the capital markets and the state of affairs in banking are not such that we can assume that this pressure on smes will be reduced in the next couple of years. my concern is that, with the necessary changes in the process of achieving banking union, we might see a further credit crunch for smes in particular. we will therefore be present in this business as well. the question about blue chip companies and smes is a contradiction that reflects old thinking. we are now living in a completely different world where the dual approach between smes and large corporations has produced the global value chain. integration and interaction between companies of different sizes is therefore the name of the game in the modern world. we can see that, in some countries, additional activity in sme business is probably necessary. we will come back to that, but i do not want to contribute to speculation about developments in the banking systems of individual countries. we can do that in detail as well. i would like to express a major concern which i have for the european economy. over ten years, the european economy has seen a reduction in investment. the investment level in the european union and the member states, today and over the last couple of years, is constantly some 15[nbsp ]% below the value of 2007. what does that mean for the quality of the capital stock in the european union? it is deteriorating from year to year because we do not invest enough. in addition to that, the european union is losing ground to its global competitors when it comes to innovation, research, the promotion of technology, and education. the average contribution to innovation – the knowledge economy – in general in south korea, japan or the united states is far beyond 3[nbsp ]% of gdp per year. in europe for the last ten years, it has been consistently below 2[nbsp ]%, with huge differences among the member states. so there is not only an investment gap but also an innovation gap in europe. i wonder what our position in the world markets will be if we do not stop that trend very quickly. therefore, i fully support the idea of doing more for smes. however, i also fully support the idea of finally jumping on the innovation wagon. is our infrastructure in europe really perfect? i am rather doubtful about that. consequently, i believe that it will be very difficult to end up with a balanced portfolio in the eib. but this is something i am ready to discuss with you in detail, just as i am ready to give detailed answers to any of your questions individually if i could not give a quick response here today.
the reporter. - madam president, commissioner reding, mr president hoyer, the most debated topic in recent years in this chamber has been economic development and jobs. economic development and jobs can only be done through investment and working capital. member states, because of the economic crisis, have reduced public investment; banks, because of the problems they have had, have reduced lending to smes and have also increased the cost of financing. you're an investment bank, you could do exactly those two things: direct credit to investment and help increase the working capital opportunity for smes. the european union, through the european funds, through the new regulations for the next financial year, is encouraging economic growth and job creation. all the european funds, all the regulations are being drawn up in this direction. you have to work with the member states, put together your own funds and european funds so that you can help and deliver on that promise of 500 000 jobs in 2014. it is, i think, what you should do as a matter of priority, and not just in very safe countries, but also in countries that have problems. and you know that 5% is real, that's data taken from your documents. i thank my colleagues for their participation in this debate, especially for the very pertinent questions they have asked, and i hope that what you have promised here, what you have said - you have committed yourselves to answering all these questions in a timely manner - will be fulfilled very soon.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, i would like to ask mrs delvaux whether she does not think that the gender equality report should also include equality in terms of the professional reintegration of women after long periods of absence, and i am referring here to the need for member states to increase the budget for childcare, especially for children aged 0 to 3 but even up to 7 years, in order to expand the public network of day care, nursery and services providing extracurricular services? we know that in europe there are waiting lists for kindergartens and kindergartens up to 2 years old. i believe that equal opportunities must also solve this problem.
the problem of social equality between women and men raises a number of questions, which can be analysed from several perspectives. it is essential that we can enforce the principle of equal pay for equal work, as statistics consistently show that this is a very serious discriminatory situation. i am convinced that promoting greater participation of women in decision-making, and thus increasing the proportion of women in the various bodies, would have a positive impact on our decisions. all questions require the kind of approach that is more typical of our female colleagues. the most important aspect of the problem, however, is the lack of family policy measures. we must do everything possible to ensure that women's decision to have children, the number of children, is less dependent on the economic situation of the family. when and how many children a family has should not be an economic decision. at the same time, we must help women to make reasonable compromises between raising children and building a career. the aim is to reconcile family life and the world of work, and there is still much to be done in this area.
mr president, the strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015 finds that, although women represent almost half of the workforce in the european union and more than half of university graduates, they are still under-represented in decision-making processes and positions. a particular problem is rural women, who have a much lower employment rate than urban women. many rural women have never been active in the labour market; thus, they are not registered as unemployed, which leads to financial and legal problems in terms of entitlement to maternity leave and sick leave, to acquiring pension rights and social security. representation rates, family responsibilities, equal pay, introducing gender quotas for employers, representation rates in decision-making, skills and abilities doubles are important steps that can contribute to gender equality in the european union.
mr president, we have spoken from this microphone on several occasions about the justice system in romania. it's a shame what's happening in this field. the european union has 27 countries and one prison - romania. there are political prisoners who, whatever they ask, don't stand a chance! everything bounces off their treadmill. this is the case of our former colleague in the european parliament, george becali, the patron of the football team steaua bucharest, former holders of the european champions cup. the other day, two more members of the becali family were thrown in jail on very thin charges. so a whole tribe. they're being paid off by some very vindictive character. a terrible injustice is also being done to the great footballer gheorghe popescu, former captain of the romanian national team and fc barcelona, sentenced only to prove that justice works in romania. no, it doesn't work, it terrorizes. romanian football is dying. that's too bad.
mr president, in the 21st century, seeking employment, working in a foreign country and living there to do that work are fundamental rights of the union. a person who wishes to work in a geographical area other than that of his country shall enjoy the same treatment as nationals of that country as regards access to the labour market, working conditions and other social and tax advantages. equally, the right to work also implies the right to strike, to draw attention in a peaceful way to the violation of fundamental rights, as romanian citizens in florence, italy, who were attacked by the authorities while peacefully protesting their rights, thought it appropriate to do. we are able, as european citizens, to show solidarity with the situation of any individual whose rights have been minimized or cancelled, guaranteed and absolutely legal in the european union.
the european commission's task is to speak to all the citizens of the union, to all its communities. romania has a hungarian community of almost one and a half million people, yet the communication of the commission's romanian representation is missing the hungarian language. i regret that the members of the hungarian community in romania do not receive information from the commission through the media in their mother tongue. the number of hungarians in romania is larger than the total population of some member states. there are as many hungarians in romania as the entire population of estonia, and we are more than the population of cyprus, luxembourg or malta. hungarians in romania have the same right to information in their mother tongue as swedes in finland, catalans in spain, germans in belgium and turks in cyprus. i would ask the european commission to introduce information in hungarian at its romanian representation.
today, in marosvásárhely, hungarians living in romania again held a peaceful demonstration demanding the autonomy of the szeklerland region, which has a hungarian majority. for decades, the nearly one and a half million hungarians in romania have been demanding that szeklerland, which is inhabited by a majority of hungarians, should be a region with a special status, with greater decision-making powers, while respecting the territorial integrity of romania. international practice shows that the various forms of autonomy greatly facilitate peaceful and harmonious cooperation between ethnic groups. the message of today's demonstration is that there are still many unanswered questions about the situation of hungarians living in romania, and the community is peacefully voicing its dissatisfaction and asking the government for dialogue. i hope that the international community will also listen to the voice of the hungarians in romania.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all those who have participated in this debate, but i would like first of all to reply to some of the criticisms regarding the eib investing in projects outside the european union. first of all, we are not an inward-looking european union. it is true that there is that english proverb which says ‘charity begins at home’, which is the most abused proverb in the english language. it does begin at home, because 90[nbsp ]% of all the funds of the european investment bank go to projects within the european union, so let us not run away with this idea that the eib is squandering money on projects outside the european union. so there is 10[nbsp ]% – and here we are dealing with 10[nbsp ]% of the funding as regards guarantees – that goes to projects outside the european union. since these are long-term projects, it is important, if the bank is to retain its aaa grading, that we give this guarantee to the european investment bank. but to say – because the criticism leads to this conclusion – that we should reduce that 10[nbsp ]% in funding for projects outside the european union would mean that we would create a european ghetto where we only do things for ourselves, and this would weaken our external action and foreign policy. let us take ukraine, for instance. right now we have this country, ukraine, which has a strong european perspective. while we have some euro-scepticism within the european union, we have people in ukraine who have died while waving european flags. should we abandon ukraine, particularly at this moment in time, when part of its territory has been invaded by another country? so what are we doing for ukraine? first of all, ukraine is one of the eligible countries under the proposed decision, so if we vote in favour of this decision today, we are indirectly also helping ukraine. the bank already has a priority project pipeline in ukraine of up to eur[nbsp ]1.5 billion for the next three years and could significantly scale this up if adequate guarantee provisions are granted and if the political and operational conditions allow it. should we diminish the 10[nbsp ]% and exclude ukraine? of course not. the bank could just provide finance in ukraine for long-term investments of up to eur[nbsp ]3 billion for 2014-2016 in support of both the local private sector and economic and social infrastructure. i disagree with those who have asked if we are doing this to bribe eastern european countries to join the european union. first of all, i take pride in the fact that there is a long waiting list of countries who want to join. if they want to join something, they must see something very good in the organisation they want to join. until now, there is no waiting list of countries which want to leave the european union, only of countries that want to join, but to say that we are bribing them – it is not bribing them, it is assisting them to fulfil the european dream for which some of them have died. the european union’s eur[nbsp ]4.8 billion ceiling for the eastern neighbourhood in the proposed decision is sufficient to cover this increase of eib operations in ukraine in the short term, and there is scope to increase this further under the flexibility to reallocate across regions. following the mid-term review, as i said in my opening speech, there is also the option to activate the optional mandate of eur[nbsp ]3 billion. my friend ms abela baldacchino, from malta, mentioned the mediterranean. the european union and the west invested so much, in the so-called arab spring, in the revolutions in three countries – egypt, libya and tunisia – where, for the first time, we have had democratic elections, in spite of the turbulence and vicissitudes of these revolutions. but we have had free elections for the first time in decades in these three countries. we have invested so much politically in north africa that we cannot abandon them to their fate, and the projects financed by the european investment bank in north africa are a way of doing politics, of doing foreign policy in our neighbourhood. in conclusion, i recommend that we adopt this decision. i would like to reiterate the commission’s support for this proposal for a decision and underline once again the value of this tool to the european union in supporting the promotion and implementation of the eu’s external policies in our partner countries.
in writing. as the development committee's rapporteur on the eib's external mandate, i welcome our discussion today of the kalfin report. i hope that the agreement reached with the council will enable the eib to continue to be one of the most active financial institutions in the field of development projects. i particularly welcome the fact that the eu guarantee is maintained at the level it was previously at, i.e. 30 billion. the additional 2 billion from unused femip funds is a substantial contribution to the bank's activities in support of our external relations objectives. i am also pleased that the agreement reached includes many of the ideas i advocated in the development committee, for example alignment with the priorities of the beneficiary countries, direct support, not just indirect, of the union's development cooperation activities, increased transparency in cases where financing is operated through intermediaries, as well as more clarity on the use of the eu guarantee by the eib. finally, even if the agreed text is not as ambitious in this respect as the deve opinion, i welcome the clear references to the development of parameters for monitoring how eib-funded projects contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in article 21 of the treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a necessary step in a wide range of structural changes in inland waterway transport. in other words, the text voted today empowers the european commission to adopt delegated acts, in the light of economic and/or technological trends, to adapt the scope of data collection and the content of the annexes. all these measures will facilitate the development and publication of criteria and methodological requirements designed to ensure the quality of the data produced. i also support the rapporteur's view that the development of a coherent and timely inland waterway transport policy will be facilitated by the collection of data on both passengers and goods carried.
in writing. - inland waterway transport in europe for freight and passenger transport, including in urban river agglomerations, can and must play an important role in the european economy to enable the full contribution of this sector to the europe 2020 strategy. currently, there are still a number of obstacles to be overcome, such as the lack of adequate infrastructure or infrastructure charges. i support the rapporteur's proposal that an accurate picture of airworthiness in the union can only be obtained on the basis of reliable and objective statistical data. they will enable the union to develop and implement an appropriate policy in this area, which will lead to the development of an integrated, safe, environmentally friendly and competitive mode of transport (including social aspects) and the creation of new jobs at european level. i also believe that the eu should also support efforts to renew and retrain the inland waterway fleet, which would lead to more environmental benefits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on statistics of inland waterway freight transport as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures. in order to take account of economic and technological developments, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union should be delegated to the commission in respect of adapting the statistical coverage threshold for inland waterway transport, adapting definitions and adopting new definitions, and adapting the content of the annexes. in order to develop an appropriate inland waterway transport policy and to ensure consistency in the collection of statistical data for all modes of transport, both passenger and goods data should be collected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal because the economic crisis has shown us the need to systematically correct macroeconomic imbalances. the quality and accuracy of the statistics on them are relevant for the assessment of national economic and fiscal policies at european level before they are adopted in the member states, and beyond. effective monitoring of the statistical quality of indicators as well as of basic statistical information is therefore vital in the policy context of improving the economic governance of the union. last but not least, close cooperation with the statistical authorities of the member states will be needed for all these data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments adopted by the european parliament on 11 march 2014 concerning the proposal for a regulation on the provision and quality of statistics for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. the detection, prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is necessary to improve the economic governance of the union. the proposal for a regulation lays down the rules governing the way statistical data relevant for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure are provided. these rules concern the development, quality monitoring and publication of the indicators in the scoreboard for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. the main objective of the regulation is to develop a reliable quality monitoring procedure with the aim of ensuring the best quality of data relevant for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure (mip). the relevant data for map to be transmitted by member states shall refer to the previous year (n-1) and the previous nine years (n-2 to n-10). i consider that the suspension of funds following the application of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure should only be a measure of last resort and should take into account in-depth analyses of indicators on unemployment, poverty and declining gdp.
in writing. - i voted to extend the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america for a further period of five years. this is an agreement dating back to 1998 and which benefits both parties by promoting the interest in continuing cooperation in these areas, thus bringing socioeconomic benefits. in a different vein, member states and the commission need to encourage international cooperation in global research infrastructures, and at the same time explore new ways of reducing the digital and technological gap in developing countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the extension of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america approving the extension of the agreement for a further period of five years. by decision 98/591/ec, the council approved the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america (the 'agreement'). pursuant to article 12 (b) of the agreement, it is concluded for an initial period of five years and may be extended, subject to any amendments, for further periods of five years by mutual agreement in writing between the parties. by council decision 2009/306/ec, the agreement was extended for a further period of five years. the parties to the agreement consider that a rapid renewal of this agreement would be in their mutual interest. the content of the extended agreement is identical to that of the agreement expiring on 14 october 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european union ratifying the nagoya protocol and i think it is very important that all member states ratify it as soon as possible. such a protocol on access to genetic resources and fair sharing of benefits is, in my view, a key instrument in the service of a new vision for biodiversity. i say this because this enhanced cooperation will result in the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and, by extension, the environment, thus contributing to the achievement of the millennium development goals.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol is a particularly important agreement for the international governance of biodiversity, as it establishes an international regime to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the fair and equitable distribution of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources to enable the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. this agreement is all the more important as it comes in the context of a global biodiversity crisis, which is tending to worsen, threatening the extinction of more and more species and putting considerable pressure on ecosystems. the nagoya protocol can reverse this trend by mobilising the international resources needed to preserve biodiversity vital to our societies. the nagoya protocol will enter into force shortly after it has been ratified by 50 states. it is essential that the european union and all its member states ratify it as soon as possible in order to maintain its leadership and be present at the table for the first negotiations to take place at the next conference of the parties in 2014.
in writing. - scientists are drawing attention to the fact that one in three species is threatened with extinction and sounding the alarm about the pressure on ecosystems. biodiversity is vital to humanity, and ecosystems are important because of the services they provide to citizens, no matter where they live. as such, europe must be involved in order to mobilise all the necessary resources, at european and international level, mainly financial, to preserve biodiversity, and one means of achieving this is the implementation of the nagoya protocol. i therefore consider it essential that all member states and the european union ratify this document as soon as possible so that europe can maintain its leadership status and negotiate with the other partners in this position at the next conference this year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization to the convention on biological diversity, approving the conclusion of the agreement. in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in particular article 191 thereof, the european union is competent to conclude international agreements and to implement the obligations resulting therefrom, contributing to the achievement of the following objectives: the conservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment, the protection of human health, the prudent and rational use of natural resources, and the promotion at international level of measures to address regional or global environmental problems, and in particular to combat climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund for the redundancies in the textile enterprises of the comunidad valenciana. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for granting the financial assistance referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. the european globalisation adjustment fund has proved to be an effective tool to help people who have lost their jobs and, in particular, the less qualified and disadvantaged jobseekers. it is therefore very important that more and more countries in difficulty benefit from this aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the 300 textile workers made redundant in the comunidad valenciana, spain. the application fulfils all the eligibility conditions of the egf regulation. i regret the situation on the labour market in the comunidad valenciana, where unemployment was close to 30% in the first quarter of 2013. on the other hand, i welcome the speed of reaction of the spanish national and local authorities, who were able to make use of the funding instruments at european level. i also welcome the way in which the mass redundancies were addressed, in this case the consultation of the social partners and trade unions, but also the development and delivery of a labour market reintegration package for the 300 people made redundant. i am also pleased that the application was processed quickly by the european commission services, namely within just 4 months.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the egf for spain because i believe that the european union must intervene through concrete action in situations of labour market crisis. supporting the 560 workers made redundant as a result of the impact of globalisation on the textile sector is one such crisis. the manufacture of textiles is a predominant industrial sector in the comunidad valenciana. the egf will therefore contribute significantly to reducing the level of unemployment in that community, which stood at 29,19% in the first quarter of 2013. the european union's efforts must focus on addressing the employment crisis in regions dependent on traditional sectors. in this respect, special attention should be paid to vocational retraining courses as a solution to alleviate the unemployment rate. by voting in favour, i welcome the prompt and effective response of the european commission and the spanish authorities to the reintegration of spanish workers into the labour market, especially as tens of thousands of romanians live in the comunidad valenciana. i also express my confidence that the improvements to the procedure in the new regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund will make it possible to make this instrument more efficient in the current multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. the eu's trade balance in textiles went from a surplus of eur 1,107 billion in 2004 to a deficit of eur 3,067 billion in 2012. the commission services consider that the 560 redundancies in the comunidad valenciana region of spain may be linked, in accordance with the requirements of articles 1 and 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, to major changes in the structure of world trade, which have led to a substantial increase in imports into the eu and a decrease in the eu's market share on world markets. the total budget is eur 1[nbsp ]680[nbsp ]000 of which the egf contribution (50%) is eur 840[nbsp ]000 . the coordinated package of personalised services, aimed at the professional reintegration of redundant workers, comprises a number of measures such as: counselling, career guidance and profiling; vocational training and development of transversal skills, incentives and support for setting up a business.
madam president, by rejecting this proposal for a regulation, the european parliament has sent a strong signal to the commission about society's concerns about possible excessive and misconstrued regulation. we need new legislation in this area, because the current one dates back to the 1960s. i also understand the concerns about seed purity or consumer protection. however, the form proposed by the commission is not the expected one. farmers, small producers and consumers are concerned about the limitation of the free choice of cultivated varieties, the danger of the disappearance of some local varieties and threats to biodiversity. putting the commercial interests of large corporations first is another source of concern. the commission must come back to the next parliament elected in may this year with a new proposal that takes account of all these concerns.
in writing. - i voted against the commission's proposal because i too am inclined to believe that a one-size-fits-all approach to the subject is likely to create a number of ambiguities. i say this because there is a wide variety of plant reproductive material, regulated by 12 directives. the benefit is obvious: it allows the legislation to be adapted to each individual case. therefore, a single regulation may not meet the requirements for plant reproductive material. in addition, the needs of operators, consumers and competent authorities must also be taken into account. on the other hand, the 12 directives have been updated frequently and substantially, so there is a need for clarity and transparency. i believe that the problem requires a thorough analysis, and the final solution must be based on reducing the bureaucratic burden for all the actors involved.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal for a regulation on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material (the plant breeding material act). due to the wide variety of plant reproductive material, it is currently regulated by 12 directives, which allows the adaptation of legislation to each individual case. a single approach risks not meeting the different requirements of plant reproductive material and the needs of operators, consumers and competent authorities. the unification of the current directives into a single legislative act does not respond to a concrete request of stakeholders. we stress, however, that eu legislation on plant reproductive material must facilitate and encourage the maintenance of agricultural and horticultural biodiversity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because a salary adjustment was required for all european union officials, following the decisions of the european court of justice. i also believe that a review of the current calculation system should be considered, especially in the context of the financial difficulties the union has been facing for several years. however, it must be borne in mind that these revenues were negotiated several years ago and their modification during the contractual period could lead to legal proceedings being brought against the union institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation adjusting, with effect from 1 july 2011, the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union and the correction coefficients applied. the court of justice has confirmed that, under the exemption clause, the european parliament and the council have a wide margin of discretion as regards the adjustment of remuneration and pensions. in view of the economic and social developments and the economic and financial crisis which has affected a number of member states and caused the immediate deterioration of the economic and social situation in the union, it has been decided to adjust the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union for a period of five years (2010 to 2014). in 2010, the application of the method provided for in article 3 of annex xi to the staff regulations resulted in an adjustment of 0,1%. for 2011 and 2012, the outcome of the global approach to resolving disputes on the adjustment of remuneration and pensions for 2011 and 2012 results in an adjustment of 0% and 0,8% respectively. in addition, as part of the political compromise on the reform of the staff regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants, it was decided to freeze remuneration and pensions for the years 2013 and 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the adjustment of the salaries and pensions of union officials from 1 july 2012 was necessary to take account of previous judgments of the court of justice of the european union. the various allowances paid to the staff of the institutions of the union also had to be adapted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation as certain clarifications of trade aspects of the stabilisation and association agreement signed between serbia and the european union in 2008 were needed. serbia has made important progress in its process of rapprochement with the union, and the opening of accession negotiations is clear evidence of this. political commitment to reforms must continue and their implementation be strengthened, in particular in areas of concern such as justice, the fight against corruption and organised crime, but also in the protection of national minorities. in relation to the latter, although there is relevant legislation in this area, its implementation is still weak, and this is reflected also in the ethnic romanians of the timocului valley, who cannot fully enjoy rights such as education in their mother tongue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part. i also voted against amendment no 1, which rejects the council's position at first reading. a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and serbia was signed in luxembourg on 29 april 2008. it entered into force on 1 september 2013. with a view to the effective implementation of the saa, the commission has proposed a regulation on certain procedures for the implementation of trade-related aspects of the saa. this regulation lays down rules and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement and of the eu-serbia interim agreement on trade and other trade-related matters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i have done for all the legislative initiatives that have benefited from the experience of the financial crisis and the shortcomings of financial supervision. the changes introduced by eiopa and esma are the result of the need to redefine the financial architecture and to increase the degree of harmonisation of national and european financial policies. monitoring and assessing potential risks needs to be carried out with the utmost diligence to ensure financial stability in the face of macroeconomic and financial system developments as a whole, and all to guarantee the transparency of financial markets and products, as well as the protection of all european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directives 2003/71/ec and 2009/138/ec as regards the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority, adopting the european parliament's position at first reading. the financial crisis of 2007 and 2008 highlighted wide gaps in financial supervision both in specific cases and in the financial system as a whole. the crisis has brought to the fore shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination, consistent application of union law and trust between national competent authorities. the areas for which amendments are proposed generally fall into the following categories: defining the appropriate field of technical standards as an additional tool to achieve convergence of supervisory practices and to develop a single regulatory framework; properly integrating the possibility for authorities to resolve disagreements in a balanced way in those areas where joint decision-making processes already exist in sectoral legislation; general common amendments to most sectoral legislation and necessary for the proper functioning of the directives in the context of the establishment of new authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the constant evolution of technology and the means available to potential criminals in money laundering are real challenges that need to be addressed through enhanced, cross-border and, not least, proactive cooperation. this can be done by implementing international standards in the field as a matter of priority and by continuously monitoring and evaluating their application in practice. improving the traceability of payments will also lead to greater transparency. moreover, it is an effective way of countering the current trend of money laundering moving from developed countries to the least developed, where the legislation is lax and more permissive.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe we need transparency in the transfer of funds at european level. knowledge of the originator and the beneficiary of the payment is a valuable tool for the prevention, detection and investigation of money laundering and terrorist financing. the global money laundering flow is estimated to amount to approximately 2.7% of global gdp. this figure can only be reduced by registering the owners of companies and investment funds in public registers, by making it impossible for criminals to hide behind secret accounts and offshore companies. it is important that payment service providers observe whether the information provided is complete and correct and, if this is not the case, that they can take the necessary measures to correct the gaps.
in writing. - i support the proposal for a regulation requiring the registration of the data of any payer or payee who makes or receives a transfer of funds of more than eur 1[nbsp ]000 both within the european union and between the union and other countries. the data recorded will help national and european authorities to identify money laundering attempts through transfers of funds more quickly and easily. between 2008 and 2010, an average of 15[nbsp ]000 money laundering cases were recorded at union level. of these, only an average of 3[nbsp ]000 natural or legal persons were convicted by a court decision in the same period. access to a complete and transparent database of all money transfers at union level will increase the efficiency of authorities in detecting, investigating and punishing money laundering. i call on the european commission to monitor the urgent application of the new regulation in all the funds transfer systems already in place in the european union, in order to increase the transparency of financial transfers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds. the regulation on transfers of funds lays down rules requiring payment service providers to transmit information on the payer throughout the payment chain for the purposes of preventing, investigating and detecting money laundering and terrorist financing. considers it important to improve traceability by imposing key requirements such as the inclusion of information on the beneficiary of the payment; as regards the scope of the regulation will be subject to the provisions of the regulation if used for the transfer of funds from one person to another and credit or debit cards, mobile phone or any other digital or it device; as regards the obligations of the payment service provider towards the beneficiary of the payment, to impose a requirement that the identity of the beneficiary (if not previously identified) must be verified in the case of payments from outside the eu with a value of over eur 1[nbsp000]; align the data protection requirements for the retention of information with the standards of the international financial action task force.
in writing. - i supported this report which i consider extremely important from many points of view. the financial crisis has taught us some hard lessons, but some extremely useful ones, i might add. i think the most important phenomenon that we've seen in the last few years is this revolution of transparency that we can see in the financial and banking sector. we have undertaken a series of tough policies against tax havens, money laundering and all types of financial fraud, and reforms must continue. although we have strict legislation and a specialised authority in this area, the crime of money laundering is a common practice in my country too. in the first half of 2013, the national office for the prevention and combating of money laundering suspended financial operations of almost eur 10 million. last but not least, we are talking about a fight that must be waged first at national level and then consolidated at european level.
in writing. - i welcome the vote on this report, as the new directive aims to improve the current framework to prevent the transformation of funds obtained from criminal activities into legitimate funds through the financial system. the commission proposal is drawn up to follow its review of the implementation of the current directive and to reflect changes to the non-binding recommendations issued by the international financial action task force. the rapporteurs made a number of improvements to this proposal. first, they suggest improving trade registers - it is essential in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, identifying the beneficial owner of commercial activities or commercial transactions. secondly, the rapporteurs support the eu-wide risk assessment of money laundering in order to achieve an optimal allocation of resources. third, they propose that the approach be based on prevention and should be precise and proportionate and should not be a system of generalized control of the entire population.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to implement a directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. the aim of this directive is to improve the current framework to prevent the financial system from being used for the conversion of proceeds of criminal activities into lawful funds. the new rules adopted by parliament and advocated by the socialist and democratic group will make it possible to strengthen the fight against money laundering, in particular by creating a public register of business owners in the european union. these new rules, which still need to be adopted by the member states, will extend the scope of existing legislation to include new sectors, such as the gambling sector. money laundering, with an estimated turnover of almost €600 billion a year, is often linked to major crime, terrorism, racketeering, corruption and human trafficking. it is also the cause of colossal losses for european tax regimes, and that is why it must be fought as vigorously as possible.
in writing. - according to the international monetary fund, money laundering is a widespread phenomenon, estimated at 5% of world gdp. this is why the current legal framework to prevent the proceeds of criminal activities from being 'legitimated' through the financial system needs to be improved. i therefore believe that action is needed to improve the business register system and to carefully review the risk of recycling at eu level. criminal activities undermine the integrity of the financial sector, cause governments to lose revenue, hinder competition and have a negative impact on the proper functioning of markets. for these reasons i welcome the adoption of the report today.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption of the proposal for a directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing; in view of the scale of money laundering, estimated at 5% of world gdp, i consider that the legal framework in force under directive 2006/70/ec needs to be improved. by registering the owners of companies and investment funds in public registers, we can prevent money laundering through the financial system, for example by hiding criminals behind secret accounts and offshore companies. the impact of the directive is all the greater as the registers will be interconnected and publicly available. they also support the legal demand that banks, auditors, lawyers, real estate agents and casinos be more vigilant about suspicious transactions of their customers. last but not least, i believe it is useful to extend the rules on politically exposed persons, whose positions expose them to acts of corruption, to politically exposed persons at the domestic level, such as persons appointed to prominent public office, such as head of state, member of the government, supreme court judge and member of parliament.
in writing. - we need to have adequate means and tools to prevent criminals from placing funds from illicit activities in the financial system. according to the un, money laundering accounts for 2.7% of global gdp, or about $1,600 billion in 2009 alone. combating fraudulent use of the financial system and money laundering is a priority. financial transfers must be made in a transparent way, and for this we need trade registers to which the real beneficiaries are entered. for greater efficiency, registers need to be interconnected and accessible to authorities so that they can check who is benefiting from commercial transactions. the new rules will improve transparency and provide a better overview of financial transactions, making it harder for dirty money to move from one account to another.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. overcoming barriers within the internal market not only facilitates the creation or growth of businesses that operate legally within the eu, but can also provide increased opportunities for money laundering and terrorist financing. this proposal includes and repeals directive 2006/70/ec laying down implementing measures for directive 2005/60/ec, thus improving the comprehensibility and accessibility of the legislative framework on anti-money laundering (aml) for all interested parties. the main changes are: extension of the scope of the directive: two main changes to the scope are proposed: (a) lowering the threshold for high value merchants making cash payments from eur 15[nbsp ]000 to eur 7[nbsp ]500, (b) the scope of the directive includes 'gambling service providers'. the current directive, as well as the revised fatf recommendations, require that only casinos be included in the scope of the legislation on anti-money laundering/combating terrorist financing. beneficiary information: the revised directive proposes new measures to make beneciary information clearer and more accessible.
in writing. - financing operations designed to complement and support the union's external policies clearly carry a significantly higher risk than locally-developed operations. hence the need to ensure a higher level of security for these external credit operations. the bank's capital needs to be increased to the extent necessary to ensure that the bank's capital needs are met. another important aspect is that all eib investments must be properly aligned with the development strategies developed by the countries concerned. on another note, i would like to stress that the eib must stop paying loans to projects that are the subject of national or european corruption investigations.
in writing. - the eib's union external action guarantee effectively combines eu budgetary funds and own resources to achieve the 2020 external policy objectives. the objective is to focus the eib's mandate on beneficiaries for whom the use of the guarantee would bring greater added value and would gradually eliminate environmentally and economically harmful subsidies. the commission proposal therefore contains important elements concerning the general principles guiding the union's external action, information obligations, the need to assess the effects on development and public participation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision to grant an eu guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) for losses resulting from operations supporting investment projects outside the european union. the financing of the eib guarantee for the period 2014-2020 is a necessary condition for the optimal implementation of the european union's external policy and of eib investment projects in developing countries. the eur 27 billion guarantee, together with the optional amount of eur 3 billion that can be mobilised, should not become an objective in itself but should remain the ceiling for eib financing under the eu guarantee. i also believe it is very important that the european investment bank provides technical assistance to beneficiaries to prepare and implement projects, to strengthen local capacities and to encourage economic growth. the eib's technical assistance should be complementary to that provided by other eu bodies. they also believe that eib investments should be aligned with the development strategies developed by the countries concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) against losses resulting from financing operations supporting investment projects outside the union. the eu guarantee shall be granted as a comprehensive guarantee for payments due to, but not received by, the eib in respect of loans, loan guarantees and capital market loan instruments granted or issued for the benefit of eib investment projects, which are granted or issued by the eib for the benefit of investment projects carried out in eligible countries in accordance with the eib's own rules and procedures, including the eib's statement of social and environmental principles and standards, and in support of the relevant union foreign policy objectives, where eib financing has been granted in accordance with a signed agreement which has neither expired nor been cancelled. the eu guarantee shall cover eib financing operations signed during the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the maximum ceiling of eib financing operations covered by the eu guarantee for the period 2014-2020 shall not exceed eur 30[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000;
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because the conservation of biological diversity must remain an important objective of the eu, especially in the context of the strategy we have undertaken and through which we aim to avoid the loss of biodiversity worldwide by 2020. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy. in another sense, genetic resources play a particularly important role for food and agriculture, and therefore ultimately for our food security.
in writing. - genetic resources play a significant role in the development and implementation of appropriate international strategies for restoring degraded ecosystems and recovering threatened species. genetic resources must be kept in situ and used sustainably, and the benefits arising from their use must be distributed fairly and equitably. benefit-sharing needs to be considered, as biodiversity-rich developing countries dominate the provision of genetic resources, while the majority of users are in developed countries. i believe that equitable access to benefit-sharing can contribute to poverty eradication and environmental conservation, thereby leading to progress towards the achievement of the millennium development goals, as recognised in the preamble to the nagoya protocol. today's vote ensures that european policy is brought as close as possible to the spirit and letter of this international treaty and that the mechanisms for the effective implementation of this protocol are strengthened. at the same time, we ensure that the european union maintains its leadership role in current and future international negotiations by promoting a progressive stance that can meet the challenges of conserving biodiversity and its sustainable use.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use in the union. the proposal for a regulation lays down rules governing access to and benefit-sharing from genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources in accordance with the provisions of the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization to the convention on biological diversity (nagoya protocol). the nagoya protocol is a new international treaty, adopted on 29 october 2010 by consensus of the 193 parties to the convention on biological diversity (cbd). it applies to genetic resources over which states exercise sovereign rights and to traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources to which access is obtained after the entry into force of the nagoya protocol for the union. it shall also apply to benefits arising from the use of such genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources. it does not apply to genetic resources for which access and benefit-sharing are regulated by a specialised international instrument to which the union is a party.
in writing. - i voted for the legislative resolution. the whole package on vehicle safety is also extremely important for european road traffic. a well-maintained motor vehicle that meets all safety requirements is less likely to cause a road accident. regular roadworthiness tests are perhaps one of the most important precautions we can take to ensure the safety of both drivers and all road users involved. the technical compliance of motor vehicles on european roads must therefore be treated with the utmost seriousness and those who ignore these obligations must be severely sanctioned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that a minimum standard is needed for the periodic technical inspection of motor vehicles and trailers. taking into account the large number of vehicles on the roads in the union, it is necessary to regulate in such a way as to ensure adequate safety of road users. the introduction of scooters and motorcycles into the mandatory minimum inspection system is to be welcomed. this range of vehicles is increasingly common in traffic and any defect poses a maximum risk to both the driver and other road users. the re-registration of vehicles in other countries will also be much easier as the issued roadworthiness certificates will be recognised on a reciprocal basis in all member states.
in writing. - i voted for the directive on the periodic roadworthiness test of motor vehicles and their trailers and repealing directive[nbsp ]2009/40/ec. this directive establishes minimum requirements for the system of periodic roadworthiness tests for vehicles on public roads. this applies to vehicles with a design speed exceeding 25[nbsp ]km/h and belonging to a certain category of vehicles (category m1; m2 and m3, n1; n2; n3; o3 and o4). member states may introduce additional national requirements on roadworthiness tests for vehicles registered in their territory which are not covered by this directive. each member state shall ensure that vehicles registered in its territory are inspected regularly in accordance with this directive in inspection centres authorised by the member state of registration of those vehicles. technical inspections shall be carried out by the member state in which the vehicle is registered, by a public body empowered to do so by that member state or by bodies or institutions designated and supervised by that member state, including authorised private bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which will help to improve the mobility of european car owners, but also to facilitate cross-border sales. the measures relating to the registration procedure will also ensure that vehicles which pose an immediate risk to road safety are not used in traffic. the benefits of such harmonization do not stop there. a particular case is, for example, a change of vehicle owner or a re-registration of a vehicle in another member state. in this situation, it is evident that the technical conditions of the vehicle are not changed. it is therefore natural that the valid vehicle inspection certificate should be recognised and mentioned on the new registration certificate.
in writing. - i voted for this report because this legislative proposal improves the application of the vehicle inspection and roadworthiness regime, in particular where the technical condition of a vehicle creates an imminent risk to road safety, through measures such as temporary withdrawal or permanent cancellation of the vehicle's registration certificate. the document states that each member state is obliged to register for the first time any vehicle that has received european type-approval, on the basis of the 'certificate of conformity' issued by the vehicle manufacturer. this registration is the official authorisation for the use of a motor vehicle in traffic. compared to the existing documents, the current legislation provides for more precise definitions of the place of registration and introduces the possibility of withdrawal or cancellation of the 'registration certificate'. the certificate shall be withdrawn from motor vehicles which do not meet the standard road safety conditions and returned to the owner after passing another roadworthiness test. for motor vehicles to be registered, the 'registration certificate' shall be automatically cancelled. with regard to registrations in different member states, a motor vehicle re-registered in another country results in the automatic cancellation of the original registration in the member state in which it was originally registered.
in writing. - i voted to amend council directive 1999/37/ec on the registration documents for vehicles. the technical inspection is a component part of a wider regime which ensures that vehicles are maintained in a safe and environmentally acceptable condition during their use. that regime should provide for periodic roadworthiness tests and roadworthiness tests of vehicles used in commercial road transport activities, as well as provisions on a vehicle registration procedure to allow the suspension of the authorisation to use in road traffic a vehicle which constitutes an immediate risk to road safety. this directive should not prevent a member state from considering the electronic database managed by its competent authorities as the main source of information relating to a vehicle registered in its territory. member states should be able to use an electronic network including data from national electronic databases to facilitate the exchange of information. where a roadworthiness test has revealed dangerous deficiencies and the authorisation to use a vehicle in traffic has been suspended, the suspension should be recorded until the vehicle passes a new roadworthiness test.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because road safety on european roads needs to be improved, with over 5 people dying every day in accidents caused by technical problems. vehicle and roadworthiness tests are fundamental in this respect, as they are the only way to guarantee the compatibility of vehicles with traffic on public roads. we are talking about measures that already exist, but which have been improved and harmonised so that vehicles that pose an immediate threat to road safety are gradually but definitively removed from traffic.
in writing. - in 2010, the european commission adopted strategic amendments for road safety and to achieve the target of reducing the number of road deaths by 50% between 2010 and 2020. the security of citizens has been one of the priorities which has guided the procedures and negotiations of recent years. to this end, work has been done to improve the level of harmonisation of european legislation, to increase the number and quality of roadworthiness tests and inspections, and to establish a european electronic platform for the exchange of this information. today's vote was in favour of improving the controls on commercial vehicles in the eu to ensure the safety of all european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles. i believe that harmonising union legislation on vehicle safety testing would increase the safety of road users and actively contribute to the commission's announced target of reducing accidents in the european union by 50% between 2010 and 2020. i agree with the introduction of vehicles under 3,5 tonnes under traffic controls because according to statistics, this category of vehicles has not seen a decrease in the number of road accidents. due to its legal status, this category of vehicles is used intensively, which makes it subject to more pronounced wear in a shorter period of time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles circulating in the union and repealing directive 2000/30/ec. a number of technical standards and requirements relating to vehicle safety and environmental characteristics have been adopted in the union. it is necessary to ensure, by means of a regime of technical checks in unplanned traffic, that vehicles remain in conformity with the technical rules applicable to traffic on public roads. in order to minimise the time lost by businesses and drivers and to increase the overall efficiency of traffic controls, the performance of technical traffic controls should be encouraged alongside controls to verify compliance with social legislation in the field of road transport. this directive develops the existing regime on technical roadside inspections, updates the technical requirements of directive 2000/30/ec and includes the rules contained in commission recommendation 2010/379/eu. directive 2000/30/ec should therefore be repealed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that rail transport has untapped potential for development in the european union, especially in the new member states. therefore, the production of higher quality statistics could be the basis for improving the quality of services in this field. at the same time, reporting on accidents and their causes could reduce the risk of possible railway disasters. the integrated approach must prevail and the exchange of experience between member states is very useful in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the measures proposed by this directive constitute an important new step towards a public administration that does not involve paper-based documentation. this means, on the one hand, lower costs and, on the other, time savings. interoperability between systems encourages businesses to engage in cross-border public procurement, thus increasing competition and strengthening the single market as a whole. this will stimulate entrepreneurship, especially smes, leading to job creation and economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on electronic invoicing, which will certainly be a major step forward in the transparency of public procurement procedures, with predictable effects on the successful implementation of projects financed by european funds. this new system will bring more integration to the single market by encouraging competitiveness in cross-border auctions. by drawing up european standards in the field of electronic invoicing that are easy to understand and implement, the european union could eliminate the problems of exchanging invoices between member states, thus reducing complexity and legal uncertainty for businesses. moreover, studies show that e-invoicing would reduce public sector costs by eur 2.3 billion, which could be directed to other areas of high importance to european citizens, such as health or education.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on electronic invoicing in public procurement. according to the adopted directive, this applies to electronic invoices issued as a result of the execution of contracts to which the public procurement directives apply. i am of the opinion that the european standard on electronic invoicing should meet at least the following criteria: be technologically neutral, be compatible with the relevant international standards on electronic invoicing, take into account the need to protect personal data, allow for the creation of practical, user-friendly, flexible and cost-effective electronic invoicing systems, take into account the special needs of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as regional and local contracting authorities and contracting entities, and be suitable for use in business-to-business commercial transactions. according to the adopted directive, the main elements of an electronic invoice will be, inter alia: (a) process and invoice identifiers; (b) invoice period; (c) information about the seller; (d) information about the buyer; (e) information about the payee; (f) information about the tax representative of the seller; (g) the reference to the contract; (h) details of the delivery; (i) payment instructions; (j) information about credits or debits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, in order to optimise and make agricultural production more efficient, precision is needed in carrying out structural surveys of agricultural land. the existence of an up-to-date database on the agricultural capacity of the member states is necessary both from a statistical point of view and to calculate the allocations per hectare as efficiently as possible. this avoids possible errors or even fraud, thus saving european taxpayers money. i would point out again that in the case of romania there are large differences in the hectare allocations compared to the old member states.
in writing. - the development of the european agri-environment policy within the framework of the common agricultural policy requires adequate information on agricultural production methods and relevant statistical data on the different agricultural production methods at the level of individual farms in the member states. as such, it is important to have comparable statistics from all member states on the structure of agricultural holdings. i support the derogation allowing member states to carry out structural surveys in agriculture by 2016 on the structure of agricultural holdings, which are less costly and can be carried out more quickly, precisely in order to benefit from the necessary data in a timely manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1166/2008 on structural surveys in agriculture and the survey on agricultural production methods as regards the financial framework for the period 2014-2018. regulation (ec) no 1166/2008 provides that member states are to carry out structural surveys in agriculture in 2010, 2013 and 2016. member states shall receive a financial contribution from the union of up to 75% to cover the cost of carrying out those surveys, subject to certain fixed maximum amounts. to carry out structural surveys in agriculture and to comply with union information requirements, considerable funds are required from the member states and the union. in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1166/2008, the amount for the period 2014-2018 is to be fixed by the budgetary and legislative authority, on a proposal from the commission, on the basis of the new financial framework for the period starting in 2014. the financial envelope for the implementation of the 2016 structural surveys in agriculture, including the appropriations necessary for the management, maintenance and development of the database systems used within the commission for processing the data provided by the member states in accordance with this regulation, shall be eur 20[nbsp ]650[nbsp ]000 for the period 2014-2018.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a regulation laying down the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products, as it ensures that the trade arrangements for processed agricultural products comply with the union's obligations concerning the gradual reduction or elimination of import duties and export subsidies and those concerning the opening and adjustment of tariff quotas resulting from world trade organisation agreements and bilateral agreements. this creates a sound legal framework for the management of reduced import duties and quotas as provided for in free trade agreements (ftas) and for the management of the export refund regime. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it needed to be aligned with the new requirements arising from articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the trade regime applicable to goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products has a direct impact on food safety and, consequently, on the confidence of european consumers in the products purchased. the updating of the annexes to the regulation, which contain the lists of products subject to the rigors of this act, is still to be done by the commission and parliament will be informed accordingly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation laying down the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products. until 31 december 2013, the main instrument of the common agricultural policy (cap) provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) was regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single cmo regulation). in the framework of the cap reform, regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 was replaced with effect from 1 january 2014 by regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. regulations (ec) no 1216/2009 and (ec) no 614/2009 should be adapted to take account of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 in order to maintain the consistency of the trade regime with third countries for agricultural products on the one hand and for goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products on the other. certain agricultural products are used to produce both processed agricultural products and goods not listed in annex i to the tfeu. the regulation adopted lays down the trade arrangements applicable to imports of processed agricultural products and exports of goods not included in annex i and of agricultural products incorporated in those goods not included in annex i.
in writing. - the european investment bank has a particularly important role as it complements other sources of investment by replacing or correcting market gaps. in romania, the eib has been operating for 14 years and its lending operations are worth over eur 9 billion. the loans complemented public and private investments in transport, telecommunications, energy or environmental infrastructure. through loans to financial intermediaries, eur 45 million came to romania in 2012 to support local smes. in the future, i believe that the eib should focus its financing on projects that make a significant contribution to economic growth. and creating long-term jobs and generating a lasting and visible impact on the real economy must be a priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report 2012 of the european investment bank (eib). i consider it important that the eib supports the main drivers of the europe 2020 growth and jobs targets, such as infrastructure contributing to growth, cutting-edge innovation and competitiveness. they support the need to ensure that the eib maintains its aaa credit rating in order to maintain its access to international capital markets under the best possible financing conditions, which subsequently has a positive impact on the life cycle of projects and on the parties involved. we call on the eib to maintain its targets for additional activity and to unlock eur 180 billion for additional investment in the eu. we call on the eib to continue to support the eu's long-term priorities on economic and social cohesion, growth and employment, environmental sustainability, climate action and resource efficiency by continuing to develop new financial and non-financial instruments to address both short-term market inefficiencies and longer-term structural gaps in the eu economy.
in writing. - i didn't back up that report. under the guise of a perfectly legitimate title, it hides a very subjective ideological text with absurd demands and accusations that are often unfounded. today's negative vote does not mean that this parliament is opposed to gender equality, on the contrary. but they should certainly oppose such texts. on another note, as i have demonstrated on numerous occasions, i am a strong supporter of women's rights with one caveat. discussions and measures to promote gender equality must not turn into a form of positive discrimination. on another note, i'd like to talk about a vicious circle that surrounds so many women and that requires increased attention. i am referring to the unemployment rate among women in the union, correlated with the inability to find a work-life balance. as a new mom, my return to work was an easy and natural one. i want all women to have this chance and no woman to be put in the position of having to choose between a child and a job.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be a useful one, taking stock of how equality between women and men in the eu area has worked or not in 2012. the report highlighted the perennial failures of this principle, which should govern the world in general and the eu in particular, as it is a right enshrined in the eu treaty. the report by the european parliament's commission finds that inequality between women and men persists in most areas in 2012 and that substantial efforts are needed to reduce these inequalities. the ep plenary rejected the report: 298 votes were against and 289 for equality between women and men. this vote, which i consider emblematic of the state of women's rights in the eu, is one that leads to the idea that none of the european documents invoked in the preamble of the report, starting with the eu treaty, are functional, are obsolete in terms of gender equality. and as long as gender equality is a "separate issue" and not considered a fundamental human right, we will not solve any of the specific gender inequality issues that will persist after the may 2014 elections.
in writing. - i voted for the report on equality between women and men. although women represent almost half of the eu's workforce and more than half of university graduates, there are still many inequalities between women and men, both in terms of women's rights as human rights, career prospects, employment and wage conditions, access to education and health services, especially in rural areas, but also in terms of participation in the economy and decision-making processes, and in terms of political representation. i hope that, despite the rejection of the report, member states will include a gender perspective in their cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 in order to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and at eu level this principle will be included in all union and member state policies, to allow for sustainable, equitable and inclusive equality conditions for men and women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which summarises a series of proposals aimed at promoting the right of women in the eu to work, the elimination of wage discrimination against them, their right to combine work and motherhood without being penalized for it, and an adequate level of social protection. as a result of the crisis and austerity measures, millions of women in eu countries face unemployment, precarious jobs and discrimination in pay. women are more likely than men to work on part-time, fixed-term or temporary contracts, and these contracts offer much less social protection. the gender pay gap is reflected in living standards and, in the long term, pensions, which creates a higher risk of poverty for women than for men. thus, 26% of women are considered to be at risk of poverty in the eu. more effective action is also needed to prevent the root causes of poverty, social exclusion and the rise of prostitution and trafficking in women and children, as well as increased funding for organisations and institutions that provide support to women victims of violence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on equality between women and men in the european union 2012. i voted for member states to invest in affordable and high-quality childcare facilities for the sick, disabled, dependants, elderly and others, ensuring that they are flexible and compatible with full-time working hours and accessible so that as many people as possible can combine work, family and private life. i voted for the council to unblock the adoption of the directive amending directive 92/85/eec on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding. i voted in favour of requiring member states to guarantee decent wages and pensions, to reduce the gender pay and pension gap, to create better quality jobs for women, and to provide them with high quality public services and better social protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it deals with the solutions discussed over the last few years in response to the causes of the financial crisis. the clarifications requested from the commission in relation to the european system of financial supervision are particularly useful. in addition, every aspect of the financial crisis experience needs to be harnessed and used as a basis for identifying a set of solutions. and as has been discussed many times, supervisory mechanisms should not only focus on the supervision of individual entities but also on the stability of the financial system as a whole. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to one aspect: mandatory financial contributions by member states are contrary to the independence of the european supervisory authorities and may undermine the trust placed in them.
in writing. - i support the review report of the european system of financial supervision and, by implication, of the european systemic risk board (esrb), which has the role of monitoring the financial situation of the member states as a whole, in order to protect the european union from a new financial crisis. the financial analysis for 2012 shows that the debt-to-income ratio varies with large differences between member states. in denmark the ratio is 266%, while in slovenia it drops to 46%. the average debt-to-income ratio for the euro area member states is 98%, but the average for all member states for 2012 cannot be accurately calculated due to the lack of data for some countries. i call on the european commission to propose to the european parliament, by 1[nbsp ]july[nbsp ]2014, new legislation to make it easier for the esrb to collect the financial data of the member states and to have the authority to standardise the debt-to-income ratio supervisory system at european union level.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution with recommendations to the commission on the review of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). the financial crisis has demonstrated that poor risk management and inefficient, uneven and fragmented supervision of financial markets have contributed to financial instability and insufficient consumer protection in financial services. in addition, legislation on financial markets, financial services and financial products is highly fragmented and the multitude of legal texts generates gaps, duplication of reporting obligations, institutional divergences and overlapping rules, which can have undesirable consequences and negative effects on the real economy. the european parliament has strongly advocated the creation of european supervisory authorities (esas), has conferred more coordination and direct supervisory powers on esas, and considers that they are key actors in creating more stable and secure financial markets and that the union needs stronger and better coordinated supervision at union level. we call on the commission to submit, by 1[nbsp ]july[nbsp ]2014, legislative proposals for the revision of regulations (eu) no 1092/2010, 1093/2010, 1094/2010, 1095/2010 and 1096/2010 following the detailed recommendations set out in the annex to the report, based on the experience gained since the establishment of the esas and an in-depth analysis of the legal basis and alternatives available to article 114 tfeu, including recent case law.
in writing. - i didn't back up that report. i too believe that transparency of the european decision-making process is one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the union and that our citizens have the right to be informed about how european legislation is evolving. this is all the more important as 60-70% of the national regulations in the member states originate in brussels. however, i must point out that there are certain areas where stricter procedures and limited access to information are needed. for example, documents relating to common foreign and security policy issues must be subject to special public access procedures. i cannot therefore support those provisions of the report which call for unfettered access to all types of community documents, regardless of the consequences.
in writing. - transparency is essential for a true union of citizens, where they can participate fully in the democratic process. this is why the eu must take further steps to increase the transparency of its administration and its legislative process. today, with the help of new technologies, there are many interesting new initiatives to improve the understanding and transparency of the eu institutions, and these are the ones that must be focused on to safeguard the interests of citizens, the fight against corruption and the legitimacy of the political system and legislation of the union.
in writing. - i support transparency in the union's activities. it is important to give citizens, journalists and civil society the opportunity to follow the legislative process, to check decisions taken in the eu institutions and bodies and to comment. according to a report published by the european commission, in 2010 there were 6[nbsp ]127 requests for access to documents that were not public. at least one in four applications came from people in academia. in 1[nbsp ]100 cases (18%), the commission refused access or only granted partial access to the requested documents, citing the protection of the internal decision-making process. transparency should be the rule in public access to documents, not the exception. i stress once again that we must win the trust of european citizens and give them access to information on the work of the european institutions. let us not forget that the european institutions exist to serve the citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on public access to documents under rule 104 (7) of the rules of procedure for the years 2011-2013. article 15 tfeu establishes an institutional framework for the institutional transparency of the european union and provides for the fundamental right of access to documents of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union for citizens of the union and for any natural or legal person domiciled in a member state. this right should be exercised in accordance with the general principles and within the limits laid down by the regulations adopted by parliament and the council. we support the need to strike an appropriate balance between transparency and data protection, as clearly indicated by the case law in the bavarian lager case, and stress that data protection should not be 'diverted', in particular to cover conflicts of interest or undue influence in the context of eu administration and decision-making. the judgment of the court of justice in the bavarian lager case is based on the current wording of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 and does not preclude its amendment, which is necessary and urgent, in particular following the unequivocal proclamation of the right of access to documents under the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, as vice-president of the committee on petitions, i can say that petitions are one of the most democratic ways for citizens to raise their concerns and demand solutions. the committee i sit on is perhaps the most direct link parliament has with its constituents. i must point out, however, that too often the debates in peti have been used to transfer internal political struggles to the european parliament. this was done, unfortunately, at the expense of our citizens, who really believed that some of the members of the committee, especially the romanians from the socialist group, wanted to solve their problems. whether it's shale gas exploration or gold mining, romanian socialists have fiercely criticized the former right-wing governments in the peti debates, but later, when they came to power, they took on and even supported the projects started by the previous governments.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2013. the lisbon treaty almost doubled the european parliament's legislative powers and strengthened its relative power vis-à-vis the other european institutions. the committee on petitions was mainly concerned with the consolidation of the charter of fundamental rights in the treaty and the final approval of the new mechanism for european participation european citizens' initiative. we welcome the implementation of the european citizens' initiative (eci) on 1 april 2012, as well as the registration of the first eci dedicated to youth policies in europe fellowship 2020, and the recent highly successful eci dedicated to the right to water. the eci is the first instrument of transnational participatory democracy and will give citizens the opportunity to take an active part in the development of european policies and legislation. we stress the need for a periodic evaluation of the state of european citizens' initiatives in order to improve the working procedure while limiting bureaucracy and other obstacles. we underline the importance of the role of the solvit network, which regularly identifies and resolves problems related to the transposition of internal market legislation, and call for the strengthening of this instrument.
madam president, by drawing up, debating and approving this report, the european parliament is marking the interest of its members in the field of horticulture, which represents one fifth of the total value of agricultural production in the european union. unfortunately, not all member states are able to exploit their horticultural potential to the full. in romania, for example, fruit and vegetable imports exceed 60-70%, in many cases from outside the european union. in this context, i would like to highlight some of the points made in the report by the committee on agriculture - firstly, the need to promote local and regional markets, short supply chains, a matter directly linked to investment and support for young people. consumers want fresh, local produce. support for small producers by member states in the framework of the european agricultural policy must therefore be a real priority. support for organic farming should also be a priority. the organic fruit and vegetables sector is the fastest growing organic sector on the eu market, and therefore an important source of income for producers and a source of quality products for consumers.
in writing. - the european union's horticultural sector needs to be promoted and supported at european level because of its importance for the european economy. moreover, efforts by those involved in the sector to compete more effectively on the global market through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, climate change adaptation and mitigation, and trade enhancement measures, should be facilitated. i believe that the european executive needs to create identical access conditions for all eu market participants in terms of marketing standards, designation of origin, etc., and to ensure that these are respected by appropriate controls, in order to avoid any form of distortion of competition. it is necessary for the member states and the european commission to support the development of local fruit and vegetable markets and short supply chains that guarantee the supply of fresh produce, thus contributing both to the development of local economies and to ensuring a healthy lifestyle for european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the fertility of the soil, the diversity of the climate and the expertise of the growers are just some of romania's advantages in the field of horticulture. in terms of area under cultivation, we are ranked 6th in the union, with this agricultural sector constituting a traditional activity of great economic importance. for romania, horticulture has a huge potential to be exploited. i say this because, for example, almost a quarter of the union's production of green and yellow melons is provided by my country. last but not least, the regional production and marketing of fruit and vegetables contributes to the creation and maintenance of jobs in rural areas. the commission and the member states therefore have a duty to develop local markets and short supply chains, which guarantee the supply of fresh products to the population and bring undeniable economic benefits.
in writing. - with horticulture accounting for 18% of the total value of agricultural production in the european union, i believe that promoting entrepreneurship, with a focus on encouraging entrepreneurship for young people, is an important element and an employment opportunity in the field, especially as horticulture faces a shortage of skilled and competent workers, including seasonal staff. i believe that the agro-industry and the research community need to cooperate more closely to attract and train the next generation of researchers and to develop the existing workforce, but also to promote the sector properly to attract young people and the unemployed to this field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the european horticultural sector growth strategies. the eu is the world's largest producer of flowers, bulbs and potted plants (44% of world production), with the highest density per hectare. according to eurostat, between 2000 and 2010, the total production costs borne by eu farmers increased on average by almost 40%, while farm gate prices increased on average by less than 25%. the increase in production costs was almost 80% for synthetic fertilisers and soil improvers, almost 30% for seeds and planting material and almost 13% for plant protection products. we underline the importance of promoting the eu horticultural sector and facilitating its efforts to compete more effectively on the world market, through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, climate change adaptation and mitigation, as well as through measures to improve marketing and continuing efforts to eliminate the existing imbalance between operators and suppliers.
in writing. - torture is one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, leaving its mark not only on the tortured but also on their families, for which there is no justification whatsoever. it is worrying that torture still persists worldwide, although the absolute prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is an international norm enshrined in un conventions as well as in regional human rights conventions. the 2012 update of the eu guidelines on torture is an important step towards combating torture, but i would stress that more importance must be given to the effective implementation of these guidelines. i believe that the eu has a key position on the international stage in the fight against torture, which is why it is essential to continue to work towards strengthening the principle of zero tolerance for torture.
in writing. - i voted for the report. the fact that we have a discussion today about torture, even though it is banned worldwide, shows that without effective implementation, international conventions are worthless. torture is not just physical and psychological abuse of a person but becomes a means of intimidating society and gradually restricting fundamental freedoms. the victims of torture are often those who are fighting for fundamental rights, which in europe seem to us to be absolutely normal. i shall also cite the example of the report, that of north korea - which i think is the most telling and at the same time most revolting. there, beyond the nazi-type camps where political opponents are sent, a psychological intimidation of the entire population takes place. to exaggerate a little, we could say that the whole country is a camp for its population.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's proposal to require member states to develop their judicial systems to take account of the needs of children who have suffered torture and ill-treatment and to include free and confidential reporting mechanisms, including in detention centres, which allow children not only to claim their rights but also to report violations of those rights. i also support the proposal on the need for clear and firm eu emergency measures against online aggression and harassment and the websites that facilitate them.
in writing. - unfortunately, torture is still a reality in many parts of the world. the european parliament, in voting in favour of mrs de keyser's report, stressed that torture constituted one of the most serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with serious repercussions not only for individuals but also for their families. the report is divided into four parts and analyses, in particular, torture of children, the fight against torture in the eu's relations with third countries, the eu's action in international organisations and the credibility, consistency and coherence of european policy.
in writing. - in 2012, amnesty international reported that 112 countries across the world tortured their citizens. the eu is based on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. for this reason it is of the utmost importance for the eu to fight for the absolute prohibition of torture worldwide. international and humanitarian law such as the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment must be further promoted and respected. concrete actions at the european level must also be taken. provisions against torture in the european charter of human rights and the european charter must be fully enforced and additional efforts must be devoted to areas where their implementation has stalled. the action plan in cooperation with relevant stakeholders and civil society organizations requires to be further strengthened. it is crucial that policies against torture are consistent between member states, including ratification of all relevant treaties. eu member states must abide by the highest standards in order to set a positive example for the rest of the international community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the eradication of torture in the world given that torture still persists worldwide, although the absolute prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is a major international norm, enshrined in un conventions as well as in regional human rights conventions. the eradication of torture, ill-treatment, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment is an integral part of the eu's human rights policy, interdependent with other areas and instruments of eu action. we underline the need for the eu to address the use of the internet by adults and children for psychological torture of children and harassment via online social networks. despite the existence of the eu safer internet programme, the eu's response to the phenomenon of internet harassment has been inadequate. we point out the recent wave of incidents in which children have taken their own lives as a result of online bullying, as well as the continued existence of websites, hosted in member states, that have been directly or indirectly involved in these cases. we therefore stress the urgent need for clear and firm eu action against online aggression and harassment and the websites that facilitate them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because saudi arabia is one of the most stable countries in a region where social and political unrest seems to have become commonplace. that is why, in the current context of regional instability, a strong partnership between the union and saudi arabia is needed. however, this partnership also needs to address some issues, such as those related to respect for fundamental rights. of course, there are huge cultural differences between the two sides, and i don't think anyone is asking saudi arabia to copy the european model of political and social organization, but human rights are the same everywhere in the world and they have to be respected regardless of religion or culture. gender equality, religious tolerance, protection of minorities are things that our saudi partners need to improve a lot.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on saudi arabia, its relations with the eu and its role in the middle east and north africa. the kingdom of saudi arabia (ksa) is an influential political, economic and religious actor in the middle east and the islamic world, the world's leading oil producer, and a founding and leading member of the gulf cooperation council and the g-20. the kingdom of saudi arabia is also an important partner for the eu. we emphasise that the death penalty is applied in the sar for a number of offences and at least 24 people were executed in 2013, at least 80 people were executed in 2011 and a similar number in 2012. the saudi arabian authorities have also been known to carry out public executions in saudi arabia, which is illegal under international law. we call on the government of the kingdom of saudi arabia to honour its commitments to several human rights instruments, including the arab charter of human rights, the convention on the rights of the child, the convention against torture and the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, i would like to ask ms sargentini about the transfer of data of european citizens to third countries. i would like to ask you what you think about the need to revise the international agreements signed by the european union with third countries concerning the transfer or processing of personal data, such as the swift agreement or the passenger name register, so that these agreements concern the new regulatory framework that we are going to adopt these days?
i agree with the commission proposal that domestic data exchange should also be covered by the directive. although there may be some debate as to the scope of eu law, it is clear that domestic data exchange is key when it comes to data processing for the prevention of crime and fundamental rights of citizens. today's technological developments have also radically changed the protection of personal data. we are putting more and more data about ourselves online, and we are storing and using it on a scale never seen before. of course, we must have in mind the creation of a system that is favourable to the prevention and detection of crime, but we must remain strict in respect of the fundamental rights of citizens. i believe that europe should be a world leader in the protection of personal data and i hope that this regulation will reflect everything that europe is thinking about this issue today.
madam president, i support the need to adopt a legislative package on personal data protection, which ensures greater flexibility and reduced red tape for smes and a common set of rules for the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data. i support the need for explicit, informed and specific consent to the purpose of the processing by the data subject, through clear and positive action by the data subject. i consider it important that the notification of the personal data breach to the competent supervisory authority should take place for each personal data breach. i argued that these notifications should be made within a maximum of 72 hours from the moment the controller becomes aware of the personal data breach. i consider that both the controller and the processor to process personal data on behalf of the controller must be responsible for ensuring the security of the personal data processed and for the correct processing of the data.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work, and all my shadow colleagues for their contribution to this important report. i welcome the commission proposal and am convinced that in the future the union would benefit from an ample proposal aiming to create a european criminal justice area. establishing a european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) charged with the protection of eu financial interests is just the first step. however, this could be the ultimate test in terms of member states’ willingness to participate and engage in a project which could become a step forward in the europeanisation process of our legal systems. we must take note that, up to now, several member states have indicated their reluctance to participate in this measure, even though the idea of creating the eppo is quite old, was discussed years ago and has been included in the treaty. at the same time, this endeavour should equally involve both european legislators – the council and the european parliament. therefore, although the legal basis for the establishment of the office allows for a council decision, with the ep merely giving its consent, i strongly believe that the setting-up of the office through this procedure should not touch upon the fundamental rights of persons, where this house has co-legislative powers. the report we will vote on tomorrow reflects precisely this view and sends a strong message to the council. as long as we create union bodies with investigative and prosecutorial functions, we need to create the framework for guaranteeing the procedural rights and remedies of those investigated, in accordance with our own human rights legislation and jurisprudence. i am convinced that, more than ever, mutual trust, confidence and solidarity will be the principles to capitalise on if we are to continue the work we are initiating now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i would like to say that these discussions indeed took place some time ago. this is why it is possible, according to the treaty, to set up the office. i do not think that it will be conceived as a bureaucratic institution, because it will really act through the prosecutors in the member states. what i would very much like, instead, would be to see the co-legislative powers of the european parliament at work.
in writing. today, we witnessed the presentation of the most critical annual report on turkey since 2005 when the country was a candidate for accession to the european union. the report also contains positive aspects, including a note on trade with turkey. it is thus noted that turkey continues to be the eu's sixth largest trading partner and that the union is turkey's largest trading partner. if we have substantial trade with turkey, that is a positive thing, but we must not neglect certain trade issues which concern european farmers and others. firstly, the constant sabotage by turkey, under various pretexts, of exports of live sheep and sheep meat from romania. then there are turkey's toxic exports to the eu: more than half of the fruits and vegetables from turkey imported into the eu contain pesticides above the normal limit. last but not least, turkish poaching in the black sea, which has reached a worrying level and to which the commission has an inexplicable tolerance. given that these issues were not even mentioned, i believe that the annual report could have been even more critical than the form presented.
the reporter. - madam president, about 26000 flights a day, 600 million passengers every year, over 500000 jobs in airlines, in the air and on the ground, less than 100000 jobs in traffic control and administration, congested airports, routes still complicated, in particular because of traffic control based on national borders, member states' monopoly on traffic control, the last remaining in the union. this is a brief introduction to air transport in europe. when drafting legislation, you have to take into account all the actors involved in the field: people, companies, the administration. in this case, the benefit would be an airspace architecture based on business efficiency rather than borders and flight routes and, of course, direct flight routes. what would be the result? most importantly, 15 minutes of flight time less than the average flight time of 2 hours. the consequences: comfort for passengers, less fuel burned, less carbon dioxide emissions, lower costs, lower prices. this has tried to realise the concept of the single european sky through ses[nbsp ]i, ses[nbsp ]ii, sesii+ and, of course, through sesar. the implementation of those regulations has led to improvements in the work in the field: the performance scheme, the performance review body, the network manager. the safety of flights was not affected, delays were reduced, but the costs paid by airlines and therefore by passengers were not reduced. there is no progress on airspace remodelling, no operational fabs and insufficient progress on direct routes. the reasons are political and social. the administrations and trade unions in the member states are opposed for different reasons: privilege and unfounded fear of losing their jobs. the union has invested heavily in sesar, the future traffic control system. the industry has also invested in new technology. it would be a shame to implement it on the current airspace architecture. it would be an unjustified financial loss, considerable, public money, and it would not bring the expected benefits to passengers. the sesii+ regulation makes proposals to that effect. a coordinated implementation by a manager, a territorial distribution based on the efficiency of the service provided, the possibility to reorganise the airspace, the independence of the network manager, the performance review body and the national regulatory authorities, the efficiency of the provision of support services and a performance review body approved performance scheme. the main reason given by the opponents of the regulation, the mandatory separation of support services, was eliminated by the vote in the transport committee. a procedure already used by service providers was introduced: the evaluation of several offers. i see nothing wrong with these proposals. on the contrary, i see only measures that would lead to an efficient activity, for the benefit of all, but especially of those for whom this service is delivered, the passengers. the member states, or rather the administrations of the member states, do not share this view. in all the conversations, the subject was not the passenger, but the clerk and ground workers. i believe that a service should be modelled for the beneficiary and, in this case, it is the passenger who should benefit from safety, comfort and a fair price. i am extremely sorry that the two rotating presidencies, lithuania and greece, were not able to start the discussions in the council. for me, this situation shows that the member states know that if they talk, they reach an agreement. why would you do that? because there are no real, solid arguments against the sesii+ provisions.
mr president, i would stress the importance of implementing the single european sky, as it will have a positive role in reducing delays, increasing safety and reducing aviation's impact on the environment. the achievement of the single european sky would help growth, employment and competitiveness in europe, in particular by stimulating the demand for highly skilled jobs. however, i would point out that, in order to implement the single european sky, the social partners must be informed and consulted on all measures with important social implications. the safety of air transport must also be a top priority. unfortunately, the implementation of the single european sky is experiencing significant delays, in particular with regard to the performance targets and the implementation of the air functional blocks, which were to be ready by december 2012 and whose functionality would lead to better cooperation and integration of the provision of air navigation services.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, we have heard an interesting discussion today. the commission understands that some parts of its proposal may be difficult for individual stakeholders, but we need to keep focused on the good of the overall system. unless we maintain a world-class system, everyone will suffer – be it the workers, the passengers or the economy as a whole. as regards the independence of the supervisory authorities, we feel that this is the most important aspect of the proposal and are happy to see widespread support for it. we are similarly happy about the support for rationalising the institutional landscape and the regulatory system. on the other hand, the separation of support services remains an important prerequisite for insuring a level playing field when tenders are put out for support services. we regret the considerable watering-down of our proposal. regarding the idea of requiring the easa to accredit national authorities, the commission considered this an interesting concept. however, it would have far-reaching implications and would need a thorough impact assessment. it is therefore considered premature at this point but could certainly be examined in more detail in the future. in conclusion, i can say that we welcome parliament’s positive vote. now is the time to get moving and to stop the endless preparatory discussions. the european air traffic management system needs this upgrade, and we should not waste time in implementing it.
the reporter. - mr president, i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs for their collaboration and the work we have done together and i would also like to thank mr sassoli because the two reports are complementary and we have had a very good collaboration. i would first like to say to the commission that the impact of this report has not been reduced by the removal of the mandatory separation of support services. we could not support this proposal because, technically, i think it was very difficult to implement. secondly, we believe that the cost savings are not achieved by this separation, but by direct routes and a new architecture of space, which will lead to a reduction in flight time. as you have seen in the statements of my colleagues, the same situation is reflected: there is a reluctance on the part of the member states, a fear for the workplace and for the administration in general. the independence of national authorities, i believe, adds to the safety of flight and to the overall efficiency of work in this area. we have a saying in romania: you don't get away with what you're afraid of. i am absolutely convinced that the single european sky will eventually be where it belongs, for the benefit of all the players in this industry and above all for the benefit of the passengers who are the beneficiaries of this service.
mr president, i would stress the importance of revising the package travel legislation for millions of citizens and for the 1.8 million businesses in the tourism sector, which employ 5% of the total workforce. we need clear legislation so that those who buy package holidays benefit from appropriate measures in different circumstances. it is also important that all clauses in package travel contracts are clear, contain the coordinates of a contact point where the traveller can request information and support and lodge a complaint in relation to any non-compliance found on the spot. i regret that it is not mentioned that the telephone number must ensure the presence of an operator who will answer the call within 3 minutes, and not just a telephone robot. the amendments to this legislation will increase the quality of tourism services and increase the competitiveness of tourism businesses.
in writing. we all know that the internet has significantly changed consumer habits, and this applies also to booking holiday packages, which tourists buy very often online. the internet has opened the way to new business models, to a more varied range of offers, including dynamic package holidays, giving consumers more convenience in booking package holidays. but i firmly believe that the price to be paid for these advantages should be neither lack of consumer protection nor unfair competition. i therefore support updating and modernising the legislation, because only then can we guarantee consumer confidence and ensure conditions for fair competition. of course, the text we have before us today is a perfect one, but i believe it strikes a balance between consumer rights which have been significantly strengthened by the inclusion of linked travel packages and dynamic packages in the directive and the preservation of the competitiveness of operators in the tourism sector, a sector of particular importance to the european economy. i hope that the report will be supported by the whole of parliament and that in the autumn we will be able to resume work with the council so that this reform becomes a reality for consumers as soon as possible.
in writing. fluoride gases are the most persistent human-made greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. emissions of these gases have increased by 60% since 1990, while emissions of other greenhouse gases have been gradually reduced. it is very important to consider a phasing out of fluorinated gases that allows producers to adapt to new market conditions, to give them the time to produce viable alternatives. in this regard, it is important to encourage the development of environmentally friendly and safe technologies and alternatives with a low environmental impact at union level, while, of course, discouraging the use of those fluorinated gases with a high environmental impact. the agreement with the council is an important step in reducing greenhouse gas emissions by allowing equipment that already has less environmentally harmful substitutes to be banned from the market. it is a balanced arrangement, which allows, on the one hand, the achievement of the union's environmental objectives and, on the other hand, allows the industry to come up with feasible solutions in this direction.
i welcome the report by my colleague mrs bauer edit on the free movement of workers, which guarantees the exercise of rights by citizens of the european union who take up employment in the territory of another member state. [ french ] this document does not amend the services directive or the directives and provisions already in force within the union on freedom of movement and employment; it is intended only to simplify and facilitate their implementation. this is the last employment dossier in the current legislative cycle of the european parliament. it is particularly worthwhile to take account of and detail practical measures for implementing the regulation, but also to guarantee the enforcement of derived labour rights, such as the recognition of diplomas obtained in another eu member state, the avoidance of double taxation or the smooth exchange of information. the establishment and operation of european contact points will play a major role in this. member states should also pay greater attention to the side effects of increased mobility, as the current crisis has increased brain drain and the emigration of young people from the very regions and member states where the need to catch up with the union is greatest. the implementation of the directive could result in discrimination or obstacles to the exercise of the right to work or to remuneration for any union citizen or family member who moves to and takes up employment in another member state. member states should also ensure the mutual recognition of different legal relationships and the rights deriving from them, and the protection of the rights of workers. the scope of this regulation covers - without discrimination - not only permanent workers but also cross-border commuters and even service providers. i am very pleased that the report, on its first reading, concludes in a reassuring way the treatment of a number of sensitive issues which particularly concern the citizens of my country.
in writing. free movement of workers is one of the fundamental freedoms of eu citizens, giving every citizen the right to move freely to another member state to work and live in that state for that purpose. it shall also protect them against discrimination on grounds of nationality and against any unjustified obstacle to the exercise of that right, including double taxation, in respect of employment, remuneration and other working conditions, including dismissal, social and tax advantages, by ensuring equal treatment with nationals of the member state concerned, in accordance with national law or collective agreements. those rights should apply without discrimination to workers with a fixed-term contract, seasonal and frontier workers whose place of employment and residence are in different member states and to persons carrying out activities for the purpose of providing services. trade unions, associations, organisations or other relevant legal persons that may represent the legal or collective interests of workers should be entitled, in accordance with national law and practice, to take action on behalf of or in support of a victim, without prejudice to the procedural rules of national law on representation and defence before the courts.
in writing. in the context of the european council's discussion of the state of implementation of the country-specific recommendations addressed in the context of the european semester, a number of remarks are required, in particular as regards the way in which romania has fulfilled the requirements formulated by the commission. as regards health reform, no visible progress has been made. romanian doctors continue to leave the country, choosing to work in states that offer them a level of pay and decent working conditions. the national roma integration strategy is not being properly implemented, mainly because ongoing projects have not been approved on the basis of coherent cost-benefit analyses. european money is being spent, but not in an articulated way. the reform of the education system is stagnating, as evidenced by the catastrophic results of national examinations and their simulations. last but not least, the majority state-owned companies continue to be real 'holes' in the state budget, due to the governors' interests in not initiating a real reform of the way these companies operate and are administered. the conclusion is that, unfortunately, the commitments of the current romanian government were made only on paper, because in practice, things have not changed.
mr president, ukraine is a geo-strategic battlefield for russia and the west. to demonise russia is not a policy but an attempt to hide our lack of policy. in the long run the race of sanctions will be won by the competitor who is able to suffer the pains longer: would it be russia, as usual? everybody is keen to have the ukrainian strategic asset at his disposal, but nobody wants to undertake full responsibility towards ukraine. what remains, usually, is each side’s attempts to make ukraine unavailable for the other one. this is evil. the worst outcome would be the emergence of two ukraines hijacking each other; of new frozen conflicts which will pass on their evil consequences from one crisis to another, spilling over in the region. therefore we should negotiate, but not before ensuring equality of arms. together, with our money, we must send into ukraine our military peace-keeping forces on the ground. if crimea is lost – i do not know – let us at least rescue the rest. the eu needs courage, vision and strength to get a clear strategic deal with russia while defending ukraine’s legitimate aspirations.
mr. president, we're talking about russia invading ukraine, but moscow isn't just looking at crimea, and the methods used are pretty much the same. in february, i denounced the illegal referendum organized, with the encouragement of russia, in the gagauzia region of the republic of moldova. in crimea, something similar will be organized in a few days, which is right, after the russian soldiers have already arrived there. using plebiscite consultation outside of a constitutional framework to mark the will of a foreign power is a mockery of democracy. i do not think that under these circumstances we can consider russia a strategic partner of the union. the council must adopt very tough sanctions against putin. we have a duty to stop the russian aggressor from the kremlin, before he sends troops to the west of crimea.
mr president, the real test in the ukrainian case is whether russia keeps crimea or not. in 1994, ukraine voluntarily gave up its nuclear status against a guarantee of territorial integrity provided by three nuclear states, russia included. in the event that russia keeps crimea, other states will think twice when asked to give up their nuclear status. this will impact negatively on nuclear non-proliferation. secondly, european politics will be plunged into the 18th and 19th centuries, when turkey agreed to cede crimea to russia under specific conditions, and when russia had to give up the danube following defeat in the crimean war. consequently, while turkey could reclaim crimea, russia could again get access to the mouth of the danube, which would alter the status of the river. thirdly, and most importantly, it would mean that the european security system had failed and that a new one had to be re-negotiated with a more aggressive russia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because pakistan must be a factor of stability in a region where there is a lot of turmoil. pakistan is also an important partner of the union in efforts to combat terrorism, organised crime and nuclear proliferation. however, i too express concern at reports that pakistan may be exporting nuclear technology to third countries. such actions would endanger both regional and global stability, with serious repercussions on the nuclear non-proliferation commitment.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on pakistan's regional role and its political relations with the eu. pakistan is one of the largest recipients of eu humanitarian and development assistance and the eu is pakistan's largest export market. the eu and pakistan have recently chosen to deepen and expand bilateral relations, as reflected in the five-year engagement plan launched in february 2012 and the first eu-pakistan strategic dialogue held in june 2012. eu-pakistan relations need to deepen and broaden through the development of political dialogue, thus maintaining a relationship of mutual interest among equal partners. in this context, we welcome the adoption of the five-year engagement plan and the start of the eu-pakistan strategic dialogue, which reflects the increased importance of political and security cooperation, including on counter-terrorism, disarmament and non-proliferation policies, as well as migration, education and culture.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the defence of the european union against possible ballistic missile attacks is of particular importance. romania will host part of the nato anti-ballistic missile system, demonstrating the commitment to ensuring the protection of the entire region. i too support the objective of ensuring the full protection of all nato countries in europe by the end of this decade. however, i would like to draw attention, as does the report, to the risk that by reducing defence funding in the member states, vulnerabilities could be created that could be exploited by possible terrorist organisations and others.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on a missile shield for europe and its political and strategic implications. we stress that eu initiatives can contribute to strengthening cooperation between member states in the field of ballistic missile defence and to joint research and development. we believe that in the long term this cooperation could lead to an even stronger consolidation of the european defence industry. we argue that with the development and deployment of ballistic missile defence technologies, a new dynamic is emerging in the field of european security, which obliges member states to take into account the implications of ballistic missile defence for their security. the ballistic missile defence measures adopted by nato are designed and constructed to protect nato member states from potential ballistic missile attacks. we call on the vice-president of the commission/high representative to pursue a strategic partnership with nato, taking into account the issue of ballistic missile defence, which should result in the full coverage and protection of all eu member states, thus avoiding the situation where they are given different degrees of security in any respect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the eu-thailand free trade agreement could have a negative impact on the eu's fishing industry. thailand is the world's leading producer of canned tuna and one of the largest importers of fresh or chilled tuna. in the context of the negotiations on the free trade agreement, therefore, a solution must be found in which the european industry is not significantly affected by the new provisions. competition must not be distorted on the european market, especially as the economic crisis has affected european producers. a balanced solution is needed that takes into account both the concerns of the industry and the interests of european consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the current situation and future prospects of the european fisheries sector in the context of the eu-thailand free trade agreement. the european fisheries and processing industry is essential for the food supply of european citizens and for supporting life in the coastal areas that rely heavily on these activities. the survival of the sector will be jeopardised if the eu liberalises trade in fishery products with developing countries that want to export their products to the union's core market, especially if they are offered zero tariffs. we therefore call for the maintenance of the current customs tariffs for access to the eu market of thai fish and seafood preserves and preparations and therefore for the exclusion of the products concerned from the tariff reduction. we recommend long transition periods and partial liberalisation commitments, including quotas for fish and seafood preparations and preserves, in order to protect the competitiveness of the european tuna industry and maintain the sector's significant activity and social dimension within the eu. we call for reciprocity in market access and the elimination of all discrimination in services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the food culture is deteriorating more and more in the european union and the consequences of this are risks to the health of european citizens. those risks can develop into diseases and pathologies that entail high costs for both patients and public health systems in the member states. that's why i believe that nutrition education for our children is essential to prevent certain diseases and to ensure their normal development. school feeding programs are very important, and physical activity is also critical to the health of our children.
in writing. - it is worrying that even in developed countries, due to lack of culture and education, food has become a fundamental cause of disease and pathology, which generates extremely high costs for the health system. poor diet has dramatic health consequences, being the leading cause of obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, gastric diseases, and so on. food habits acquired in childhood can influence food preferences and food choices, as well as food preparation and consumption methods in adulthood. therefore, childhood is a key moment for taste education, and school plays an important role in making students discover the importance of food, as well as the diversity of products and gastronomy. with today's vote, we are ensuring that food and nutrition knowledge, culinary knowledge and culinary workshops, as well as food culture and gastronomy, will be introduced into the education systems of the member states. this will help to reinforce the concept of a healthy lifestyle based on a balanced diet among schoolchildren and will contribute to improving the health and well-being of the population in the long term.
in writing. - perhaps not coincidentally, the cuisine and culinary traditions of an eu member state are also included in the unesco world heritage list, demonstrating that gastronomy is a powerful cultural export for the eu and its member states. i support the proposal to support the initiatives of the member states and their regions to promote and preserve the territory, the landscape and the range of local, regional and national handicrafts products that make up the european gastronomic heritage. in addition, it will be beneficial for the union regions to promote local and dietary gastronomy in school and collective canteens in association with local producers, in order to preserve and enhance the regional gastronomic heritage, to stimulate local agriculture and to strengthen short circuits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european gastronomic heritage. i believe that an appropriate approach is needed to this problem, since from an educational point of view the health and well-being of the population is closely conditioned by the type of diet and the environment, and therefore by the methods used in agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry. from a cultural point of view, gastronomy is part of our identity, it is an essential element of the european cultural heritage and an essential part of the cultural heritage of each member state of the european union. i encourage the initiation of exchange of information and practice projects in the field of gastronomy and nutrition through programmes such as comenius or erasmus+, through which students and professionals participate in intercultural exchanges based on vocational training in the field of food and gastronomy.
in writing. - in today's society we face two worrisome situations related to nutrition. on the one hand, there are the poor countries, where the population does not have the means to eat well. on the other hand, we find that in rich countries the population is poorly fed, due to insufficient information on dangerous substances added to food, but also due to the lack of gastronomic culture. given the importance of proper nutrition for health, i support introducing nutrition courses in the school curriculum from an early age. i also support stricter control of the information conveyed to consumers through advertising. as a member of the committee on regional development, i appreciate the efforts made at european level to protect geographical indications and traditional products internationally, which help to preserve the rituals and customs of local and regional gastronomy. in this context, i would also like to recall the role of gastronomy as a form of cultural exchange and a means of encouraging tourism. in the light of the economic crisis, which has significantly affected disadvantaged groups and young people, i call for a reassessment of the role of school canteens, which provide balanced nutrition to pupils, thus allowing them to develop harmoniously and improve their school performance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the european gastronomic heritage: cultural and educational aspects. gastronomy is part of our identity and is an essential element of the european cultural heritage and an essential part of the cultural heritage of the member states. we call on member states to include in the education of children from an early age the study and sensory experience of food and knowledge of nutrition and healthy eating habits, including historical, geographical, cultural and empirical aspects, as a means of contributing to the improvement of the health and well-being of the population. we welcome the gastronomic education programmes in schools in certain member states and stress the importance of combining education with healthy eating. the school curriculum needs to be enriched with information on the gastronomic culture, in particular the local one, the process of preparation, production, preservation and distribution of food, its socio-cultural influences and consumer rights. we suggest that member states include in their educational programmes workshops based on the development of the senses, especially taste, combining information on the nutritional benefits of food and on the regional and national gastronomic heritage. we also suggest that european cities apply for the title of unesco city of food within the creative cities network.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because respect for privacy and the protection of personal data are fundamental rights of every european citizen, enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. in particular, in the light of the recent scandals concerning telephone tapping and access to electronic mailboxes, there was a need to strengthen legislation in this area. of course, we must not forget that in certain situations involving national security, exceptions to these fundamental principles are necessary. but we are talking about exceptions and exceptional situations here, because our objective must be to protect the privacy of european citizens. i want to welcome the introduction of minimum standards for data processing in the workplace. this will enable the employee to know from the moment he takes up a job what his rights are, whether his employer can check his e-mails or whether he can use the work phone for personal purposes.
in writing. - in its current form, and particularly in the area of employee data protection, this regulation can only provide a minimum level of protection. each member state should continue to be able to set more favourable standards for employees. it should be possible to set such standards in collective agreements. it is necessary to lay down certain minimum european standards concerning the level of protection. the data protection officer has a very important role. it must therefore be clear that he can exercise his duties without fear of external pressure or influence and for the benefit of the employees. special protection against dismissal and the prohibition of discrimination are therefore appropriate. the requirements for data transfers within a group of undertakings in the eu should also be sufficiently specified. the processing of personal data by the controller should be carried out in accordance with the law of the member state where the controller is established. it is therefore important that consent is possible even in situations of imbalance, if it confers legal and economic benefits on the employee. in addition, delegated acts should be used only where non-essential elements of this regulation need to be adapted in a rapid and flexible manner to technical and safety innovations.
in writing. - the report by mr albrecht is in favour of strengthening the right to the protection of personal data, while ensuring a unified legal framework which reduces the administrative burden on data controllers. i have therefore supported this report in order to promote the use of technological measures to protect personal data and to provide incentives to controllers who take such measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data because there is a need to harmonise the legislation in force to guarantee a high level of protection for all data processing activities within the union. directive 95/46/ec has been applied differently in the member states, which has hampered the development of the single market due to differences in data protection requirements. i hope that the improvements to the regulation will increase the level of protection of this data and at the same time create an environment conducive to the economic development of the european union.
in writing. - in an era where technology has reached such a high level of development, it is important that personal data is only collected legally, under strict conditions and for a legitimate purpose. every day, at union level, public authorities and businesses transfer personal data both nationally and across borders. according to a 2008 eurobarometer survey, two thirds of respondents across the union (65%) indicated that their firm had transferred personal data via the internet. the proportion of companies making such transfers ranged from 13% in germany to 59% in slovakia. these figures demonstrate the need for a uniform legal framework to effectively protect personal data of individuals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (general data protection regulation). i consider that the data protection principles should apply to any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. in order to determine whether a person is identifiable, all means that can reasonably be used, either by the controller or by any other person, for the purpose of identifying or highlighting that natural person, directly or indirectly, should be considered. they argue that consent should be given explicitly, by any appropriate method that allows the free, specific and informed expression of the will of the data subject, either by a statement or by an unequivocal act that is the result of a choice made by the data subject, ensuring that the natural person is aware that he or she is giving consent to the processing of personal data. the unequivocal act could include ticking a box when the person visits a website or any other statement or action which clearly indicates in this context the consent of the data subject to the proposed processing of his or her personal data.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the data protection regulation, as adopted by the libe committee, because some progress on clarifying the commission proposal has been achieved. the libe committee has taken steps in the right direction on better definitions, more flexible certification and the deletion of a large number of delegated acts. however, many issues are still not solved, ranging from unreasonably heavy administrative and financial burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises, to obstacles in health research and hindrances to much-needed research cooperation at global level. by maintaining a negative perception of profiling, the report is hampering innovation in the digital economy and the usage of big data for increasing efficiency in all activity sectors. as shadow rapporteur for the alde group in the industry committee, i believe that a much wider debate and a longer period of time for negotiations is needed to arrive to a reasonable and workable regulation for all eu citizens and companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because the extension of the pericles 2020 programme to the member states which have not yet adopted the euro was necessary to guarantee a uniform application of the programme throughout the european union. the risk of counterfeiting is not lower in non-euro-area countries, so measures to combat such crime need to be generalised across the union. this can ensure a reduction in losses arising from counterfeiting of euro banknotes and coins. transnational collaboration between the bodies responsible for the implementation of the programme at the level of each member state will be essential in this context.
in writing. - 'pericle 2020' is the continuation of the programme established by council decision 2001/923/ec, as amended, to adopt measures to protect the euro against counterfeiting. the aim of the recommendation is to extend the application of the pericles 2020 regulation to the member states which have not yet adopted the euro as the single currency in order to improve the programme itself, thereby helping to increase the effectiveness of the prevention and repression of euro counterfeiting.
in writing. - in 2013 a total of 670[nbsp ]000 counterfeit euro banknotes were withdrawn from circulation. around 75[nbsp ]% of these counterfeit notes concerns eur[nbsp ]20 and eur[nbsp ]50 banknotes. also in 2013 a total of 175[nbsp ]900 fake euro coins were withdrawn resulting in a counterfeit ratio of 1 for every 100[nbsp ]000 genuine coins. the pericles 2020 programme is vital to maintaining the integrity of the euro by assisting member state authorities in their efforts to fight counterfeiting and fraud, and by fostering cooperation between relevant stakeholders. with a budget of eur[nbsp ]1.1 million per year, the programme has already financed 135 projects both within and outside of the eu. for instance, it has strengthened anti-counterfeiting cooperation particularly within the vulnerable regions of eastern europe and south america. i must insist that the pericles 2020 programme also be applied to member states that have not yet adopted the euro. the programmeʼs greatest potential lies in being applied across the whole of the euʼs territory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council regulation extending to non-participating member states the application of the regulation establishing an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting (the 'pericles 2020' programme), approving the draft council regulation. the regulation establishing the pericles 2020 programme and replacing the pericles programme established by council decision 2001/923/ec provides that it is applicable in the member states in accordance with the treaties. article 139 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the measures governing the use of the euro currency referred to in article 133 do not apply to member states with a derogation. however, the exchange of information and staff, as well as the assistance and training measures implemented under the pericles 2020 programme should be uniform throughout the union and therefore the necessary measures should be taken to guarantee the same level of protection of the euro in the member states with a derogation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation as azerbaijan is an important strategic partner of the union. at the same time, the country is a potential energy supplier to the member states. in this context, an easier procedure for obtaining visas for azerbaijani citizens was needed. the benefits will be mutual, as azerbaijani citizens will be able to travel more easily within the union and member states could benefit from an increase in income in certain economic sectors. i welcome the fact that students and pupils will benefit from simplified visa procedures.
in writing. - the eastern partnership, to which the republic of azerbaijan is a party, aims to create the conditions necessary to accelerate political association and promote economic integration between the union and the participating countries. an important component of this partnership is visa liberalisation and citizens' mobility, and the first step is the negotiation of a visa facilitation regime, which must be accompanied by an agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, approving the conclusion of the agreement. in accordance with council decision 2013/695/eu, the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the facilitation of the issuance of visas ('the agreement') was signed on 29 november 2013, subject to its conclusion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because the fight against illegal immigration must remain one of the main objectives for strengthening the area of freedom, security and justice at european union level. the readmission agreement with azerbaijan will contribute to this objective. although azerbaijan is not a transit state for flows of illegal migrants arriving in the union, such an agreement was nevertheless necessary to provide legal certainty. i welcome the fact that the implementation of this agreement will have to ensure full respect for human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, approving the conclusion of the agreement, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs.
in writing. - today's armed conflicts involve one or more non-state armed actors fighting against states or other armed groups, while civilians become the main victims of wars, and many of these victims are children. the international community has a duty to ensure that all parties to the conflict, both states and armed non-state actors, commit to the protection of these children. there is a need at european union level to include in policy dialogues with third countries, for example in the framework of the cotonou agreement, the objective of preventing and stopping the recruitment and forced recruitment of children under 18 years of age and ensuring their release and reintegration into society. i support supporting humanitarian organisations engaging in dialogues with non-state armed actors to promote compliance with international humanitarian law in armed conflict and, in particular, the protection of children through political, diplomatic and financial means. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the problem of children involved in armed conflict tends to be accentuated. we're already talking about over 250,000 children involved in these events, and the impact on them is not just physical, but mostly emotional and psychological. very often, they are scarred for life by the atrocities committed around them, and there is a risk that they themselves will later be directly involved in such situations. the union therefore has a duty to promote legal rules at international level applicable both to states and, in particular, to non-state actors. these rules shall provide for the prohibition of the recruitment of minors and for their protection in the context of conflicts.
in writing. - i am in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the humanitarian engagement of non-state armed actors in the field of child protection. few people know that a significant number of children are used in armed conflict every year, with devastating consequences for their physical and mental development for the rest of their lives. we need to acknowledge this and get involved as much as possible in eliminating this practice. it is against human rights for children to be recruited as soldiers, forced to kill and subjected to sexual exploitation and, moreover, it is against any rights to be maimed or killed by landmines.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament's recommendation on the humanitarian engagement of non-state armed actors in the field of child protection. most current armed conflicts involve one or more non-state armed actors fighting against states or other armed groups, while civilians and especially children become the main victims of wars. unfortunately, armed conflict has a devastating impact on children's physical and mental development, with long-term consequences for human security and sustainable development. the international community has a moral duty to ensure that all parties to conflict, both states and non-state armed actors, commit to the protection of children. we recommend that the commissioner for development and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy support humanitarian organisations engaging in dialogues with non-state armed actors with the aim of promoting compliance with international humanitarian law in armed conflict and, in particular, the protection of children through political, diplomatic and financial means. we also recommend that they call on eu member states to join international efforts to prevent attacks on schools and their use by armed actors by endorsing the draft lucens guidelines on the protection of schools and universities against military use during armed conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision, as the european parliament's delegations dealing with relations with third countries have a special role to play. in addition to providing a bridge between parliament and the countries concerned, they also provide a better understanding of the problems faced by some countries and can thus contribute to their solution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies. this decision provides that the members of the parliamentary committees established under the economic partnership agreement (epa) are to be elected exclusively from the international trade committee and the development committee, ensuring the maintenance of the coordinating role of the international trade committee, which is competent in substance, and that they should closely coordinate their work with the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. the members of the delegation to the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean, the delegation to the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly and the delegation to the euronest parliamentary assembly shall be elected exclusively from the bilateral or subregional delegations to each assembly. the members of the delegation for relations with the nato parliamentary assembly will be elected exclusively from within the subcommittee on security and defence. the conference of delegation chairs should draft a biannual calendar, which should be adopted by the conference of presidents after consulting the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and the committee on international trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution, as it is imperative that european consumers be informed in a fair and transparent manner. the indication of nanomaterials on food labels is absolutely necessary to enable european consumers to make informed choices. in my view, regardless of the percentage of nanoparticles present in the composition of a food additive, there should be a clear indication of their presence. this is all the more important as the information available so far on nanomaterials is insufficient to adequately assess their potential impact.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 12 december 2013 amending regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers as regards the definition of 'manufactured nanomaterials' objecting to the commission delegated regulation. we consider that the commission delegated regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 and exceeds the delegated powers conferred on the commission by the latter act. we call on the commission to present a new delegated act which takes into account parliament's position. article 18 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on consumer information on food provides that all food ingredients present in the form of manufactured nanomaterials are to be clearly specified in the list of food ingredients to ensure consumer information. the commission delegated regulation excludes all food additives included in the union lists from the new definition of 'manufactured nanomaterials'. this general derogation cancels the labelling provisions for all food additives that are manufactured nanomaterials and this is contrary to the fundamental objective of the directive to pursue a high level of protection of the health and interests of consumers by providing final consumers with a basis to make an informed choice.
in writing. - i voted against the report because, in my view, the objective of the proposed directive should have been to strike a balance between the protection of personal data and the fight against crimes such as terrorism. there are a number of provisions aimed at reducing the risk of misuse and use of personal data for purposes other than lawful ones. however, the version approved by the libe committee introduces a number of bureaucratic procedures which will make it difficult to apply the directive. this increases the risk that, if necessary, competent authorities may not be able to intervene or may act too late against threats to national security. i hope that if adopted, the directive will not create a climate of impunity for several categories of potential offenders and will not pose a risk to the security of the member states.
in writing. - an effective data protection framework in europe can make a significant contribution to ensuring a good level of data protection for all european citizens. any processing of personal data must be lawful, fair and transparent in relation to the natural persons concerned. the specific purposes for which the data are processed must be explicit and legitimate and determined at the time of the collection of the personal data. the data shall be adequate, relevant and limited to the minimum necessary for the purposes for which the data are processed. personal data should be processed only where the purpose of the processing could not be fulfilled by other means. in order to ensure that data are not stored for longer than necessary, the operator should set deadlines for deletion or periodic review. the transfer of personal data to other authorities or private entities in the union shall be prohibited unless the transfer complies with the law and the recipient is established in a member state. the controller must inform the recipient of the purpose of the processing and the supervisory authority of the transfer, and the recipient must be informed of the processing restrictions and ensure that they are respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data. ensuring a uniform and high level of protection of personal data of natural persons and facilitating the exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the member states is essential to guarantee the effectiveness of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation. i consider it important that any processing of personal data is lawful, fair and transparent in relation to the natural persons concerned. in particular, the specific purposes for which the data are processed should be explicit and legitimate and determined at the time of the collection of the personal data. personal data should be adequate, relevant and limited to the minimum necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. this shall in particular entail limiting the data collected and the period for which they are stored to the minimum necessary. personal data should be processed only where the purpose of the processing could not be fulfilled by other means.
in writing. - i voted in favour of reforming the single sky implementation regulation, which aims to accelerate the implementation of the air navigation services reform, without departing from the original objectives and principles of the regulation. the implementation of the single european sky should play a positive role in terms of growth, employment and competitiveness in europe, in particular by stimulating the demand for highly skilled jobs. i believe that this proposal has the potential to accelerate progress in this area by preventing another setback of the european aviation industry caused by external competition and a new wave of airline failures. i believe that a synergistic approach to network configuration, network management and technology deployment can lead to the creation of an integrated operational european airspace, to the benefit of both citizens and european industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i would like to point out that, unfortunately, the major objectives of the single european sky have not yet been achieved. and this costs both the airlines and, by implication, the european passengers. whether we are talking about higher pollution, higher ticket prices or even flight safety problems all are effects of improper implementation of initiatives in this area. what is even more worrying is that the implementation delays will have even more serious effects in the context of the fact that the number of flights in europe will increase by more than 50% in the next 10-20 years. i think we should put aside the political sensitivities that are blocking progress on this issue and put the interest of european citizens first.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the implementation of the single european sky. this regulation shall apply to the airspace of the icao eur and afi regions where member states are responsible for the provision of air traffic services in accordance with this regulation. member states may also apply this regulation to the airspace under their responsibility in other icao regions, provided that they inform the commission and the other member states thereof. in order to avoid the expected increase in air traffic exacerbating or generating congestion in european airspace, with all the economic, environmental and safety costs that this entails, the fragmentation of that airspace should be ended and this regulation should also be implemented as soon as possible. i voted for amendment no 146 which calls on member states to take all necessary measures to ensure that air navigation service providers, when drawing up their business plans, take into account offers from different assistance service providers in order to choose the most financially appropriate provider and one which meets the appropriate operational, social and safety standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, when it comes to air transport, passenger safety must come first. that is why i am also in favour of introducing a mandatory certificate for organisations involved in the design or manufacture of air traffic management systems. but i also want to stress the importance of training air traffic controllers and the need for continuous specialisation. the role of the aviation safety agency will be essential to ensure compliance with the new rules. i also think it is welcome to clarify certain aspects of its functioning, such as the role in issuing certificates that i mentioned earlier. the ultimate objective must be to extend the agency's remit and strengthen its role, not only at european level but also at international level.
in writing. - within the european economy, an important component is the european aviation sector, which makes a strong contribution to promoting trade and tourism and has a significant employment rate. the desire to create new services in this field at member state level has led to the inefficient fragmentation of european airspace, with effects on air traffic control services at european level. each country has created its own air traffic management system, which results in reduced responsiveness to customer requirements airlines and the travellers who pay for these services. i support the idea that the implementation of the ses and the related reform of the european system must be accelerated, in order to help users cope with a fierce global competitive environment and to improve the overall efficiency of the way european airspace is organised and managed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 216/2008 in the field of airports, air traffic management and air navigation services. this regulation is part of the same legislative package as the single european sky and addresses the issue of aviation safety and the competences of the european aviation safety agency (easa). the regulation is very important for two reasons: firstly, to adapt to the new rules imposed by the single european sky, and secondly, to reform governance in order to implement the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement on european agencies. the main objective of this regulation is to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe and to establish the structure (governance) of the european aviation agency. easa, at the heart of the union aviation system, should also play a leading role in the union's external aviation strategy. easa, in close cooperation with the commission, should make a major contribution, given its expertise, to the export of union aviation standards and to the promotion of the movement of union aviation products, specialists and services worldwide, thereby facilitating their access to growing markets.
in writing. - i supported and voted in favour of this report because, as in most european countries, tourism plays an extremely important role in my country's economy. the development of the internet has made it easier for us to access many services and information. however, their regulation is still in its infancy, given their novelty. in addition, fair competition issues in the online environment are more difficult to monitor and implement. i believe that before making payment, the consumer must be able to know all the elements of the offer he is buying, including the possibility of a refund within a reasonable period of time. in addition, the possibility to cancel the package or reserved offer in the event of unjustified or unexpected price increases seems to me to be extremely useful for consumer protection.
in writing. - the development of new communication technologies is making a major contribution to ensuring travellers' access to information for booking travel and tourist packages, and is also contributing to the growth of online travel package bookings. in the context of the european single market, travellers should enjoy uniform protection and clear rights, regardless of the country in which they reside, and i support the proposal that member states should not be able to maintain or introduce in their national legislation provisions different from those laid down in this directive, unless this directive contains other provisions to that effect.
in writing. - mr mayer's report concerns the revision of directive 90/314/eec on all-inclusive travel to include online trade. the aim of the directive is to ensure compliance, effectiveness and an adequate level of protection for consumers/travellers in the event of insolvency, and to provide for penalties in the event of breaches of obligations by undertakings. the main issues are therefore pre-contractual information and withdrawal procedures, changes to the journey, price reductions or price increases, the protection of travellers in difficulty and objective liability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on package travel and assisted travel arrangements because tourism plays an important role in the union's economy and package travel, holiday and tours (packages) represent a significant proportion of this market. given that travel services are currently combined not only in the form of traditional pre-arranged packages but also often in a personalised way, many of these travel products fall either in a legal grey area or are not expressly covered by directive 90/314/eec. this directive aims to adapt the scope of protection to those developments and to increase transparency and the level of legal certainty for the benefit of travellers and traders. i welcome this initiative and hope that both at the european union level and at the level of romania this directive will ensure a favourable environment for the development of european tourism.
in writing. - i voted for the directive on package travel and assisted travel arrangements, amending regulation (ec) no [nbsp ]2006/2004 and directive [nbsp ]2011/83/eu and repealing council directive [nbsp ]90/314/eec. tourism plays an important role in the economies of the union and packaged travel, leisure and touring represent a significant proportion of this market. in addition to traditional distribution chains, the internet has become an increasingly important medium for the provision of travel services. travel services are now combined not only in the form of traditional pre-arranged packages but also, often, in a personalised way. this directive aims to adapt the scope of protection to those developments and to increase transparency and the level of legal certainty for the benefit of travellers and traders. member states may implement the provisions of this directive in respect of packages and associated travel arrangements offered or combined on an occasional basis by natural or legal persons for whom no direct or indirect financial income is derived from the sale of those packages or from the facilitation of the associated travel arrangements concerned, as well as of packages and associated travel arrangements covering a period of less than 24 hours and not including accommodation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it deals with a matter of general interest, with repercussions both for us and, above all, for future generations: climate change. emissions of fluorinated gases, which have a climate-warming effect up to 23,000 times greater than carbon dioxide, have increased by 60% since 1990, while all other greenhouse gases have decreased. therefore, we need an appropriate legal framework in place through which eu consumers and business users of equipment can drive change and drive technological development in all sectors that currently use f-gases. this will result in higher market shares for companies that take advantage of the opportunity and develop climate-friendly products and equipment.
in writing. - the montreal protocol has succeeded in mandating the worldwide phasing out or reduction of most ozone depleting substances, including chlorofluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons. the substitution substances used, such as hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride, have however been shown to have a very large influence on climate and a global warming potential up to 23[nbsp ]000 times greater than that of carbon dioxide and can remain for thousands of years in the atmosphere. the european union has called for greenhouse gas emissions to be reduced, but while all other greenhouse gases have been reduced, the eu's fluorinated gas emissions have increased by 60% since 1990. today's vote by the european parliament has given the green light to pass new legislation now to prevent emissions from rising in the coming decades. i believe that phasing out hfcs will strengthen sustainable development, stimulate innovation and reward european companies that have invested in green technologies. by taking on an ambitious global leadership role, europe can maintain its competitiveness in innovative refrigeration, cooling and heating technologies in an environmentally responsible way.
in writing. - in the context of the economic and social crisis, job protection is and remains a priority for the european union, but i believe that the implementation of the proposal to reduce the use and production of fluorinated gases requires a socially equitable transition period. this period is particularly necessary for small and medium-sized enterprises, which also need to reduce the financial and administrative burden in order to be able to contribute to the implementation of the various aspects of the regulation. on the other hand, it will be beneficial to increase support for industrial research and innovation, in particular in terms of the design of technologies alternative to fluorinated greenhouse gases, and for the design of appropriate training programmes to train workers in alternative technologies to fluorinated greenhouse gases, but taking into account the specific situation of smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases. the fourth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), to which the union is a party, states that, on the basis of existing scientific evidence, developed countries should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels in order to limit global climate change to a 2 ̊c increase in temperature, thereby preventing undesirable effects on climate. the aim of the adopted regulation is to protect the environment by reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. it (a) lays down rules on the containment, use, recovery and destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases and related ancillary measures; (b) imposes conditions on the placing on the market of specific products and equipment containing or relying on fluorinated greenhouse gases; (c) imposes conditions on specific uses of fluorinated greenhouse gases; and (d) sets quantitative limits for the placing on the market of hydrofluorocarbons.
in writing. - the free movement of workers is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union and a basic element of eu citizenship, which every citizen must be able to enjoy. however, at present, a large number of citizens who want to move or have moved to another eu country for work have expressed their grievances about their rights not being respected. the better functioning of the internal market therefore requires a more efficient and uniform application of the rights conferred by union rules on the free movement of workers. member states need to take appropriate measures to protect citizens against discrimination on grounds of nationality and any unjustified obstacle to the exercise of the right to work abroad. i welcome the provision that member states designate one or more structures or bodies to promote, analyse, monitor and support equal treatment for all workers and members of their families, without discrimination on grounds of nationality or citizenship, and adopt the necessary provisions for the functioning of such bodies. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, after the debate in january, in which i sent a strong political signal to all those who believe that freedom of movement is optional, i am pleased to see that we are now legislating a number of the principles discussed two months ago. freedom of movement in the european union is therefore non-negotiable and is a pillar of the community's construction. and european workers who choose to work in another country must enjoy the same rights as those in that country. after all, they are subject to the same rigors, even some more stringent ones, so why not enjoy similar benefits? especially since, in general, the productivity of foreign workers is higher than the national average, regardless of the state we're talking about. as i come from romania, and many of my fellow citizens have chosen to seek a better future in other member states, i know exactly what problems they face. either they are discriminated against when they try to get a job or they cannot even enroll their children in school thus violating the fundamental right to education. these are problems faced by any romanian citizen who goes to work in the west.
in writing. - the free movement of workers in europe is and must remain a political priority of the european union and i hope that the directive will contribute to fair and balanced mobility, especially as only 3% of european workers exercise their right to mobility in the eu. on the other hand, the exercise of the right of free movement of workers without obstacles or discrimination, equal treatment and the fight against discrimination on grounds of nationality of european workers exercising their right to free movement are elements that will help protect fundamental rights, improve eu competitiveness, business productivity and the quality of workers' jobs, and remain a pillar of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls on eu countries to ensure equal treatment of workers and adequate protection of labour rights. member states should ensure that free movement is not a source of exploitation, in view of the unequal treatment and vulnerability of migrant workers to possible abuse. i consider it essential that the member states work together to improve the framework for combating discrimination and to ensure that employees are better aware of their rights. at the same time, stronger action is needed to counter the discriminatory and xenophobic tendencies that are gaining ground in the context of the worrying social and economic crisis. in order to reduce inequalities between migrant and indigenous workers, i support the proposal on access of union citizens to public sector posts, in accordance with eu law as interpreted by the court of justice of the european union, which has stressed that the limitation of access to certain posts in the public administration to nationals of a member state should be interpreted restrictively and only for posts involving direct or indirect participation in the exercise of authority conferred by public law and in tasks aimed at protecting the general interests of the state or other public authorities.
in writing. - i voted against this report on the free movement of workers. the proposal as it stands does not provide adequate answers to the needs of workers, particularly those relating to an immediate solution to the problem of unemployment. we cannot allow macroeconomic imbalances and different conditions of access to the labour market, particularly at this time of severe economic crisis which threatens to undermine the credibility of the european union as such.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because we cannot talk about a more integrated european union in the context of an increase in discrimination against workers in the union on grounds of nationality over the last year. this discrimination has been manifested by the elimination of certain benefits, the provision of jobs not adapted to their skills and the provision of a net wage lower than that of nationals of the member state concerned. the free movement of workers shall not adversely affect nationals of the member state concerned by reducing their wages or benefiting from social advantages. free movement provides workers in sectors where there is a shortage, and these workers actively participate in economic growth by paying taxes to the state and producing goods and services needed by the domestic economy. i believe that we need better information in this area, by making conclusive studies available to european citizens and by immediately sanctioning states that deliberately obstruct the free movement of workers within the union.
in writing. - i support the commission's proposal for a directive on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the context of freedom of movement, as provided for in article [nbsp ]45 tfeu. every citizen of the union, regardless of his place of origin, must have the right to move and work in another member state. free movement cannot be separated from the single market. you cannot have free movement of services and capital in the single market without free movement of people. you cannot have the right to establish companies in bucharest or sofia, to benefit from reduced production costs, without accepting romanian and bulgarian labour in your country. free movement is not negotiable as long as you are a member of the union and the single market.
in writing. - the free movement of workers is a milestone in the process of european integration and plays a crucial role in countering the effects of the economic crisis, developing social cohesion and reducing disparities between european regions. however, eu workers face difficulties in exercising their rights when moving from one eu member state to another. the proper functioning of the internal market requires that the gap between the rights that union citizens enjoy in theory and those that they enjoy in practice be narrowed. i therefore believe that member states and the eu must make sustained efforts to ensure that the rules on free movement guarantee the full exercise of the rights conferred on union citizens. it is essential that those rules guarantee both the protection of workers against exploitation and the protection of host countries against abuse in relation to national social protection systems. by my vote in favour, i welcome the lifting of restrictions on the labour market in all eu member states for romanian citizens. this decision will have beneficial effects both for romanians and for the economies of the host countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the context of freedom of movement for workers. the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental freedoms of union citizens and one of the pillars of the internal market in the union, enshrined in article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the adopted directive lays down provisions to facilitate the application and ensure uniform enforcement of the rights conferred by article 45 tfeu and articles 1 to 10 of regulation 492/2011. the adopted directive applies to the following aspects: access to employment, working and employment conditions, in particular as regards remuneration, dismissal, occupational safety and health and, where union workers are unemployed, reintegration and re-employment, access to social and tax benefits, membership of trade unions and the right to be elected to workers' representative bodies, access to training, access to housing, access to education, apprenticeships and vocational training for the children of union workers and assistance from the employment offices. i voted against amendments nos 65, 66, 67 and 68, which sought to restrict the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it will strike a very good balance between protecting the environment and stimulating economic growth in the european union. the new provisions will remove a number of fears of public opinion and professional organisations when environmental impact assessments of projects are carried out. the elimination of bureaucratic procedures will also facilitate the carrying out of these assessments, allowing for timely and safe implementation of projects. europe needs jobs and growth, and large-scale projects can deliver these goals.
in writing. - directive 2011/92/eu harmonised the principles for assessing the effects of projects on the environment by introducing minimum requirements and has contributed, in its 28 years of application, to ensuring a high level of protection of the environment and human health. however, in order to remedy certain recent problems and to align the text of the directive with the new political priorities of the union, including the soil protection strategy, i consider it necessary to amend directive 2011/92/eu. the review will enhance the quality of the environmental impact assessment procedure, simplify the various steps of the procedure, align the procedure with the principles of smart regulation and improve coherence and synergies with other union legislation and policies, as well as with strategies and policies developed by member states in areas of national competence. the main objective is to ensure better implementation at member state level by simplifying burdensome administrative procedures that have generated additional delays and risks in environmental protection. i consider that, in order to ensure harmonised application and equal protection of the environment throughout the union, the commission should ensure qualitative as well as procedural compliance with the provisions of directive 2011/92/eu, including those on public consultation and participation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. directive 2011/92/eu harmonised the principles for the assessment of the impact of projects on the environment by introducing minimum requirements as regards the type of projects assessed, the main obligations of project promoters, the content of the assessment and the participation of competent authorities and the public, and contributes to ensuring a high level of protection of the environment and human health. member states are free to adopt more stringent protection measures in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). i consider that, in order to ensure a high level of protection of the environment and human health, the environmental impact assessment and the prior verification procedures should take into account the impact of the whole project, including, where appropriate, the surface and underground phases and during the construction, operation and, where appropriate, demolition phases. i support the need to review directive 2011/92/eu in a way that ensures improved environmental protection, increased resource efficiency and support for sustainable growth in the union. to that end, the procedures provided for in that directive should be simplified and harmonised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, in order to ensure legal certainty and accuracy in the statistical data, there was a need to align the existing regulations to the regime of implementing and delegated acts. a distinction should be made between situations where delegated acts are adopted and cases where the variant of implementing acts is chosen. i would stress the importance of the european parliament's scrutiny of the acts adopted by the european commission under this regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures. this proposal aims at aligning regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries with the regime for implementing and delegated acts established by the treaty of lisbon (articles 290 and 291 tfeu). at present, most of the legislative acts in the field of the common commercial policy have been aligned to the new constitutional regime through the omnibus acts on trade i and ii and a few other subsequent individual alignments. i voted to limit the delegation of powers to the commission to five years. such a limitation allows for greater parliamentary scrutiny by requiring the commission to draw up a report on the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the period laid down. on the other hand, the tacit extension of the delegation of powers for identical periods of time avoids imposing an excessive burden on legislators and facilitates the implementation of the common commercial policy. this amendment reflects the outcome of the trade omnibus i and ii negotiations, where the same approach was supported.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i consider it particularly useful to further develop this european earth observation system. the benefits of copernicus are manifold, whether we're talking about preventing natural disasters or humanitarian crises. the programme provides more complete information and enables informed decisions in the field of environment, climate, civil protection and security at national and community level. however, i would like to point out that the reduction in the programme budget compared to the commission's original proposal is not welcome, especially in the context of copernicus generating a profit of eur 3.2 for every eur spent.
in writing. - the european union must continue to pay particular attention to european space programmes, and the implementation of programmes such as galileo and copernicus will allow the union to maintain its leading position internationally, contributing to creating an environment conducive to the development of quality jobs at european level. i believe that it is beneficial to involve european companies in order to increase investment, jobs and growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it was necessary to align the legislation on gsa with the common approach on decentralised agencies. i would point out, however, that there are concerns about the level of funding for the agency, which may not be sufficient. for example, the salaries of the agency's staff are at the general level of income in the czech republic, but in the metropolitan area of prague, where the agency is located, the levels are much higher, both in terms of income and especially in terms of expenditure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 912/2010 establishing the european gnss agency. the european gnss agency is to ensure the accreditation of the european satellite navigation systems (the systems) and, to this end, initiates and monitors the implementation of security procedures and the performance of security audits. these systems are complex and their establishment and operation involve numerous stakeholders with different roles. in this context, it is of crucial importance that eu classified information is processed and protected by all stakeholders involved in the implementation of the galileo and egnos programmes, in accordance with the basic principles and minimum standards laid down in the commission and council security rules on the protection of eu classified information. the stakeholders involved in and affected by the security accreditation process are the member states, the commission, the relevant union agencies and the european space agency (esa). given the specific nature and complexity of the systems, the different bodies involved in their implementation and the diversity of potential users, security accreditation should be facilitated through appropriate consultation of all relevant parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, seeing what is happening in ukraine, i think it is obvious to all of us that the time for statements of support and encouragement to our eastern neighbours has passed. it is time to take action and support them in a concrete way, especially financially. i draw attention to the fact that while the entire international community is focused on russia's invasion of crimea, there is potential for instability in the republic of moldova as well. already the russian occupation forces in the separatist transnistrian region have raised the alert level. this is despite the fact that the foreign ministry in moscow said after the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the situation of transnistrian schools that russian soldiers in the area have an exclusively peacekeeping role. i wonder what kind of peace is being maintained, because it seems that russia sees the concept of peace differently than we do.
in writing. - the eu must focus on citizens of the eastern partnership countries, on policies that will deliver concrete results, such as visa liberalisation. the eu should focus on youth and energy security and cooperate with its eastern partners on this issue. i welcome the 2013 allocations under the 'eastern partnership integration and cooperation programme' of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, distributed between moldova, georgia and armenia, representing the additional funding for eastern partnership countries making progress on reforms for a strong democracy and human rights. i also welcome the commission's proposal to allow moldovan citizens to travel visa-free within the schengen area, to which the romanian authorities have made a key contribution. more efforts are also needed, in particular on promoting cooperation in the fields of education, science, culture and sport. the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, vocational training, paid and unpaid training, voluntary service and au pair work is an instrument that will have a major impact on education and culture.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the evaluation and prioritisation of eu relations with the eastern partnership countries. now more than ever, eastern partnership societies that are in favour of integration into the european union need strong, proactive and immediate support from the eu, which should be provided through different methods and in different policy areas, ranging from financial assistance to visa facilitation schemes. we recommend the flexible use of the instruments available to the eu, such as macroeconomic assistance, facilitation of the exchange regime, projects to strengthen energy security and economic modernisation, and the rapid application of visa liberalisation, in line with european values and interests. we underline that cooperation in the field of energy security is a priority within the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy. we believe that further progress on the integration of the gas and electricity networks in the region, including reverse flows, is essential to achieving the energy community objectives. projects such as south stream increase the eu's dependence on russian gas and therefore support the need for member states and the commission to accelerate projects that can help alleviate the eastern partnership countries' energy dependence on russia.
in writing. - i voted for the report. i have to admit, the sheer scale of the nsa's surveillance program has taken the public by surprise. what is even more surprising is that in some member states, national authorities themselves have provided certain information to the nsa illegally. we must admit that the confidence of many europeans has been shaken. the bases for cooperation between the union and the united states should be redefined in relation to data protection in order to prevent similar situations in the future. but i don't think we should resort to emotional decisions, let alone irrational ones. after all, we are talking about the union's most important partner, which not only helped to rebuild our continent after the second world war, but has consistently supported and even defended us in the decades since.
in writing. - the revelations of the last half year have seriously jeopardised the trust that has underpinned transatlantic relations, as well as the confidence of eu citizens in the ability of their own governments and european forums to defend their rights. the european parliament therefore condemns the widespread and indiscriminate collection of strictly personal data, which violates not only the right to privacy but also notions that are at the foundation of a democratic society, such as the presumption of innocence, freedom of the press or the non-use of information in political confrontations. in this context, the position of the european parliamentary forum is very clear: the us must ban secret mass surveillance activities. otherwise, bilateral relations will deteriorate rapidly, as already reflected by the partial suspension of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. a thorough investigation of past abuses is also needed, a reform of the european cybersecurity and data protection framework, and a review of the national framework in each member state for the democratic control of intelligence activities. as the report on which i voted points out, national competence in matters of espionage and national security does not preclude a parallel, eu-specific competence in matters of internal security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the surveillance programme of the us national security agency, the surveillance bodies in the various member states and their impact on the fundamental rights of eu citizens and on transatlantic cooperation in justice and home affairs. we condemn the widespread, systematic and secret collection of personal data of innocent people, including many times strictly personal and private information. we consider it essential to protect the privilege of professional secrecy of lawyers, journalists, doctors and other persons exercising professions regulated by mass surveillance activities. we stress that any uncertainties related to the confidentiality of information communicated in the lawyer-client relationship could have a negative impact on citizens' right to legal advice, access to justice and the right to a fair trial. i voted for amendments nos 27 and 28, which call for an end to the mass interception and processing of webcam images by any secret service outside the legal framework for the protection of personal data and call on the member states to establish mechanisms to hold those responsible to account for this abuse of power.
in writing. - i supported this report because i believe that the justice dashboard could be extended to criminal cases. the deepening of the area of freedom, security and justice implies greater cooperation and a delegation of competences to the european union also in criminal matters. the commission's monitoring of the judicial system in the member states is essential to ensure that the judicial systems of the member states function as efficiently as possible.
in writing. - the 2013 justice scoreboard covers only civil, commercial and administrative justice, but should also include criminal justice, as the functioning and integrity of criminal justice have important implications and fundamental rights are also closely linked to the rule of law. the establishment of a criminal cases scoreboard will be a fundamental contribution to the creation of a common understanding of eu criminal law among judges and prosecutors. the commission should establish a separate scoreboard covering the judiciary, which should assess, using objective indicators, the independence, efficiency and integrity of magistrates, the careers of judges and the respect of procedural rights. the commission should propose an effective mechanism for regular assessment of member states' compliance with the eu's fundamental values as set out in article 2 teu, providing a basis for an early warning tool and a crisis mechanism with appropriate forms of intervention, more effective infringement procedures and the possibility of sanctions in case of systematic violation of the principles of democracy and the rule of law and in case of failure of appropriate checks and balances in a member state.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the evaluation of justice in terms of criminal justice and the rule of law. in the field of criminal justice, evaluation enhances mutual trust, and mutual trust is key to the effective implementation of mutual recognition tools. also, in the stockholm programme, evaluation is listed as one of the main tools for integration in the area of freedom, security and justice. the 2013 justice scoreboard covers only civil, commercial and administrative justice but should also include criminal justice, as the functioning and integrity of criminal justice also have important implications for fundamental rights and is closely linked to the rule of law. we stress that the establishment of a criminal scoreboard will be a fundamental contribution to creating a common understanding of eu criminal law among judges and prosecutors, thus strengthening mutual trust. we call on the commission to gradually extend the scope of the scoreboard to become a separate scoreboard covering the judiciary, which assesses, using objective indicators such as the independence, efficiency and integrity of magistrates, the careers of judges and the respect of procedural rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because there is a significant fragmentation of the audiovisual markets in the european union. the existence of a uniform legal framework guaranteeing equal access of users to the services offered by providers is essential. i also stress the importance of respecting the principle of net neutrality, especially in the context of the increasing number of audiovisual services being transmitted over the internet. last but not least, i believe that greater convergence will also be able to stimulate innovation in the field, which will contribute to further development of the audiovisual services market.
in writing. - in the face of the development of information technology, the internet and social networks and their use by an increasing number of citizens, the traditional linear audiovisual service offerings continue to represent an important part of the media consumption habits of european citizens. i also support the idea that maintaining information pluralism, promoting cultural and linguistic diversity and preserving the structural role of the public service media in the european media ecosystem are values of public interest. these values must be maintained and promoted as part of the european social model. a debate at european level on audiovisual convergence would be beneficial, which should have as its central objectives the protection of european cultures and the inseparable protection of the interests and fundamental rights of citizens, in particular minors and other vulnerable audiences.
in writing. - the digital market has brought with it new business models, which are currently little or not regulated. the placing on the market of unauthorised audiovisual content may, in some cases, pose a threat to quality journalism. in addition, the preferential transmission of media content to the detriment of others affects the diversity of opinion and the right of users to be informed in a non-discriminatory manner. if we also take into account the new advertising strategies that rely on these technologies - screen capture, consumer profiling, multi-screen strategies, etc. - the question of consumer protection, privacy and personal data arises. in this context, i am convinced that we need uniform standards and more effective regulation for the digital sector, which at the same time supports innovation and technological progress. i also believe that ensuring product and opinion diversity, and the search and discovery of audiovisual content should not be driven by economic interests. i therefore call on the european commission to identify ways of financing and producing high-quality european audiovisual content that will stand the test of time and offer a testimony to the cultural excellence specific to our continent.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on preparing for the full convergence of the audiovisual world. we stress that regulation is necessary when there is a control of 'content converters' over access to the media and a direct or indirect impact on opinion formation. we invite the commission and the member states to monitor developments in this regard and to make the most of the opportunities offered by european competition law and antitrust law and, if necessary, to introduce measures to protect diversity and to develop a regulatory framework for convergence that is adapted to these developments. we believe that, in the context of electronic communications, all data packets should in principle be treated equally, regardless of their content, application, origin and purpose (the 'best effort' principle) and we call for the maintenance and safeguarding of a free and open internet, in particular with regard to the development of specialised services. we emphasise that network neutrality, in the sense of an internet operating on the basis of the principle of best effort and non-discriminatory access and transmission of all audiovisual content, is a guarantee of a pluralistic supply of information and of the diversity of opinion and culture and thus constitutes an element analogous to the 'must-carry' principle of the convergent media world.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's eu citizenship report 2013 which announces new actions in 12 areas aimed at strengthening the rights of eu citizens. at a time when european citizens are losing confidence in the european construction, measures are needed to ensure that they can enjoy all the rights inherent in european citizenship. citizens need to be able to make informed decisions on the exercise of their treaty rights and should therefore be provided with easily accessible practical information on the economic, social, administrative, legal and cultural issues they face. this requires national, regional and local authorities to promote a better understanding of european citizenship and explain its concrete benefits to citizens. i believe that more needs to be done to promote that citizens residing in a member state other than their home member state can exercise their right to vote in european and local elections, just like citizens of the country in which they have chosen to reside.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the rights of european citizens must be strengthened. although european law guarantees equal treatment for european citizens, regardless of the country they are in, there are still gaps in implementation. the global economic crisis has accentuated certain xenophobic tendencies in some european countries, leading to a backsliding in the guarantee of equal rights for eu citizens. i therefore believe that the role of national administrations will be both to rigorously enforce european legislation that guarantees the protection of eu citizens and non-discriminatory treatment, and to facilitate dialogue and information.
in writing. - with the concept of european citizenship and the rights derived from it as its backbone, the report reviews a number of specific issues, starting from concrete situations of non-application or misapplication of the idea of european citizenship. such situations, which are invoked mainly by citizens through petitions to the ep's specialised committee, are considered to be incompatible with the idea of european citizenship and therefore to be criticised. of particular interest to romanian european citizens are a number of issues identified in the report as common in the eu area: discrimination on grounds of nationality, de facto differences between the rights of european citizens, which should be equal, the maintenance of derogations from the right to free movement or the invocation of criteria other than technical ones for the access of member states to the schengen area, criteria of the nature of violating the same right to free movement. in this context, the report highlights the need to better inform european citizens about their rights, and underlines the role of the ep, as the only directly elected body representing european citizens, which must take a clearer stand towards respecting the right to free movement, a fundamental right of the european citizen.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2013 eu citizenship report eu citizens: your rights, your future. we call on the commission to play an active role in ensuring that the procedures implemented by the member states fully respect the values and human rights recognised by the european treaties. we stress that labour mobility is one of the main pillars of the single market and we also highlight the positive benefits of eu migrant labour to the economies of the member states. in this regard, we call on the commission to closely monitor the situation and take appropriate measures to remove potential obstacles, such as excessive bureaucracy, to this fundamental freedom at national level. we invite each member state to set up, as soon as possible, a one-stop shop in each state for the coordination of projects with cross-border impact. we consider that the nomination of candidates for the post of president of the commission by european political parties at european level is an important step towards creating a genuine european public space and we argue that the prospect of a europeanisation of the electoral campaign can only be realised through pan-european activities and through local and national media networks, in particular public companies, in the fields of broadcasting, television and the internet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, despite the more or less justified concerns that some national parliaments, including the chamber of deputies in romania, have expressed, i believe that the emergence of the european public prosecutor's office is a positive thing. we are talking, however, about investigations into the use of european money, and the union must have the right to protect its financial interests. that is why i cannot fully understand the negative opinions expressed by several parliaments on the proposal. if in the case of some, the justifications were pertinent and raised questions of common sense, in the case of the lower chamber of the parliament of romania it is clear that the motivation had a different substrate. perhaps the fear of a 100% independent prosecutor who could expose possible fraud led the representatives of power to reject such an institution. but i am glad that we in the european parliament are expressing our full support for commissioner reding's proposal, and i commend her for her tenacity and determination. one thing must be clear to all of us: we are in a time of crisis and now, more than ever, we must use european and national money as rationally and legally as possible.
in writing. - the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is an important step in the process of cooperation between member states in the field of criminal justice. the report aims to improve the fight against crossborder crime, cooperation between states, the protection of european values, european funds, etc. coordination with eurojust, olaf and europol would be functional and complementary to criminal prosecution, with a view to full judicial cooperation in criminal matters, bringing together significant national experiences in a single body, with the participation of all member states wherever possible. it is necessary to review the remedies for determining the court with jurisdiction for offences of the prosecutor's office's subsidiary competence, for investigative measures, for the admissibility of evidence and for the closure of investigations. in addition, as regards procedural safeguards, a set of principles and rights is necessary to strengthen the protection of suspects without thereby weakening the prosecution and punishment of offences. it is also important to create a responsive and rapid structure that ensures high standards of independence, experience and professionalism, balancing the need for rapid decisions with the accuracy of investigations and knowledge of the national realities in which the offences occur.
in writing. - i have always supported the creation of a european area of criminal justice and cooperation between member states in this field. we need strong and effective european instruments to defend the financial interests of the union. according to reuters, corruption costs the eu economy €120 billion a year, and fraud of european money is at an all-time high. we need the european public prosecutor to investigate fraud, especially cross-border fraud with european money, and to bring the accused to justice. i support the independence of the european prosecutor from the european institutions and national authorities and his protection from any form of political pressure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office. the main objectives of the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office are to contribute to strengthening the protection of the financial interests of the union, to increasing the trust of eu businesses and citizens in the union institutions and to ensuring more efficient and effective investigation and prosecution of offences affecting the financial interests of the union, while fully respecting the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the eu has taken on the task of developing an area of freedom, security and justice and, in accordance with article 6 of the treaty on european union, it respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. as crime is increasingly taking on a cross-border dimension and as crimes against the financial interests of the union cause significant financial damage each year, the eu needs to provide an effective response, adding value to the joint efforts of all member states, as the protection of the eu budget against fraud can be better achieved at eu level. we call on the council to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the courts in the member states which are indispensable for the success of the european public prosecutor's office project.
in writing. - i voted for the report. as i have said in the past, i remain a supporter of the advancement of turkey's eu accession negotiations. using political pretexts to block the talks is in no one's interest. in addition, there is a risk of a dissatisfaction with the union in turkish society, and from there it is only a step to euroscepticism. turkey must remain anchored in the european context, both because it is one of the union's most important partners and because recent developments in the eastern neighbourhood make this necessary. so in my view, a way must be found to boost the talks and open new chapters of negotiation, of course, if turkey demonstrates a real commitment to continuing democratic reforms. unfortunately, recent corruption scandals show that the judicial system remains fragile, which poses risks to the proper functioning of the rule of law. in addition, there remains the cyprus problem, which the turkish authorities do not seem to want to resolve in a real way. my conclusion is that there are still obstacles, but with real efforts on both sides, i believe they can be overcome.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution on the 2013 progress report on turkey. following a new law voted by the turkish parliament on 15 february 2014, turkey faces problems of political manipulation and lack of transparency in the functioning of the superior council of judges and prosecutors. the new law gives the minister of justice and, by implication, the entire government, direct control over both the structure and the activity of the superior council of judges and prosecutors. according to human rights watch, the attempt to control the council is a result of the investigation that prosecutors began in december 2013 against prime minister erdogan's son for a corruption case. calls on the government of turkey to respect the independence necessary for the proper functioning of the judiciary and to urgently review the law which violates european standards for the functioning of judicial institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because recent experience has shown that the arctic is generating increasing interest, particularly because of its potential energy resources. i would stress that their exploitation must not be done without taking account of environmental considerations, even if the region is uninhabited. cooperation between riparian states will be essential in this regard, requiring a consistent and uniform application of the agreed rules.
madam president, we are fully entitled to talk here about more transparency, more democratic control over the work of the institutions, which has actually saved several member states of the european union from financial, economic and social collapse. but in discussing these things, let's not forget the fundamentals, namely responsibility and solidarity. a country that is over-indebted -- that is in danger of not being able to pay its debts -- such a country has no choice but to restructure its economy. we expect solidarity from the creditors. creditors will always seek to give a respite to distressed countries, having faith, confidence that those countries are carrying out the necessary structural reforms and, of course, accommodating the revenue potential of that country with payment obligations. from this point of view, i consider that the troika has done its duty, even though there have been many complaints about the troika's activity. in difficult conditions, the troika did a good thing. the european union lacked the financial resources, financial instruments and experience to devise complex structural adjustment programmes for a number of troubled developed eu member states.
in writing. it has been almost four years since the first troika-imposed adjustment programme was launched in greece. unfortunately, the austerity measures dictated by the tripartite organization have brought recession and increased public debt and unemployment in the countries that have gone through such a program. today, unemployment in spain is over 25%. at the same time, greece's public debt stood at around 172% of gdp at the end of 2013, compared to 148% of gdp in 2010. the international monetary fund itself admitted in june last year that it had underestimated the negative effects of the austerity measures imposed on greece. however, the troika cannot be held accountable for its actions as it is not vested with democratic legitimacy. i therefore believe that it is necessary to replace the troika with a new, democratic and european law-based body, the european monetary fund, and to reform policies for countries in difficulty by including economic recovery and public debt support measures.
mr president, i believe that the situation in the transnistrian region should have been one of the union's priorities in the human rights council, especially in the context of the growing tensions in the eastern neighbourhood. despite the fact that on my initiative, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the violation of the right to education in the romanian language in the transnistrian region, the so-called authorities in tiraspol continue the stalinist practices. it went so far that after being arrested, the headmaster of the lyceum "lucian blaga" in tiraspol was sent to court on charges of currency smuggling, when in fact he was transporting teachers' salaries. all this is taking place under the auspices of the so-called russian peacekeepers, who are keeping the separatist regime alive. in addition, in recent days, the russian military has apparently received war ammunition and has been put on high alert, theoretically because of the situation in ukraine. but lately, and not only, russia has shown us how it acts when it pursues its interests, and crimea is the best example. i draw attention to the risk that instability in ukraine is being exported by russia and to the republic of moldova.
the reporter. - mr president, the establishment of the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas is proof that the union is taking another step forward in guaranteeing a high level of security in the european area. the internal security of the union and the management of the external borders are a key objective conflicts and tensions in the vicinity of the european space require the strengthening of the union's capacity to protect the external borders. in this regard, the instrument should strengthen the monitoring capacities of member states, in close liaison with third countries, to prevent illegal immigration and cross-border crime. in order to facilitate legal migration and to combat the related risks of illegal immigration, we need to ensure uniform and high-quality control at our external borders. the implementation of this instrument should be carried out in accordance with union standards. the fund will contribute to harmonising the level of border security in the member states, which is why we introduced the concept of common criteria for border evaluation. the common evaluation criteria will make it possible to avoid any discrepancies in the quality of the member states' borders and to eliminate the possibility that new member states, which have equipped their borders to be accepted into the schengen area, exceed the security level of the old member states. the agency should have a decisive role in consulting and coordinating member states in order to facilitate investments in the common interest of the union. the creation of a single architecture is essential to ensure interoperability, coordination and compatibility between border security systems with third countries. it is also important to introduce a set of indicators for assessing the application of the provisions of this regulation. common security measures and standards, as well as a coordinated approach to infrastructure, equipment and it systems, will help avoid fragmentation and duplication of resources between different countries of the union. the amount of financial support is eur 2,76 billion for the period 2014-2020. it has shared and centralised management, depending on the different programmes. more than half of this fund is financial assistance for the national programmes of the member states. the national programmes will be complemented by coordinated union actions and a rapid reaction mechanism to deal with emergencies. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: the funds will allow the union to set up computer systems for more efficient management of border crossings by third-country nationals and to ensure better identification and verification of travellers. the regulation requires that these systems build on systems and databases already in place. the financial support will contribute to covering the operational costs related to border control and visa policy, ensuring benefits for member states and citizens. in order to contribute to the development of a common european border management system, the instrument should contribute to strengthening and complementing the activities undertaken by frontex, as well as by third states and other actors, europol and the agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems. through this financial support instrument, the union shall add value to the individual actions of the member states in the field of visas and migration flow management.
mr president, we are at the end of a long process of difficult negotiations to identify a compromise on these four fundamental documents on the european union's policy on asylum, immigration, border control and police cooperation. the internal security fund shall provide the basis for an integrated financial framework for the policies relating to immigration and the security of the union's external borders. the outcome of the negotiations is all the more encouraging as the european parliament has put forward a number of important measures to create a regulatory and institutional environment appropriate to the challenges facing the european union. among these proposals, i note in this context the need for all union and member state actions to respect international human rights obligations and international maritime law in the course of maritime border surveillance operations. the importance of these measures and the proportion of the amounts allocated to the member states through the funds created in the field of internal affairs obliged parliament, as co-legislator, to also ask for a guarantee that the national programmes would establish budgetary percentages corresponding to the objectives pursued. we also managed to maintain the review obligation at the mid-point of the multiannual financial framework in order to reallocate a significant budget. i would like to stress that the internal security fund regulation does not explicitly refer to the smart borders proposal, due to the suspension of negotiations on this issue, but also due to uncertainties regarding the outcome of the ongoing processes. as a result of parliament's efforts, the resources originally earmarked for this package of measures will be able to be reallocated to other actions of the european union or the member states, if the co-legislators do not agree on this. i would also like to thank the four rapporteurs and congratulate commissioner malström on her work.
the reporter. - mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their speeches and support for these dossiers, and i thank the irish and lithuanian presidencies for their cooperation and efforts to reach an agreement. i thank my fellow rapporteurs from the political groups for their cooperation, of course, it was a very good cooperation. commissioner, thank you and your team for your cooperation - it has been very good. i would just like to add two things: at least in my case, most of the negotiating time -- you heard it here, it was a long time -- was devoted to delegated acts. i would like the outcome of these negotiations to be applied, not to have been negotiated in vain, and for parliament to be informed and involved above all in the preparation of the commission's general programmes. secondly, unfortunately the european council in february cut a lot from the total budget of the union, and the commission came afterwards and made a considerable reduction for this package of dossiers. thank you, of course, and my colleague, mr. iacolino. we also had to negotiate amongst ourselves to reach an agreement on the division of the internal security fund. therefore, i would ask you to take into account, in the possible budgetary correction in 2017, and give priority to these regulations, because a lot of the funds originally allocated, also by you, for these activities have been cut.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, this much-needed directive is undoubtedly aimed at the dark side of information. beyond the benefits of an information culture, there is also a cost, which today is transformed into a risk for the users of this information. cybersecurity, with all its implications, is, in my view, the main source of global insecurity. i don't think that legislative solutions are the ones that can solve this security risk. the authority that the directive envisages is not the solution. regulations have always lagged behind life, and life, in this field, is accelerating in performance, unfortunately and in evil -- which is what cyberattack means. the culture of cooperation is vital and the fact that the directive specifies and encourages member states to adopt a clear set of rules for the culture of cooperation can be one of the solutions that can solve the problems. but we certainly have to address third countries if we want to be viable and we have to address users, because beyond a deliberate attack, we have to take into account an attack by lack of performance and information. it will therefore have to be accompanied in particular by training projects, mandatory training projects for users of information systems.
mr president, communications and information technology infrastructure has become, and should increasingly be, part of critical infrastructure. i therefore regret that the budget allocated through the connecting europe facility has been reduced to the development of ict infrastructure, as i believe that a significant amount will have to be spent at both the european union and member state level to increase cybersecurity. the reliability and security of networks, systems and information technology services are essential for economic activities and, in particular, for the functioning of the internal market. the scale and frequency of deliberate or accidental security incidents is increasing and represents a major threat to the functioning of network and information systems. i consider it important to ensure that a minimum level of national capacity in the field of network and information security is established at the level of each member state and that it emergency response teams are established.
rapporteur. - mr president, the international financial reporting standards and the international standards on auditing are the bedrock for the comparability and transparency of company accounts throughout the union. this is about the quality of financial information in the decision-making process. public money – eur[nbsp ]43 million – will be used to co-finance three non-profit organisations which deliver public goods: the international financial reporting standards foundation, which, through the international accounting standards board, develops international financial reporting standards; the public interest oversight board, which oversees international audit, ethics and education standards for the accounting professions; and the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag), the technical adviser of the european commission, which assesses whether or not an ifrs standard complies with eu company law as part of the endorsement process in the european union. during our work on this report, important questions have arisen: the question of the prudence principle versus the neutral one included in the conceptual framework, and the principle that accounts should give the true and fair value; the question of independence of the standard issuers and the governors of these organisations; the need for convergence and the differences between the ifrs standard and the us accounting standards; and the effectiveness, proactivity and governance of efrag. answering these questions is not an easy task. we found ourselves in an academic debate, a professional debate and a political debate. during the negotiations, we finalised a good compromise on this report together with the council and commission. we have clear commitments regarding annual assessments of the work done by these three organisations; the commission's report by 31[nbsp ]march this year on efrag’s implementation of the maystadt recommendation; the commission report by 31[nbsp ]december[nbsp ]2014 on eight years of experience of ias regulation implementation; and, where appropriate, proposals for ias regulation changes. this report will also refer to governance arrangements for the ifrs foundation and the icb. the ifrs foundation and the icb will take measures for interest disclosure in order to avoid conflicts of interest. as rapporteur for this dossier, it is my duty to thank the shadows for their contribution and support: säid el khadraoui, wolf klinz, sven giegold, syed kamall and our assistants. i also thank commissioner barnier for his understanding of our concerns and for the right decision which he took.
mr president, i would stress that for the effective functioning of capital markets and the achievement of the integrated financial services market in the union, a common financial reporting framework is needed that functions properly. bodies active in the field of accounting and auditing in the union play important and decisive roles for the functioning of the internal market and obviously depend heavily on funding. this regulation should provide for the possibility of co-financing the activities of certain bodies pursuing objectives which are part of the union policy on the development and approval of standards or the supervision of standard-setting processes relating to financial reporting and auditing and which support that policy. i stress the importance of hiring top experts as well as the efficient use of financial resources, including for the training of experts to meet the union's policy objectives in financial reporting and auditing. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that perhaps, unfortunately, the current crisis is partly due to the fact that these standards could be made more stringent.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the house for its involvement and participation in this debate and the comments made on the proposal. just to conclude, i would like to stress that in this field we all pursue the same objective of having high-quality accounting standards for businesses. and i count on your understanding of the importance of the financing decision for us to achieve our strategic objectives in this field. there seem to be historical reasons for the foundation’s location in the us, in particular the fact that this was primarily an organisation mostly funded by us donors. things have changed. the centre of gravity of the ifrs has moved to the eu, so we need to review whether this structure remains appropriate. the commission, as a member of the ifrs monitoring board, will quickly ask for clarification and will ask the ifrs to address this issue as part of its next governance review. regarding true and fair procedure, the ifrs foundation is looking at this issue as part of the review of their conceptual framework. the commission and the ifrs monitoring board are both looking at those issues. finally, i would like to reassure you that the commitment made by the commission as regards implementing the reform of efrag and the evaluation of the ias regulation will be fully respected.
the reporter. - mr president, the european parliament will remain very attentive to developments in accounting and auditing standards. we are confident that quality standards in this area will help us and in particular financial market players to prevent excesses. i am sure that the two reports we are awaiting at the end of march this year and at the end of december will give us the opportunity once again to attend highly specialised and complicated debates, but i am confident, and in this case too, that together with the council, together with the european commission, we will be able to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
mr president, directive 1999/5/ec establishes a regulatory framework for the placing on the market, free movement and putting into service in the union of radio equipment and communication terminal equipment. i consider it important that the new directive ensures the clarification and simplification of the existing directive, including some limited adaptations of its scope, in order to facilitate its application and to remove unnecessary burdens for economic operators and public authorities. i would stress that efficient use of the radio spectrum based on the most advanced technologies should be ensured in order to avoid interference. interoperability between radio equipment and accessories such as chargers simplifies the use of radio equipment and reduces waste and unnecessary costs. they support the need to develop a universal charger for certain categories of radio equipment, in particular for mobile phones and tablets that are introduced or made available on the market and that should be compatible with a universal charger that allows interoperability.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to set up european business centres in asia is part of both the broader strategy called 'global europe' and the initiative for small businesses, the small business act. at the moment, only 13% of european smes operate outside the european union. i believe that the european union should encourage smes wishing to expand their activities in asia, boosting european competitiveness by developing an external dimension. asia has significant natural, energy and human resources to support the development of european business centres on its territory. however, we must also take account of the administrative challenges facing european firms. in this context, i do not consider it appropriate to assess their performance as below expectations, as i do not consider it beneficial to encourage competition between chambers of commerce of the member states of the european union and european companies, to the detriment of the latter. in my view, parliament should adopt a moderate position, taking into account both the achievements of european business centres and the weaknesses of their work. i am sure the european executive can give us more details on this. last but not least, i would like to welcome the proposal of the eurochambers to draw up a green paper on european economic diplomacy, which would lead to the formulation of a coherent strategy at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the european asylum system is not working at optimum parameters, and this is because there is no full solidarity between member states. it is clear to me that the southern states of the union are more exposed to waves of illegal immigrants or asylum seekers. this is why i welcome the fact that the financial allocations from the asylum, migration and integration fund will be given priority to those countries. i think the money should be used primarily for the construction of accommodation centers, because in many places the current facilities are overcrowded. the union should also provide support to the member states in the implementation of the union's external borders policy. this could give a chance of social integration to those who come to europe because their lives and safety are threatened in their countries of origin.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the asylum, migration and integration fund. this new financial instrument, covering the period 2014-2020, has a budget of around €3.1 billion over seven years, an increase of around 50% compared to the three funds from the 2007-2013 period that it now merges and expands. i welcome its adoption, as parliament has succeeded in strengthening the rights of migrants, in particular by giving priority to the financing of asylum and integration policies. the main improvements achieved by parliament's efforts include the fair and transparent distribution of funding between the different objectives of the fund (asylum, integration and return), with a minimum of 20%[nbsp ] of available funds allocated to asylum and integration policies respectively, the involvement of ngos and relevant international organisations in the development, implementation and monitoring of the fund at national level, the strengthening of a results-based approach that would not only take account of actions but also focus on a qualitative assessment of their achievements, and finally increased coordination and coherence between actions in countries.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption by the european parliament of the regulation on general provisions for the european asylum and migration fund; i agree with the agreed funding structure, namely the grants, but also with the co-financing rate of 75%. in addition, i welcome the flexibility of the regulation to allow the co-financing rate to be increased to 90% for strategic priorities and in exceptional circumstances. i believe that before the preparation of the multiannual national programmes, there should be a dialogue between the member states and the european commission to ensure the coherence of the strategies developed. i also believe that the european parliament should be regularly informed about the outcome of the political dialogues, but also about the preparation of the national programmes and their implementation. last but not least, i support the usefulness of providing technical assistance at the initiative of the european commission for the preparation and evaluation of projects, the strengthening of institutional capacities, the carrying out of evaluations, expertise and studies, as well as for the updating and interconnection of information systems at european level.
in writing. - i voted for the proposal for a regulation establishing the asylum and migration fund. the union's objective of an area of freedom, security and justice should be achieved, inter alia, through common measures to shape an asylum and immigration policy based on solidarity between member states and fair towards third countries and their nationals. the fund should reflect the need for increased flexibility and simplification, while respecting the requirements related to predictability and ensuring a fair and transparent allocation of resources to meet the general and specific objectives set out in this regulation. the general objective of the fund is to contribute to the effective management of migration flows and to the implementation, strengthening and development of the common policy on asylum, subsidiary protection and temporary protection, as well as the common immigration policy, while fully respecting the rights and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the fund shall be established for the period from 1[nbsp ]january[nbsp ]2014 to 31[nbsp ]december[nbsp ]2020 and the overall resources for the implementation of this regulation shall be eur 3,137 million in current prices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the hong kong international convention on the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships should be ratified as soon as possible. the act is an important step worldwide towards safer and greener ship recycling. however, it should be borne in mind that stricter rules exist at eu level in this area, which means that ratification of the convention will not have a significant impact on member states. however, as regards third states, the application of the provisions of the convention will generate a greater degree of responsibility and safety when it comes to ship recycling.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation to ratify the hong kong international convention on the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships. although it was adopted in 2009, only norway has acceded to it. the recycling of ships is a very important process, given the pollution hazard it poses. due to the large number of hazardous materials carried on board, any ship to be dismantled poses a potential risk to the environment. even if the convention allows for the beach-failing method, globally it brings significant improvements over the current situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft decision on the ratification by member states of, or accession to, the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships (2009) in the interests of the european union. the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships was adopted on 15 may 2009 under the auspices of the international maritime organisation. in order to enter into force and take effect, it will need to be ratified by the main flag states and recycling states. on 9 january 2014, the convention was signed by five parties and only one of the parties (norway) acceded to it. in 2013, regulation (eu) no [nbsp ]1257/2013 on ship recycling was adopted. the purpose of this regulation is to ensure the environmentally friendly recycling of eu ships. this regulation also aims to facilitate the ratification of the hong kong international convention on the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships of 2009. the new regulation will not apply before 31 december 2015 and not later than 31 december 2018. it will legalise the recycling of eu ships in non-oecd countries provided that the recycling is carried out in facilities included in a european list.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. even if we are dealing with a controversial text, we cannot ignore the contributions made by the troika, in a context where the financial crisis has generated a serious economic and social crisis throughout the european union. each member state has experienced negative effects ranging from employment levels to access to credit or decreased income. my country, which is not yet a member of the eurozone, has faced the same problems as the rest of europe, and the negative effects could have been much worse without the tough but particularly useful measures taken by the former right-wing government in bucharest.
in writing. - i welcome the criticisms in the report of the ecb's unclear role in the troika and the specifics of the troika's decision-making process. the troika's mandate was perceived as unclear, lacking in transparency and democratic control. i therefore believe that more transparent procedures are needed with regard to the adoption of macroeconomic adjustment programmes and the respect of the control rights conferred on the european parliament. it is also necessary to focus after the first phase of intervention, which led to macroeconomic stabilisation on policies to boost growth, create jobs and improve the social situation, in order to alleviate the tensions caused by troika pressures.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's report on the role and activities of the troika in the four euro area countries covered by the adjustment programmes. it should be noted that the trigger factors for the crisis were fundamentally different in greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus, and their public finances were in a vulnerable situation even before the crisis. although the structural deficits of the four eu countries have been reduced since the start of the financial assistance programmes, it is regrettable that a reduction in the public debt-to-gdp ratio has not been achieved. i believe that too little attention has been paid to the economic and social impact of adjustment strategies. there was also uncertainty about the role of the european central bank (ecb) in the adjustment programmes and a lack of transparency and democratic control over the troika's activities. it is regrettable that the former eurogroup president admitted before the european parliament that the troika's recommendations were agreed without the political implications being analysed in detail. they also question the dual role played by the european commission in the troika, namely both as an agent of the member states and as an institution of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the inquiry into the role and activities of the troika (ecb, commission and imf) in the euro area countries participating in the programme. the troika was composed of the european commission, the european central bank (ecb) and the international monetary fund (imf) and was established following the adoption of the decision of 25[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2010 by the euro area heads of state or government to establish a joint programme and to grant conditional bilateral loans to greece, a decision also based on the recommendations of the ecofin council, which has since become operational for portugal, ireland and cyprus. the troika and its role are laid down in regulation no [nbsp ]472/2013 of 21[nbsp ]may[nbsp ]2013 and are mentioned in the treaty on the european stability mechanism (esm). we stress that the recommendations in the memoranda of understanding are in contradiction with the modernisation policy developed in the form of the lisbon strategy and the europe 2020 strategy. we stress that the memoranda of understanding need to be adapted to take account of the wage-setting practices and systems and the national reform programme of the member state concerned in the context of the union strategy for growth and jobs, as provided for in regulation (eu) no [nbsp ]472/2013 article 7 (1).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, especially as i fully agree that once the economic and budgetary sustainability of the four countries is guaranteed, efforts must focus on social aspects, with particular attention to job creation. we are witnessing unprecedented levels of unemployment in europe and all our efforts must be focused on remedying this dangerous situation in which we find ourselves. however, it is worrying that, when looking closely at the growth prospects and unemployment levels, these countries, which have gone through the imposed austerity programme, have not improved their situation considerably.
in writing. - the report has two main objectives: to be strictly limited to the economic and social realities in greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus, before and after the adjustment programmes, and to integrate the problems and solutions needed into reality. the adjustment programmes and the economic crisis have led to an increase in unemployment and job losses, with a significant impact on public social protection systems. the troika and the member states should establish crisis management mechanisms to increase transparency in decision-making. the commission and the member states should consider public health and education expenditure as an investment in the future, not as a cost that can be cut, and should treat social aspects on an equal footing with economic ones. member states should consider that future labour sector reforms take into account the principle of flexicurity and enhancing the competitiveness of enterprises and do not overlook other key reforms, such as those related to the cost of energy, social dumping, unfair competition, fair and efficient financial systems and tax policies that favour growth and employment. it is also important to develop a social recovery and job creation plan as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on employment and social aspects of the role and work of the troika (ecb, commission and imf) in the euro area countries participating in the programme. the unprecedented economic and financial crisis has exposed the fragility of public finances in some member states. measures under the economic adjustment programmes adopted in response to the situation in greece (may 2010 and march 2012), ireland (december 2010), portugal (may 2011) and cyprus (june 2013) have had a direct and indirect impact on employment levels and living conditions of many people. we recommend that the commission and the member states consider health and education spending not as deductible expenditure but as a public investment in the country's future, which should be respected and increased in order to accelerate economic and social recovery. we invite the commission and the council to give social imbalances and measures to correct them the same attention as they give to macroeconomic imbalances and to ensure that adjustment measures aim at achieving social justice and fostering a balance between growth and employment, implementing structural reforms and fiscal consolidation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it is imperative to increase security both within the union and especially at its borders, especially in view of the crises and instability at our borders. however, there is a significant increase in allocations to the area of home affairs, which confirms the importance the union attaches to the area of freedom, security and justice. in my view, a priority for the period 2014-2020 will be to strengthen security at the borders most exposed to illegal immigration. i am referring specifically to the southern borders, such as those of greece. it is known that the area is the main route for illegal immigrants to the union. so the effort has to be joint, because we cannot leave the burden on one state alone, which is already facing serious economic problems.
in writing. - i voted for the regulation laying down general provisions on the asylum, migration and integration fund and the financial support instrument for police cooperation, crime prevention and combating and crisis management. the union's internal affairs policy aims at creating an area of freedom, security and justice, an area without internal borders, in which persons may enter, move, live and work freely, with full confidence that their rights are fully respected and that their security is guaranteed, in view of common challenges, such as the development of a comprehensive union immigration policy to strengthen the union's competitiveness and social cohesion, the creation of a common european asylum system, the prevention of threats posed by serious and organised crime, and the fight against illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, cybercrime and terrorism. this regulation lays down general rules for the application of the specific regulations as regards the financing of expenditure, partnership, programming, reporting, monitoring and evaluation; the management and control systems to be established by the member states and the verification and closure of accounts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because in recent years efforts have been made at union level to advance integration in areas relating to the area of freedom, security and justice, and police cooperation is essential to ensuring a climate of security and stability for our citizens. whether it is fraud against the union's interests, trafficking in human beings or other types of cross-border crime, the direct impact is estimated at over eur 165 billion. it's about the direct effects, because the indirect ones probably lead to over a trillion dollars in damages. in my view, tackling cybercrime should be at the top of the list of member states' authorities. not only do such crimes harm european citizens, but they often endanger the very national security of eu countries.
in writing. - i voted for this report because 'crime, and in particular organised crime, is a serious threat to the security of european citizens'. police cooperation between member states, but also between them and third countries, is an instrument without which criminal phenomena which have become transnational in nature cannot be effectively combated. the instruments for financial support for police cooperation, crime prevention and combating and crisis management constitute, together with the asylum instrument, the pillars of the internal security fund within the eu's multiannual financial framework. the commission has identified specific objectives to prevent and combat organised crime, strengthen cooperation between member states' authorities and with other third countries, and protect the population and critical infrastructure, which are translated into operational objectives. in addition to the ec proposals, the rapporteur has amended the original ec provision in favour of national programmes, in relation to eu actions, given the desire for greater involvement of all member states in this process of combating the scourge of organised crime.
in writing. - criminal organisations pose a serious threat to the security of european citizens and to the development of the internal market. cooperation between police forces, member states and third countries is an essential tool for effectively combating crime, which has now become transnational. the financial support instrument for police cooperation, prevention, crime prevention and crisis management therefore constitutes a pillar of the internal security fund in the multiannual financial framework of the european union 2014-2020, which complements the isec and cips funds.
in writing. - welcomes the vote by the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation establishing, as part of the internal security fund, the financial support instrument for police cooperation, crime prevention and combating and crisis management; as organised crime at european level is a real threat to citizens' safety, police cooperation between eu member states, as well as with third countries, plays a very important role. that is why financial assistance under this instrument should finance the exchange of information and access to information, as well as actions to prevent crime and serious cross-border crime such as terrorism, drug trafficking, child exploitation or trafficking in human beings and arms. as regards measures in and in relation to third countries , i consider that, on the grounds of coherence, they should be linked to the other actions financed under the geographical and thematic instruments of external assistance. last but not least, i believe that common indicators are needed to measure the extent to which the specific objectives of this instrument have been met.
in writing. - the fund for financial support for police cooperation, crime prevention and control and crisis management is a vital instrument for increasing security in the union. we need to strengthen cooperation between member states and european agencies, and also between them and third countries and international organisations, in order to manage security-related risks and crises effectively. according to a report published by eurostat in 2013, the number of offences increased in 12 member states between 2005 and 2010. the same situation is found across the union's borders, where the report shows that in turkey the total number of crimes recorded by the police increased by 57% between 2007 and 2010. however, the previous funds for the period 2007-2013 were under-used by the member states. more involvement by them and an appropriate use of the resources available through this fund by the competent national authorities is needed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing, as part of the internal security fund, the financial support instrument for police cooperation, crime prevention and combating and crisis management. in order to promote the implementation of the internal security strategy and to ensure that it becomes an operational reality, appropriate union financial support should be provided to member states through the establishment and management of an internal security fund. the overall resources allocated to the implementation of the instrument amount to eur 1[nbsp ]004 million in current prices. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire and repair of furniture, furniture, equipment and appliances, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire and repair of furniture, furniture, equipment and appliances, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the cost of repairs and alterations. the amount of eur 662 million shall be allocated to the member states as follows: (a) 30% in proportion to the size of their total population; (b) 10% in proportion to the size of their territory; (c) 15% in proportion to the number of passengers and 10% in proportion to the volume of goods (in tonnes) transiting international airports and seaports; (d) 35% in inverse proportion to gross domestic product (purchasing power standard per capita).
in writing. - romania has probably the highest standards of security at its external borders. despite this, we are prevented for political reasons from entering the schengen area. some member states invoke reasons that have absolutely nothing to do with effective border management. do the actions of the socialist majority in the summer of 2012 that attempted to unlawfully overthrow the constitutional order have anything to do with protecting the union's borders? the answer is obvious, but it seems that the principle of loyal cooperation is not applied consistently in some member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this fundamental text for the european union's policy on immigration and border controls. the internal security borders and visas fund sets up an integrated financial framework for policies related to immigration and the security of the union's external borders, while encouraging the fight against irregular immigration and the promotion of legal immigration. several elements of the text represent important advances for parliament. in particular, we were able to include a reference to the need for all actions of the union and member states financed by the fund to respect international human rights obligations and international maritime law during maritime border surveillance actions. finally, the fund will not explicitly refer to the proposal for [nbsp]smart borders[nbsp], following the suspension of negotiations on this issue and due to the uncertainty about the outcome of the ongoing process. in addition, our efforts will allow the resources originally earmarked for this package to be reallocated to other actions (of the union or the member states) in the event that it is not adopted by the co-legislators.
in writing. - the commission proposal proposes a regulation establishing, within the framework of the internal security fund, a financial support instrument for external borders and visas. it is necessary to ensure consistent union policies towards third countries and to define clearly the role of the european external action service also with regard to all actions undertaken within the framework of the eu's internal security policy. the border control measures financed by the fund must in no case lead to violations of fundamental rights and must also ensure the proper protection of the rights of asylum seekers and refugees, as well as adequate protection of our citizens and their security.
in writing. - i support the introduction of the new internal security fund which will be used to monitor and improve the infrastructure of the european union's external borders. we need very good coordination between member states to implement the common it system for the external borders of the european union, which will monitor border crossings and detect illegal border crossing activity. in 2012, 486 cases of illegal entry were recorded at land border crossing points, which represents a significant increase of 208% compared to 2011. in the same year, 3 072 persons tried to use fraudulent documents to cross the external land borders of the union, 140% more than in 2011. i call on the european commission to monitor the use of funds for the computerised system for external borders and visas to ensure that they are used effectively and make a real contribution to the joint monitoring by member states at the external border of the union.
in writing. - we are facing unprecedented problems at the union's external borders. the aftermath of the arab spring, the ongoing conflict in syria and, in particular, the escalation of tensions in ukraine are exposing the union's external borders to new challenges. we need uniform and effective control of external borders by implementing common measures with high security standards, allowing interoperability through the convergence of systems in the member states. the change of political regimes in north africa has attracted new waves of migrants with the eu as their preferred destination. border police are facing unprecedented situations. i therefore consider it a priority to prepare them in the field of human rights to face the new realities. the protection of personal data should also be ensured in the context of external border control and surveillance. information systems used for the management of the security of the external borders are obliged to respect the fundamental rights of citizens. member states with external borders and neighbouring third countries may implement programmes comprising joint actions, using the operational capacity of the frontex agency, with a view to enhancing border security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing, as part of the internal security fund, the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas. the general objective of the instrument is to contribute to ensuring a high level of security within the union while facilitating legitimate travel through uniform and high-quality external border control and the efficient processing of schengen visas, while respecting the union's commitments on fundamental freedoms and human rights. the overall resources for the implementation of the instrument are eur 2[nbsp ]760 million in current prices. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors, as well as the purchase of furniture and equipment for the reception of visitors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because communications networks and information systems have become ubiquitous and their security is an increasingly important concern for each of us, given that it often affects us directly. in this case too, an exchange of information, but also a strengthened cooperation mechanism at union level, would facilitate and enable the prevention, detection and response to potential threats. this is because an attack on key information systems can have major consequences for the delivery of services vital to the well-being of european citizens, especially in the context of alarming statistics: cybercrime causes annual losses of around eur 290 billion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on a high level of network and information security at community level. networks and information systems play a vital role in european society. the security of information systems is thus essential for guaranteeing the freedom and overall security of the citizens of the european union, but also for the smooth running of economic and social activities and, in particular, for the smooth running of the internal market of the european union. i welcome the idea of implementing at eu level a cooperation mechanism that will allow for the exchange of information and for preventive coordination on the establishment of a common level of network and information security at community level.
in writing. - european parliament legislative resolution of 13[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014 on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the union (com (2013) 0048 c7-0035/2013 2013/0027 (cod)). networks together with information systems and services play a vital role in society. their reliability and security are essential for the freedom and general security of the citizens of the union, as well as for economic activities and social well-being and, in particular, for the functioning of the internal market. the directive adopted at first reading lays down measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security (nis) in the union. to this end, the directive: (a) lays down obligations for all member states with regard to the prevention, management and response to risks and incidents affecting network and information systems; (b) establish a cooperation mechanism between member states to ensure uniform application of this directive throughout the union and, where necessary, coordinated, efficient and effective management and response to risks and incidents affecting network and information systems, with the participation of the relevant stakeholders; (c) lay down the security requirements for market operators.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, for the proper functioning of capital markets and for the achievement of an integrated financial services market in the eu, harmonisation of financial reporting and auditing rules worldwide is essential. so i welcome the decision to adopt a set of international accounting standards. i say this because if the eu had introduced its own set of regional financial reporting standards, fragmentation at the global level would have been accentuated, even if the eu legislation had been harmonised. lastly, given the significant costs that can result from fraudulent acts through financial reporting, the regulation has a key role to play in improving the conditions for the functioning of the internal market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing a union programme to support specific activities in the field of financial reporting and auditing for the period 2014-2020. a union programme is hereby established for the period from 1[nbsp ]january[nbsp ]2014 to 31[nbsp ]december[nbsp ]2020 to support the activities of bodies which contribute to the achievement of the union's policy objectives in the field of financial reporting and auditing. the programme shall cover the activities of developing or providing input to the development, application, evaluation or monitoring of standards or oversight of standard-setting processes in support of the implementation of union policies in the field of financial reporting and auditing carried out by the international financial reporting standards foundation (ifrs foundation), the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) or the public interest oversight board (piob). the funding under the programme shall take the form of annual operating grants. the financial envelope for the implementation of the programme for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 43[nbsp ]176[nbsp ]000 in current prices. the indicative breakdown of the financial package is as follows: (a) for efrag: eur 9303000; (b) for the ifrs foundation: eur 31632000; (c) for the piob: eur 2241000.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it clarifies the application of directive 1999/5/ec and eliminates unnecessary administrative burdens for businesses and administrations, thus increasing the coherence of union law in the field of placing radio equipment on the market. however, economic operators are responsible for the conformity of products in order to guarantee a high level of protection of the health and safety of consumers. in addition, they are obliged to ensure that products from third countries entering the union market comply with the requirements of the directive. it would be useful in the future to develop a new marking system to identify the origin of products and guarantee their traceability, in order to better inform consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment. the number of mobile devices and wireless applications has grown tremendously in recent years. this leads to the risk of interference between different products. it is therefore essential that radio spectrum is used efficiently. i welcome the idea of introducing certain horizontal and vertical changes with the aim of avoiding unnecessary administrative burdens, which could particularly affect smes, while ensuring a very high level of consumer protection, the most efficient use of radio spectrum, improving market surveillance, achieving a higher level of consistency with the new legislative framework (ncl) and eliminating any inconsistencies in the text that could lead to legal uncertainty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment. the directive establishes a regulatory framework for the making available on the market and putting into service of radio equipment in the union. according to the adopted directive, radio equipment shall be constructed in such a way as to ensure: (a) the protection of the health and safety of persons and domestic animals and the protection of property, including the objectives relating to the safety requirements laid down in the directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits but without voltage limits; (b) an adequate level of electromagnetic compatibility in accordance with the directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility. equipment that intentionally emits or receives radio waves for the purpose of radio communication or radiodetermination systematically uses the radio frequency spectrum. in order to ensure efficient use of radio spectrum to avoid harmful interference, all such equipment should fall within the scope of this directive. the directive does not apply to radio equipment used exclusively in activities related to public security, defence, security or in the activities of the state in the field of criminal law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. although the economic recovery is still modest, the eu budget has a duty to reinforce this recovery, primarily through strategic investment that is growth-generating. as i have said on every occasion, our priority must be, in the short, medium and long term, to improve employment and, most importantly, to reduce youth unemployment. to this end, the best possible coordination between the different eu funds, but also between these funds and expenditure at national level, must be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2015 budget, section iii commission. we underline the importance of the european structural and investment funds, which, taken together, represent one of the largest expenditure headings in the eu budget; we also underline the need to invest in areas such as education and mobility, research and innovation, smes and entrepreneurship, in order to promote eu competitiveness and contribute to job creation especially among young people and people over 50. we support the importance of investments in renewable energy, the digital agenda, infrastructure, information and communication technologies, cross-border connectivity, and the wider use of 'innovative financial instruments', in particular in terms of long-term investments. we consider it particularly important to invest in strengthening, modernising and developing eu industry as a key engine for job creation and growth. 2015 will play an important role in the successful implementation of the new multiannual programmes for the period 2014-2020, as it is the second year of the new multiannual financial framework, and we support the need for all programmes to be operational and running at full capacity as soon as possible.
unless something big and unexpected happens in the next few days, the results of this weekend's referendum and the protection of the russians will lead to the annexation of the crimean peninsula by the russian federation. we've already discussed the possible consequences, but perhaps it's worth analyzing the causes as well. the reasons that have put russia, ukraine and the european union in this situation. could the eu have handled the situation differently? could we have been more committed to a faster ukrainian approach? maybe yanukovych would have signed the association agreement? ukraine, did the ukrainian leadership do something wrong? do ethnic russians feel rightly disadvantaged in this new ukraine? is it the hungarian minority whose monuments are being burned or the minorities that have not been recognized by the old or new ukrainian leadership? it's all question marks and conditional modes. but i think that some of the chancellors of the other member states have similar questions. the eu has no choice but to make the most of the current situation on the crimean peninsula. but the lessons of this case will influence our future decisions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that from all the tragic events of the last few weeks in ukraine, a positive lesson can be drawn. i think no one is under any illusion anymore about russia's true intentions and its so-called commitment to promoting peace. the russian federation has violated a whole set of international rules and regulations that have been followed since world war ii. the serious thing is that if the west does not take a firm stand, it sets a very dangerous precedent, especially for moscow's other neighbors. russia cannot believe that its actions can go unpunished regardless of the consequences. the ukrainians have chosen the european path, even with bloodshed, and russia cannot mock their hopes and sacrifices.
in writing. - the crimean crisis shows us once again that russia has not lost its imperialist instincts and soviet appetites to intervene by force and violate the sovereignty of other states. the invasion of russian troops on ukrainian territory is a brutal armed action, which has no justification in the light of international regulations and treaties. the stated objective of russia to protect the russian-speaking population of crimea is completely unfounded, as this population has not faced and does not face any danger. if this population were to face danger, the coincidence of the invasion with the pro-european takeover of ukraine is striking. it is important to ensure secure energy resources for ukraine, independent of russia, to help ukraine to pay its debts to gazprom and to provide financial assistance to stabilise the country's economic and financial situation.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on russia's invasion of ukraine as russia's act of aggression to invade crimea is a violation of ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as a breach of international law and russia's obligations as a signatory to the budapest memorandum. the territorial integrity of ukraine was guaranteed by russia, the united states and the united kingdom through the budapest memorandum signed with ukraine. according to the constitution of ukraine, the autonomous republic of crimea can hold referendums only on issues of a local nature and not on the modification of the internationally recognized borders of ukraine. we emphasize that a referendum on the issue of joining the russian federation is therefore considered illegitimate and illegal, as any other referendum that contravenes the constitution of ukraine and international law. we strongly condemn russia's act of aggression to invade crimea, which is an inseparable part of ukraine, recognized as such by the russian federation and the international community. we call for the immediate de-escalation of the crisis through the immediate withdrawal of all military forces illegally present on the territory of ukraine and urge full respect for international law and applicable conventional obligations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because one of the advantages of the lisbon treaty is that it gives increased powers to the european parliament. after all, meps are the only elected representatives of the european citizens. i must point out, however, that the new powers which the treaty gives us give parliament a certain degree of control over the european commission's acts, but not over its composition. in practice, parliament votes for the commission, but the chances of sanctioning it, or even dismissing it in exceptional cases, are reduced to a minimum. the treaty also does not require that the vote of european citizens be respected when nominating a candidate for the presidency of the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the implementation of the lisbon treaty strengthens the democratic prerogatives of the eu, in particular by regulating more precisely the interinstitutional relations between the european parliament and the european commission. there is a need to deepen european integration and protect the community method, and to enhance the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions, in particular the commission. i therefore support the proposal for the nomination of the candidates for president of the commission by european political parties, thus creating a closer link between the vote of the citizens and the election of the president of the commission by the european parliament. in addition to the need for democratic legitimacy of eu fora in the context of the identity crisis of the european project, it must be borne in mind that the treaty of lisbon has considerably strengthened the role of the european parliament, conferring on it important new powers with regard to eu legislation and international agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, in my opinion, the right to property is a fundamental right that should be guaranteed at the universal level. as the report shows, over a billion people live on property to which they have no official right. what's even more worrying is that in some regions, even those who theoretically have such rights could lose them, especially in the context of abuse by the authorities. the existence of customary rules that often replace legal regulations creates a climate of legal uncertainty, especially for right-holders, and thus inhibits economic growth, because, for example, a farmer will only be incentivised to cultivate his land if it has legal stability and legal predictability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of property rights, property regimes and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development in developing countries. property rights can be defined as the rules of conventional or customary law governing the conditions under which individuals, communities, public and private actors acquire and retain access to tangible and intangible assets. the commission notes that the land use rights of the beneficiaries are not limited to the land use rights of the beneficiaries, but are also limited to the land use rights of the beneficiaries. the obligations of investors should be defined in clear terms and should be enforceable, for example by including sanctioning mechanisms in cases of human rights violations. all land transactions should also include a legal obligation to sell a certain minimum percentage of the produced crops on the local market. we stress that land policies must guarantee secure land rights for different ethnic, social or generational groups in a fair manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, although the union is the largest provider of development assistance, i believe that member states do not coordinate enough in this area. this is likely to lead to duplication of effort and waste of funds, especially in a context where they are limited. moreover, i believe that intra-community coordination is not enough, but that joint planning is also needed with our partners such as the united states, japan and canada. i also think that we need to link assistance with our priority objectives, such as reducing carbon emissions. last but not least, i would also like to support the rapporteur's view that the least developed countries should gradually open their markets to trade with the union.
in writing. - i voted for the regulation laying down general provisions on the asylum, migration and integration fund and the financial support instrument for police cooperation, crime prevention and control and management. the eu strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy, adopted in 2012, states that the eu will promote human rights in all areas of its external action without exception. we call on the eu, the member states and their partner institutions to ensure that the new post-2015 framework includes a policy coherence for development (pcd) objective that allows for the development of reliable indicators to measure the progress of donors and southern partners and to assess the impact of various policies on development. we ask the commission to regularly commission independent ex-post evaluations of the development impact of key policies. we stress the need to improve the commission's impact assessment system by presenting the cpd explicitly and ensuring that development becomes the fourth central element of the analysis, alongside economic, social and environmental effects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution and i want to make it clear from the outset that the right to education in the mother tongue is in my opinion a fundamental right, although the report does not mention it. although we adopted a resolution on violations of this right in the transnistrian region, things do not seem to have improved. separatist abuses continue and the 5+2 talks are stalled, confirming once again the inefficiency of the 5+2 format. those who suffer most are the young people who only want to study in their own language.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution on the setting of the priorities of the european union at the un human rights council in march 2014. human trafficking in egypt, especially in the sinai, continues despite the country's new constitution that should punish any act of human rights violation. between 2009 and 2013, between 25,000 and 35,000 people fell victim to human trafficking in sinai, and were also subjected to deprivation of liberty and torture. during that same period, traffickers made a profit of about $622 million. the value of a ransom can be as high as $40,000 per person. however, the authorities are delaying the implementation of the 2013 trafficking in persons act and no charges have been registered under these laws so far this year. i call on the un human rights council to support the egyptian authorities in strictly enforcing the laws of the new constitution, in order to dismantle and punish human trafficking networks.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the eu's priorities for the 25th session of the un human rights council. respect for, and promotion and guarantee of, the universality of human rights are an integral part of the european union's ethical and legal acquis and one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. we call on all states to ratify the third optional protocol to the un convention on the rights of the child, which will create opportunities for children to bring their complaints to the committee. we call on the eu to support the actions to implement the ohchr report on effective measures and best practices to ensure the promotion and protection of human rights in the context of peaceful protest, in particular by supporting efforts to develop the international legal framework on the right to peaceful assembly. we reiterate the call on the eu and the member states to promote access to adequate housing as a fundamental right. we welcome the resolution adopted by the unhrc in september 2013 on the right to safe drinking water and sanitation.
the author. - mr president, i was the one who proposed that this item be placed on the agenda. i have received the support of the epp and then of the other political groups and i would like to take this opportunity to thank them. why did i bring this up? because while our attention is now focused on the russian invasion of crimea, i think we also need to be aware of the serious violations of human rights and the rule of law that are taking place in russia. the latest example is the very verdict on february 24th regarding eight of the bolotnaya square protesters, protesters who took to the streets in may 2012 along with tens of thousands of russians, to simply express their dissatisfaction with putin's re-election. the whole process is revolting. the charges were clearly politically motivated, as an expression of contempt for difference of opinion, the procedural rights of the accused were not respected, and the sentences handed down are clearly disproportionate. a new wave of arrests followed, in fact, after the verdict. opposition leaders boris nemtsov and alexei navalny were again thrown in jail for ten days. navalny is now under house arrest and an electronic bracelet monitors his movements. another accused in connection with the events of may 2012, mikhail koshenko, was sentenced last year to forced psychiatric treatment. all of these are practices of silencing dissent, reminiscent of the soviet period and the treatment of political dissidents, and therefore have nothing to do with democracy. i think we need to redefine our strategy with russia. i personally don't think, as i've said here, that at this point, under putin, russia can still be considered a strategic partner of the european union. these practices take it out of the realm of some frequented democracies.
in writing. – the actions of the russian authorities in the bolotnaya square case are absolutely unacceptable. following this protest, which was held in may 2012 in response to alleged irregularities in the 2011 parliamentary elections, 400 people were detained. eight people have now received prison sentences. amnesty international called these cases ‘politically motivated show trials’ and indicated that the bolotnaya protesters had suffered abuse at the hands of the russian police. stepan zimin, one of those recently convicted, was accused of throwing stones at police; however, there is no video evidence of this, nor is there any reliable witness testimony to corroborate the story. mikhail kosenko, who was convicted in october 2013, was sentenced to indefinite forced psychiatric treatment. though he suffers from a psychiatric disorder, he has been living normally for many years; yet, the court inexplicably decided that he was not mentally sound. additionally, the policeman who was the supposed victim of kosenko could not identify him during his trial. politically motivated abuses by the russian judiciary and police cannot be condoned. if this trend continues, it could have major repercussions for russia’s relations with the eu. as such, i strongly urge the russian government to take all necessary steps to promptly fulfil its legal and humanitarian obligations.
, in writing. directive 2001/20/ec aimed to simplify and harmonise the administrative rules on clinical trials in the european union. however, experience shows that a harmonised approach to the regulation of clinical trials has only been partially achieved. in order to include a sufficient number of patients for such trials, it may be necessary to involve all member states. the new procedures for authorising clinical trials should encourage the inclusion of as many member states as possible. therefore, i consider that, in order to simplify the procedures for submitting applications, the multiple submission of largely identical information should be avoided and replaced by the submission of a single application file through a single portal to all member states concerned. the portal should reduce unnecessary red tape so that not only sponsors and academic researchers carrying out multinational research, but also public authorities can benefit from its use.
in writing. increasing transparency around studies will help us understand diseases better and increase the chances of identifying better treatments in much shorter time. it seems that we already have examples of this, and i hope that in the near future we will have more and more pharmaceutical companies that are open to better communication with colleagues and the general public. access to this information will increase the chances of finding drugs for rare diseases or for those infectious diseases that do not receive enough attention from companies. there is no doubt that we need to develop new vaccines, new medicines to help us fight infectious diseases. such cooperation between pharmaceutical companies would indeed allow the development of medicines based on health needs and not just on economic interests. in many cases, we need medicines that are affordable and that are better tolerated by patients. the publication of both successful and unsuccessful clinical trials is essential to leverage the limited resources of companies and member states, especially in a time of financial constraints.
mr president, as a liberal, i share deeply the objectives of the commission proposal to create a single telecoms market. i strongly believe that ict will be the one key answer to our economic and social challenges, driving higher productivity and growth. as rapporteur on the roaming ii regulation and shadow on the other roaming reports, i can only say how satisfied i am that parliament managed to vote for the end of roaming charges by the end of 2015. i have long been advocating the fact that the industry should – and could – change its business model in order to eliminate roaming charges. i also welcome the fact that parliament strongly defended an open internet which has now been safeguarded in law. other provisions are also major improvements, for example a new spectrum management which should make 4g[nbsp ]mobile more accessible to consumers and to cross-border investment in its operation.
, in writing. the last telecoms package in 2009 brought real progress both in the evolution towards a single telecoms market and in consumer protection. but this is a sector that is evolving very fast, and in europe in 2014 telecoms markets are still dominated by national operators, investment in infrastructure and innovation is not sufficiently encouraged, and citizens still pay roaming charges when travelling within the eu, even though we no longer have border controls and only these charges remind us that we have crossed the border. the commission's proposal is absolutely necessary. the proposed measures on coordination in spectrum allocation will increase consumers' access to high-performance services and fast telecommunications networks such as 4g and beyond. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. last but not least, i strongly support strengthening the rights of consumers to change operators and their access to comparable information on the services offered by operators. the end of roaming in the eu in 2015 is a victory and shows that europe is responding to the concerns of its citizens. i hope the council will follow suit.
in writing. i welcome the proposal for a regulation laying down measures on the european single market for electronic communications and the achievement of a connected continent. i welcome the agreement reached, in particular on the abolition of roaming charges and the management of radio spectrum. by eliminating roaming charges, european citizens will be able to fully benefit from the european single communications market and use mobile phones in europe as they do at home. i support the principle of 'net neutrality', meaning that all types of traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or intervention, regardless of the sender, recipient, type, content, device, service or application. i regret that the budget for the communications sector allocated through the connecting europe facility has been reduced. the european union and the member states need to invest in and ensure 100% broadband coverage in order to ensure that all european citizens fully benefit from the european single market in electronic communications. we call on member states to use all funding opportunities, including through the european investment bank, to complement the funds allocated through the cef for the deployment of broadband networks.
the stockholm program is nearing the end of its life. based on our experience, we need to think about what we're going to do. in addition to the experience gained over the past five years, the recent situation in ukraine and its consequences must also be taken into account. we must look to remedy the lack of security that citizens have expressed more and more clearly. in the context of migration and asylum, focus on opportunities in the workforce. i agree with the commission that europe has become more open and secure through the creation of an asylum system, the fight against corruption and cybercrime, and i acknowledge that the strengthening of the schengen area has helped this, but i still consider the obstacles to romania and bulgaria to be unjustified.
member of the commission. - madam president, let me first thank ms ayala sender for her work on this report. i am glad to see that parliament recognises the progress that we have made in the fight against fraud. i agree that there is always room for further improvement and that this further improvement needs to encompass two aspects. we need to improve as far as our actual measures to protect taxpayers’ money are concerned, but we also need to continue improving our reporting on fraud. on the first point, i am convinced that the key instrument is the european public prosecutor’s office that the commission proposed in july last year. if we want to make tangible progress we must make sure that this office is being set up as an independent european structure with the right competences. parliament’s support on this, in this report and in your recent interim report, is crucial and much appreciated. on the second point, i would like to remind members that we have already taken on board several of the requests that parliament has made in the past. this includes, for example, the detailed analysis of fraudulent irregularities. but we will look into additional possibilities to make our reporting even more meaningful in the future. this is the last anti-fraud report by this parliament and the last one to be published under the mandate of this commission. i therefore would like to take the opportunity to take a brief look beyond this report at what we have achieved over this last four and a half years. i think i can say that during this period we have taken unprecedented legal and legislative measures to improve the protection of our taxpayers’ money. this series of measures was kicked off in 2011 when the commission adopted its multiannual anti-fraud strategy. initially addressed to the commission services, the strategy was pivotal in raising fraud awareness, including among managing and audit authorities. moreover, based on the strategy, specific anti-fraud provisions were introduced into the new spending programmes for 2014-2020. a second milestone in stepping up our fight against fraud was marked by the reorganisation of olaf in 2012 and the adoption of the new olaf regulation in 2013. both have streamlined olaf procedures and increased the effectiveness of the office. at the same time, they reinforced the procedural guarantees for the persons concerned. in 2012 and 2013, the commission addressed the criminal law side of the protection of the eu’s financial interests. apart from the proposal on the european public prosecutor’s office that i have already mentioned, we also proposed a directive on the fight against fraud by means of criminal law. this directive should remove loopholes in member states’ anti-fraud legislation that impair the effective prosecution of fraudsters. i therefore count on members’ support when they vote on this proposal. finally, we have also taken a number of important measures to protect specifically the revenue side of the eu budget. these were in particular the directives on a quick-reaction mechanism against vat fraud and the reverse charge mechanism, the signature of the fctc protocol on illicit trade in tobacco and our 2013 communication on the fight against tobacco smuggling. cigarette smuggling is a complex phenomenon and we appreciate parliament’s support in our fight. with all these measures, the commission has indeed shaped a new landscape for anti-fraud policy at eu level. i am confident that we will soon be able to reap the benefits of the efforts we have made.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, as rapporteur of the group of the european people's party, i support the prosecution of cases of fraud against european funds and the recovery of the money. however, there are shortcomings, particularly in the member states, which need to be addressed urgently. i'll just mention a few of them. a first shortcoming is the collection of credible and comparable statistics at european level, which is still a difficult process because member states use different criteria for analysis and collection. secondly, the rate of criminal prosecutions initiated by member states on the basis of investigations carried out by olaf is in any event low and, moreover, uneven across member states. thirdly, in the absence of dialogue between olaf and the directorates-general, the financial indicators for rural development excluded 99,83% of cases from the selection procedure for investigations. so, practically all rural development cases went uninvestigated when there was a suspicion of fraud. in addition, i am deeply concerned about the attitude of some member states, which deal with fraudulent irregularities only by applying financial corrections and do not investigate possible crimes. this is unacceptable and encourages fraudsters and endangers the entire european anti-fraud strategy. finally, i asked the commission to publish on its website the beneficiaries of european funds from all member states, given that greater transparency is needed, which is crucial to see fraudulent schemes and to deter, identify and catch them.
in writing. – in 2012, the 31 european decentralised agencies represented an overall budget of more than eur[nbsp ]1.3 billion. as rapporteur for the agencies’ 2010 discharge, i very much welcome the fact that the prevention and management of conflict of interest remained high on the agenda. this issue is of crucial importance for the agencies’ proper management, the citizens’ trust in them and the eu, and for their reputation. in this respect, i fully support regular and effective ex-ante and ex-post controls, having in place strong breach-of-trust procedures including the establishment of clear sanctions, and having revolving door cases properly addressed. i am glad to note that following the special report on conflict of interests issued by the court of auditors and the parliament’s requests, the agencies committed to update their conflict-of-interest policies based on the commission’s guidelines. what we need now is a follow-up special report extending the audit scope to other agencies to assess the progress made in this area. in addition, i demand a higher level of transparency: a declaration of interests and curriculum vitae for all joint undertakings’ and agencies’ management boards members, management staff, external and in-house experts should be publicly available.
mr president, commissioner, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in a market economy. the aviation sector is strongly international. climate action should be taken rapidly, as the global problems caused by aviation emissions can be most effectively managed through an international approach, including the obligation to comply with the same measures or to achieve the same objectives through different measures. the itre and tran committees, on which i am a member, propose that the european union's stop-clock provisions be extended until the icao general assembly in 2016 in order to reach a genuine global agreement that is truly beneficial for the climate and the actors involved. in addition to the adoption of a global agreement, the union's priorities must be to ensure the well-being of the aviation industry, its competitiveness and its operational capabilities in this highly competitive field.
mr president, i support the development of a european payments market that will allow consumers, retailers and other businesses to take full advantage of the benefits of the european union's internal market, including electronic commerce. i consider that legal clarity and a level playing field are needed to promote union-wide services, efficiency and innovation in card-based payment instruments and card-based payment transactions in an offline, online or mobile environment. one of the main practices hindering the functioning of the internal market in card-based and card-based payments is the widespread use of interchange fees, which in most member states are not regulated by law. i support the establishment of uniform technical and commercial requirements applicable to card-based payment transactions carried out in the union where both the payment service provider of the payer and the payment recipient are established in the union. we also call for more transparency on bank fees.
the european union is, first and foremost, 505 million european citizens who share the same values and defend the same fundamental principles. today, the main concern of european citizens is related to the lack of jobs. today, 120 million european citizens are living below the poverty line. today, according to eurostat, over 25 million european citizens are unemployed, with young people being the most affected by the current economic and financial crisis. young europeans want to contribute to the development of society, as previous generations have done. young europeans also want to be more involved in the european debate and to have their views taken into account. member states need to invest in education, health, agriculture, transport, energy and communications infrastructure and in modernising and eco-efficiency of european industry. without a competitive european industry, we cannot provide jobs in europe. in conclusion, the period 2014-2020 must be a period of smart investment and not austerity in europe. this is the answer that european citizens are waiting for.
we have noted with deep concern the strange and unreasonable behavior of a presidential adviser, sebastian lazaroiu, who has shown a presenter of antena 3, a tv channel watched and respected in romania, in the position of presenting news from behind bars. we're now seeing this kind of behavior recur. although targeted by the same television station, the character who breaks all democratic norms is, this time, an mep in the epp group and the one who opens the list of candidates of the popular movement party in the european parliament elections. mr cristian preda, showing a deeply anti-european and anti-democratic attitude, last week called for the closure of antena 3. i want to express my total concern about this kind of behavior, given that freedom of expression is an earned right and cannot be restricted in romania, a country that has adhered to all european democratic values, and when this kind of behavioral deviations occur in people with important public functions, we are obliged to react vehemently.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - mr president, in the current international context, when important events are taking place at the union's borders, european external action must be intensified to respect and preserve the union's fundamental values, in particular respect for human rights, the promotion of equality between people, the prevention of multiple discrimination. this is why solutions need to be found, so that europe itself has common solutions and sends coherent messages. the union must be kept strong and the purposes for which it was created must be strengthened. the relevance and credibility of the union's external action depend on compliance with the principle of coherence between its internal policies, its development objectives and its neighbourhood policy. at the same time, awareness of and strengthening of the role of women in promoting development policies, respecting human rights, supporting conflict prevention and peacebuilding must be increased. i thank commissioner ashton for her support of this subject and for her personal example.
mr president, ... (beginning of speech inaudible). i will now address the military situation in ukraine. russia’s military aggression against ukraine and the subsequent military occupation of crimea have dealt a powerful blow to the current security system in europe, based on the helsinki final act and the cfe treaty, from which russia suspended itself roughly a year before the war in georgia. the probability of a large-scale conventional attack in europe is no longer low. following russia’s military occupation of crimea, it has exponentially increased overnight. the west, challenged by russia in an attempt to recover the so-called losses incurred at the end of the cold war, should speak with one voice in rebuffing russia’s actions. this means that the eu should elaborate a new european security strategy; strengthen cooperation with nato, rapidly finding a solution to the existing blockage; seriously consider the possibility of invoking the mutual assistance clause in article 42 of the lisbon treaty by those members who are not in nato, if such members are the victims of armed aggression against their territory; revise its current stand on defence, proving in practice that defence really matters; rapidly initiate the strategic measures to reduce its energy dependency on russia, and prove that it is ready to accept losses in order to substantiate the seriousness of the message sent to russia. that would instil credibility into the eu’s cfsp. unfortunately, our first round of efforts to positively integrate russia in the international system has failed. however, we should not be discouraged, and we should hope for a responsible russia in the international community. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i have not mentioned anything about iran, but if you think you know that i (really) did, that is your problem. essentially, i would say that we should revise our stance on defence and we have to look at the decisions we took in december to see whether or not they hold water under the new conditions, and demonstrate that defence really matters, because that was the slogan of the december council on defence.
mr president, madam high representative, we hope that this debate on foreign and security policy and defence policy will not be just a theoretical debate, but that it will be the debate that marks clear action in this area. for too long, the cfsp remained a vague, poorly funded and supported instrument, intervening only where member states had already done their job, such as in mali and the central african republic. madam high representative, i do not know whether you have been absent from the solution of the ukrainian problem, but the european union has certainly not been at home in this area and this proves how little we have done for a concrete policy. perhaps many of us ignored the lessons of history, perhaps many of us thought that there could be no return to archaic nationalist ambitions, but there were, with the invasion of crimea. this is not to be ignored. maybe a lot of us were wrong. we are talking today about the eastern borders and - i am putting this in parentheses - how wrong we were when we artificially delayed the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area! perhaps we can succeed with moldova, to make the project of moldova's accession to the european union much faster, for our good and the good of the moldovan citizens.
mr president, today we are discussing the very good report by my colleague, arnaud danjean, on the comprehensive approach of the european union and the coherence of its external action, as we approach the end of the current mandate and are trying to see how we have succeeded or not in achieving coherence in the union's external action. the first thing i would like to say in this connection is that i have tabled a number of amendments in the committee on development which i am glad to see in the final text. in particular, i will insist on references to the global approach joint communication adopted in december 2013, which, in the post-lisbon context, focuses on the relationship between security and development. i particularly emphasise this aspect, which says that the approach must cover all stages of conflict, with a focus on prevention and strengthening early warning systems. on the other hand, and this is my second observation, i think that in our foreign policy we have to take into account the lessons of the experiences that we are going through, and i will give an example in particular. i believe that at this moment the european union cannot remain an observer in the 5+2 format on transnistria. for twenty years we have been witnessing a powerless consolidation of russia's position, which deeply affects moldova's interests, including in the perspective of its european integration.
in writing. the european strategy on security and common defence policy must address all the eu's vulnerabilities in the current global context from reducing energy dependence to tackling anti-european trends and worrying gaps between member states. the economic crisis has caused socio-political tensions that risk undermining the values that underpin the european project, such as the right to free movement. a divided europe risks failing to meet geopolitical challenges, and the ukrainian crisis is a stark warning of this. poverty in the eu's eastern flank countries is a direct threat to european security. the persisting underdevelopment in some of the new member states has serious consequences for solidarity and confidence in the european project. the policy of closing doors to certain categories of european citizens, increasingly promoted by extremist forces in the union's founding countries, risks amplifying discrimination and the socioeconomic frustrations of citizens in the new member states. these tensions can seriously weaken the european union in the face of potential external threats. i therefore call for massive and urgent eu support to launch a process of economic development in romania, bulgaria and the other fragile states in the east of the eu.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to welcome the agreement reached on the revision of the regulation on the export control system for dual-use items. i believe that better use of dual-use items is necessary, as they can be used for both civilian and military purposes, with the risk of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the regulation will thus allow for the exchange of information and the process of updating the checklists to be made more efficient and for a better assessment of any risks. one of those risks is the mass surveillance of citizens, a serious breach of human rights and a undermining of the security of the union as a whole. the recent mass surveillance scandals should therefore serve as a wake-up call for the european union and lead to stricter supervision of exports of certain information and communication technologies used for surveillance, monitoring, tracking, tracing and censorship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the ageing of the population is and unfortunately will remain a topical issue on the european agenda. in addition, we note that the employment rate among this category is below 50% and decreasing, which is another cause for concern. the european social fund can make a direct and decisive contribution to the fate of these people, but we need clear strategies, as well as data and studies to enable us to assess the use of available resources. last but not least, the measures taken by both the commission and, in particular, the member states to combat age discrimination are very important in this area.
in writing. - an ageing population, changing working conditions, persistent incentives for early retirement, the financial crisis, changes in production patterns and the demand for increased competitiveness call for firm action to enable older workers to remain active in the labour market when they want to and after they reach retirement age. maintaining the employability of older workers and keeping a high proportion of the population in employment until old age is essential to be able to cope with demographic challenges and to achieve the eu employment target of 75% for the 20-64 age group by 2020. member states should apply and supplement the common esf indicators accordingly to determine the number of older workers, men and women, who have taken part in esf-funded projects, with a focus on adapting to work, acquiring new skills, improving the labour market situation of workers or finding a job, how many of them have gained new qualifications, improved their labour market situation or found a job after benefiting from esf-funded projects.
in writing. - due to the ageing of the population, changing working conditions and production patterns and above all the financial crisis, strong action is needed to enable older workers to remain active in the labour market. the use of an older workforce and the extension of working life can make a positive contribution to recovery and future growth, although this must be mitigated by the necessary opportunity to secure jobs for our young people. the measures under the european social fund (esf) are therefore more important than ever for the implementation of the new programmes starting in 2014.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusions and recommendations of the european court of auditors, which i hope the member states and the european commission will take into account. older workers are a vulnerable category; it is regrettable that there is no data at the level of operational programmes on the effectiveness of the european social fund expenditure for this category. it is of concern that in some member states there is no consistency in the definition of age groups at the level of the different operational programmes. in general, i think we need more transparency when we talk about spending european funds, but also better defined impact indicators, in order to have a correct measure of how efficiently and effectively the european social fund is spent for each social category and target group.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on special report no 25/2012 of the european court of auditors: are there instruments in place to monitor the effectiveness of the european social fund funding for older workers? in 2012, the employment rate in the eu in the 55-64 age group was below 50% (54.4% for men and 41.8% for women). we call on the commission to put more emphasis on combating age discrimination against older workers and to use its powers under existing legal instruments to combat age discrimination. we call on the member states to apply and complement the common esf indicators in the next programming period accordingly, in order to establish the number of older workers, men and women, who have taken part in esf-funded projects, with a focus on adapting to the workplace, acquiring new skills, improving the labour market situation of workers or finding a job, and how many of them have gained new qualifications, improved their labour market situation or found a job after benefiting from esf-funded projects.
in writing. - i voted for the report. i consider the statements made by the italian mep to be a form of insult to the roma community. at the same time, i do not believe that such statements are directly related to the mandate of the mep, especially since they were not made in the plenary of the european parliament. that is why i think it is right that the judiciary should rule on this case and that the mep's immunity should not be defended by parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament decision on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of mario borghezio. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of prosecution, detention or legal proceedings for opinions or votes expressed in the performance of their duties. the purpose of this provision is to ensure in principle the freedom of expression of members of the european parliament, but this right to freedom of expression does not authorize slander, defamation, incitement to hatred or insult to the honour of other persons. statements made by deputy mario borghezio refer to alleged characteristics of the roma ethnic group. at the same time, the statements he is accused of exceeding the tone that generally characterizes political debate and, moreover, are deeply anti-parliamentary in nature. they are contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and therefore cannot be considered to have been made in the exercise of the duties of a member of the european parliament. this decision therefore decides not to protect the immunities and privileges of mr mario borghezio.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and its recommendations because i believe that all those involved in the death of sergei magnitsky must be held accountable. if the russian judiciary has chosen not to clarify things, it is necessary that at least the european union takes a series of measures to sanction the guilty. the freezing of financial assets or travel restrictions are very useful tools to put pressure on the russian judiciary. it must shed light on this case.
in writing. - i voted for the recommendation to establish common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case. the arrest of sergei magnitsky, followed by his death in custody, is a well-documented and significant case of human rights and fundamental freedoms violations in russia. russia, as a member of several international organisations, is committed to the protection and promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. at the same time, the eu has repeatedly provided additional assistance and expertise to help russia modernise and comply with its constitutional and legal order in line with council of europe standards. however, there is a growing need for a firm, coherent and comprehensive eu policy towards russia, coupled with unhesitating and fair criticism, including sanctions and restrictive measures. the visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case and other restrictive measures do not constitute in themselves judicial sanctions in the traditional sense, but are nevertheless a political signal of eu concern addressed to a wider public and thus continue to be a necessary and legitimate foreign policy instrument.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that at the level of international organisations, especially those with political relevance, the union must speak with one voice and that the priorities must be common. only then can we become more credible, and only then can we count internationally when major decisions are made. i welcome the fact that these priorities include the eradication of torture, the principle of the responsibility to protect, and post-2015 development assistance. last but not least, i am pleased that climate change continues to occupy a particularly high place on the political agenda of the european union. it is clear that without a global commitment, the achievement of carbon reduction targets is impossible.
in writing. - i voted for the ep recommendation on the 69th session of the united nations general assembly. as the world's leading donor, the eu supports both stepping up efforts to meet the 2015 deadline for the millennium development goals (mdgs) and a common approach to poverty eradication and sustainable development. i support the recommendations to the council such as: • to promote the integration of human rights and fundamental freedoms into all aspects of un activity; • to call on the un general assembly members to make full transparency in corporate reporting and the fight against corruption, money laundering, tax havens, illicit financial flows and harmful tax structures a top priority on the agenda of international financial and development institutions; • ensure that poverty eradication remains a priority in the new single and integrated framework, alongside the fight against inequality and the promotion of sustainable development, food security and gender equality; • work towards a single, comprehensive and integrated framework for the post-2015 mdgs with clear benchmarks, including the key aspects of development and sustainability; • ensure that this framework is universal and global, promoting prosperity, human rights and well-being for all.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because the role of the media in promoting common values and principles of the european union on a global scale is essential. the establishment of a european radio service worldwide can act as a means of promoting democratic values and universal human rights. despite the cultural differences in the world, a number of principles should be among the priorities of any state. the role of the european union is therefore to promote and strengthen them, including through the media.
in writing. - an internationally-present european broadcaster can play an important role in communicating the values of democracy, freedom of the press and human rights throughout the world. it will also play an active role in explaining different national perceptions, communicating eu policies, shaping a genuine european perspective and providing the public with reliable and high-quality information. in the light of the above, i believe that we need a coherent and substantive eu broadcasting strategy in the context of its external relations, thus promoting freedom of expression and media pluralism and upholding and strengthening democracy and human rights in europe and in third countries.
in writing. - european broadcasting with an international presence can play an important role in communicating the values of democracy, press freedom and human rights worldwide, in explaining different national perceptions, in communicating eu policies, in shaping a genuine european perspective and in providing the public with reliable and high-quality information, mainly through a firm, ongoing commitment to journalistic objectivity. any threat to media independence through government intervention, intimidation of journalists, lack of transparency of ownership structures or superior commercial interests affects the overall situation of media freedom and pluralism in any country. it is important to establish a coherent and substantive eu broadcasting strategy in the context of its external relations, thus promoting freedom of expression and media pluralism and upholding and strengthening democracy and human rights in europe and in third countries. it is essential to target eu project-related funding from external aid towards broadcasting services that already comply with and act in accordance with the highest standards of independence, accuracy and journalistic balance and promote eu values, as well as towards projects that would enable broadcasting services that lag behind in terms of independence, accuracy and sustainability to achieve those standards.
in writing. - the watson report, adopted on april 2nd, calls for media bodies to be editorial independent. that means not being dependent on a partisan political interest. when i worked on the text, as rapporteur for the epp group, i asked myself a few questions: is there any country in the union where a tv station is 100% the voice of a political party? would a european socialist party accept as its political-media satellite a creation of someone convicted of collaborating with the political police of a former communist country? is it acceptable for a media outlet to stigmatize the opponents of the socialists without giving them the right to reply? are european values respected when a tv channel is the one that robs the public of the right to information? is it normal for such manipulators to enjoy impunity, since their sanction is decided - by vote - by a body (cna) whose members are as politicized as the station that should be stopped from committing abuses? is there on european soil a political-media success based on blackmail and intolerance? can we accept the operation of a media institution that, if it were registered as a political party, would be banned? can we just be indifferent? all these are rhetorical questions for a romanian who has at least once looked at antena 3.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the role of broadcasting in promoting the eu and its values. i support the importance of a specific approach to broadcasting without prejudice to the independence of the media and the competence of the member states to confer, define and organise the mission of public service broadcasting. they should adhere to a broadcasting charter that requires the broadcasting of fair and objective news and a balanced and comprehensive presentation of the diversity of the eu and its member states, adhere to a journalistic code with a particular focus on policies to guarantee journalistic independence, accuracy and balance, and to this end, establish their own independent codes of conduct and define their editorial lines. i also believe that euronews, with its wide network of national stations and its wide distribution, can play an important role in the media landscape and in stimulating the debate on europe, including in third countries. they argue that euronews should have the means to continue to operate in several languages and to promote opportunities for education and training of journalists on european issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that we must not overlook the impact of noise on health. studies show that in addition to the stress associated with noise pollution, it also has effects on the human body, possibly even contributing to high blood pressure or nervous system dysfunction. noise pollution should not be a necessity in highly industrialized areas or a certification of a powerful machine, on the contrary. that is why i support this proposal, which will have the beneficial effect of reducing ambient noise, firstly by clearly defining limit values.
in writing. - today's vote is a step forward in protecting public health and the environment through measures to reduce vehicle noise. labelling and consumer information are important issues and therefore i consider it necessary and appropriate that the commission should consider an impact assessment on the labelling conditions applicable to noise and air pollution levels and the correct information of consumers. manufacturers, in turn, must provide complete and adequate information on the sound level of vehicles at the point of sale and in technical promotional material. it is of particular importance that the protection of blind and other vulnerable persons be ensured by the installation of appropriate audible warning systems in electric vehicles and, to this end, the parliament and the council have agreed that such systems should be made mandatory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the noise level of motor vehicles and of silencers, because i believe that reducing the noise level of motor vehicles is in the interest of public health. given the increasing number of motor vehicles on european roads, i believe that a reduction in the limit value for noise pollution is needed. annex iii is a good step in this direction, as it not only provides for a limitation of values, but it provides for this limitation to take place in three phases, thus reducing economic efforts. they also agree to install an audible warning system in electric cars to ensure adequate protection for blind people.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution of the house on the adoption of the regulation on the sound level of motor vehicles and replacement silencers. the proposal aims to protect public health and the environment through measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. the main elements of the agreed text are as follows: the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the technical specifications for the vehicle categories m1 to m3 and n1 to n3 and the technical specifications for the vehicle categories m1 to m3 and n1 to n3 as referred to in article 7 of regulation (eu) no 167/2013. implement an impact assessment on the labelling conditions applicable to noise and air pollution levels and inform consumers: manufacturers will provide information on vehicle noise levels at the point of sale and in technical promotional material; ensure the protection of blind and other vulnerable persons by installing appropriate acoustic warning systems in electric vehicles. this provision will apply to new types of vehicles within three years of the date of application of the regulation, and within five years for all electric and hybrid vehicles; road surface issues and their contribution to reducing vehicle noise - the commission will develop information and best practice guidelines on technological development of road quality and road classification, based on information provided by member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the proposed amendments concerning the electronic identification of bovine animals and the abolition of the provisions on the optional labelling of beef and veal involve a number of changes to the electronic databases which form part of the surveillance networks in the member states. this is a simple adaptation because until now the electronic databases set up in the member states contained information on bovine animals located on their territory but not data on the electronic identification of bovine animals.
in writing. - i voted against the parliament's resolution on the proposal for a directive on electronic databases forming part of the surveillance networks in the member states. food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens and this was seen last year in the case of horse meat fraud. the technology is available and therefore member states need to increase their efficiency in identification and traceability methods. the more information citizens receive about the food they consume, the more confident they become as consumers. the s&d group supports the need for a mandatory system for electronic identification of animals, within a transitional period of 10 years. this will give member states the time needed to introduce this system, which will reduce administrative costs, simplify registration and guarantee traceability of animals. the s&d group also supports the maintenance of the voluntary labelling system, which is working well and provides manufacturers with additional tools to promote their products and customers with the necessary information. we regret that the agreement reached did not take into account the s&d group's view.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the application and compliance of international trade rules by all state actors is essential for the stability and predictability of the system. there are many countries that do not comply with international rules in this area and the union must have measures in place to counter any adverse effects of breaches of international rules. i also believe that services should be included in the range of trade policy measures available to the union, to the extent that international or bilateral bodies for the settlement of trade disputes allow this.
in writing. - the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to ensure the exercise of its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in the context of the increasing number of retaliatory measures worldwide, the proposed instrument is legitimately intended to strengthen the exercise of eu trade rights and eu credibility and ultimately to convince our economic partners to respect the rules of the game set out in trade agreements. in recent years, there have been few cases where the eu has had to resort to retaliatory measures; however, an important factor in ensuring a positive solution is the existence of a credible threat. it should be noted that in the absence of a horizontal framework, each decision should now be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, which takes on average between 15 and 31 months.
in writing. - the european union does not currently have a state-of-the-art legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. the question of international trade agreements has always been a thorny one, involving a number of issues, including the protection of our products and the respect of the principle of reciprocity. in a global context such as the one in which we operate, the new strategy is designed for the legitimate purpose of enforcing the eu's trade rights, to strengthen its credibility and to enforce the rules of trade agreements on our trading partners.
in writing. - i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of the union's rights to apply and enforce the rules of international trade. i consider it imperative to create a legislative framework to ensure the exercise of the union's rights in international trade agreements. the european union's rights in international trade are currently enforced through the ordinary decision-making procedure, which is very time-consuming and entails high economic losses for the union. the european union needs credible threats that give it negotiating power, thus avoiding retaliation. i support extending trade policy to the services sector, as it is a fast-growing economic area that could be severely affected if a third country fails to respect union rights.
in writing. - i voted for the regulation on the exercise of the union's rights to enforce and enforce international trade rules. this regulation lays down rules and procedures to ensure the effective and timely exercise of the union's rights to suspend or withdraw concessions or other obligations under international trade agreements with a view to responding to breaches of international trade rules by third countries affecting the interests of the union, to rebalancing concessions or other obligations in trade relations with third countries, when the treatment of union goods is altered in a way that affects the interests of the union. it is essential that the union has adequate instruments to ensure the effective exercise of its rights under international trade agreements in order to protect its economic interests. member states should ensure that commercial policy measures in the field of public procurement are applied in their territories in the manner that best corresponds to their administrative structures and practices, while respecting union law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it required full alignment of the acts regulating trade in rice from bangladesh with the lisbon treaty and the omnibus regulations. the use of delegated or implementing acts is necessary to allow the commission to take decisions in a timely manner. however, the european parliament's scrutiny of these acts is essential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on imports of rice originating in bangladesh. in the context of the uruguay round, the union committed itself to offering preferential import arrangements for rice originating in the least developed countries. one of the countries to which the offer was addressed, namely bangladesh, expressed an interest in developing its rice trade. the preferential import arrangements shall involve a reduction of import duties up to a certain quantity of husked rice. the equivalent quantities of rice at processing stages other than the husked rice stage should be calculated in accordance with commission regulation (ec) no 1312/2008. the preferential import arrangements shall be limited to a quantity equivalent to 4 000 tonnes of husked rice per calendar year. the quantities of rice at processing stages other than husked rice shall be converted using the conversion rates laid down in article 1 of regulation (ec) no 1312/2008. we consider it important to recognise the right of small farmers and rural workers to a decent income and a safe and healthy working environment as a fundamental objective in granting trade preferences to developing countries and in particular to the least developed countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that all aspects of health, and therefore of medical devices used for this purpose, must be treated with the utmost seriousness. with regard to the safety of medical devices and their free movement within the internal market, the interpretation and application of the rules should be uniform and should not leave room for interpretation or uncertainty. high quality standards and, most importantly, the safety of patients and healthcare professionals must take precedence in this area. i therefore welcome the amendments made by this regulation which will ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in this area.
in writing. - in recent years, there have been substantial shortcomings in the conformity assessment procedure, such as lack of transparency, rapid approval and placing on the market of medical devices despite insufficient patient investigations and therefore insufficient clinical data, which have put patients at risk. medical devices that could pose the greatest risks to patients should be subject to a stricter procedure than conformity assessment. this category should include medical devices listed in class iii, those implanted in the body, those incorporating a substance considered to be a medicinal product, those intended for the administration of a medicinal product or those using non-viable tissues or cells of human or animal origin or derivatives thereof. for such devices, it was proposed to introduce the possibility to assess on a case-by-case basis the robustness of the clinical data and the evidence that the device can be placed safely on the eu market. a category of special notified bodies has been created. the provisions concerning the staff of the authorities responsible for the designation and monitoring of notified bodies should be strengthened also to ensure that those authorities have the necessary qualifications to audit the notified bodies for which they are responsible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on medical devices, which classifies medical devices into four classes according to the level of risk to patients. i consider that medical devices which could present the greatest risks to patients should be subject to a stricter procedure than conformity assessment. a medical device evaluation committee (mdec) shall be established to provide case-by-case evaluation when its members consider it necessary for the review of clinical data. the acmd shall be formally placed under the aegis of the commission, which shall provide its secretariat and its smooth functioning. the acmd will be composed of the best specialists in different medical fields. patient representatives and a representative of the european medicines agency should be part of the mca and contribute to the case-by-case assessments. i also consider that the provisions concerning the staff of the authorities responsible for the designation and monitoring of notified bodies should be strengthened to ensure that those authorities also have the necessary qualifications to audit the notified bodies for which they are responsible. in addition, they should ensure that notified bodies have in-house competent staff on a permanent basis, with the exception of subcontracting.
in writing. - i supported this report because the regulation of in vitro diagnostic medical devices must be clear and uniform. this regulation also appears in the context of scientific and technological developments in the field in recent years, which have led to substantial differences in the interpretation and application of the rules. the new clear and transparent regulatory framework will address all these shortcomings and will by default lead to an increased level of safety for patients as well as for healthcare professionals. another important aspect is that such unitary legislation has the potential to support and encourage innovation, thus increasing the competitiveness of the in vitro diagnostic medical device industry.
in writing. - ivd medical devices are medical devices for in vitro (out of the body) diagnosis, which can be performed in the laboratory or in close proximity to the patient, for example at the bedside. this term encompasses a huge variety of tests, such as self-testing for blood sugar, hiv testing, and dna testing. the notified bodies need to be substantially improved and the monitoring of notified bodies by the member states needs to be strengthened. strengthening the vigilance and market surveillance system is very important. unannounced inspections of undertakings will be compulsory. in addition, the commission proposes the introduction of a network of european reference laboratories, which have an important role in the control of high-risk medical devices and will considerably improve patient safety. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. the protection of minors and other persons who are not in a position to give informed consent should be regulated in the same way as in the 2001 clinical trials directive; the deadlines should be moderately extended to give the ethics committee and the authorities the time to assess the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. ivd medical devices are medical devices for in vitro (out of the body) diagnosis, which can be performed in the laboratory or in close proximity to the patient, for example at the bedside. this term encompasses a huge variety of tests, such as self-testing for blood sugar, hiv testing, and dna testing. ivd medical devices are products which can circulate freely in the common market and therefore the european union is obliged to ensure the highest possible level of safety. the commission proposal includes major improvements to address the current shortcomings of the system for ivd medical devices, similar to those for other medical devices. the notified bodies will be substantially improved and the monitoring of notified bodies by the member states will be strengthened. it is very important that the vigilance and market surveillance system be strengthened. in addition, the commission proposes to introduce a network of european reference laboratories, which play an important role in the control of high-risk medical devices. the parliament amended the commission proposal to take account of the capacity and needs of smes, such as the possibility to provide information also by electronic means, and the information accompanying the product must be provided in an official language of the union.
in writing. - identifying the links between the environment and the economy and measuring the impact of the economy on the environment became needs to which the european institutions responded promptly by adopting the regulation on environmental economic accounts in 2011, when the first three modules were introduced. since then, the european parliament has called for the gradual adoption of new accounts that would lead to improved policymaking. today we adopted three new modules on environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and the accounts for physical energy flows, which have the potential to contribute to the development of more comprehensive indicators, thus improving both the quality of european policy-making and public debate. what is really important in this file is that member states can really fulfil their obligations to collect, compile, transmit and evaluate data specific to each of the accounts. therefore, as rapporteur, i proposed that the first reference year be the year following the year of entry into force of this regulation, giving member states time to adapt their statistical systems to the reporting needs established by the regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that over time environmental accounting, recently introduced to the european union agenda, will have a strong impact on analysis and forecasting. it will be used both for the preparation of policy proposals and for reports on the implementation of policies and their impact. the most important aspect i think is the one that relates to measuring the effects of economic activity on the environment, but also the contribution that the environment makes to the economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the proposal for a regulation on european environmental economic accounts. the current pace of developments and uncertainties about likely future trends require further measures to ensure that union policies continue to be based on a sound understanding of the environmental situation, the possible response options and their consequences. new tools should therefore be developed to ensure the preparation of data and indicators of a guaranteed quality and to improve their accessibility. the environmental protection expenditure accounts present data, in a manner compatible with the data reported in the european system of accounts (esa), on environmental protection related expenditure, namely the economic resources allocated by resident units to environmental protection. these accounts allow the compilation of national environmental protection-related expenditure which is defined as the sum of the use of environmental protection services by resident units, gross fixed capital formation for environmental protection activities and transfers for environmental protection which are not a counterpart of the previous items, less the financing by the rest of the world. the accounts of environmental protection expenditure should use information already existing in the national accounts, structural business statistics, the business register and other sources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, given that the deadline for achieving the millennium development goals is 2015, the commission's decision to declare this year the european year of development is welcome. in 2015, a reflection at european level will be needed on the direction development assistance policies should take. there is certainly a need for continued global commitments to poverty reduction. increasing literacy is also imperative. last but not least, promoting respect for human rights as a condition for achieving economic prosperity is another priority.
in writing. - the european year for development should raise awareness of all forms of gender discrimination faced by women and girls in different regions, especially in access to education, employment and healthcare, as well as in cases of forced marriage, sexual exploitation, genital mutilation and other harmful practices. combating poverty and all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression should be the main objective of the european union's development policy. the allocation of financial assistance for development should respect these universal values. the eu should ensure, by making development aid conditional, that third countries protect women and girls from torture. the council should suspend aid to countries that practice torture and direct this aid to support victims. the fact that women and girls are the most vulnerable to poverty, hunger, illiteracy, disease and all forms of exploitation should be taken very seriously in eu development assistance programmes. promoting gender equality and women's empowerment are considered effective ways to combat poverty, hunger and disease and to encourage sustainable development.
in writing. - the declaration of 2015 as the european year of development is a very important signal from the european parliament at a time when financial difficulties around the world are diverting attention to other issues, often wrongly considered as priorities. the existence of a close link between development and the right to human dignity should, however, remind us of the importance of the desire to combat poverty, which goes beyond the borders of the european union and is, in the end, the ultimate goal of development as a process. through the tools that will be made available to the eu under this project, 2015 will allow us to engage as many people as possible in achieving our goals. the more than 100 million europeans who unfortunately live on the poverty line remind us that, while we act abroad, we cannot ignore what is happening on the european continent, where we will have to continue to fight to reduce the gap between states. as vice-president of the committee on development, i welcome this initiative and will unconditionally join the european union's efforts in this regard.
in writing. - 2015 is a testbed for highlighting and making visible the development policies implemented by the european union. the european parliament has, in the legislature which is about to end, fought hard for funds and policies dedicated to reducing the differences between the different member states. we must continue to work in this direction to meet the major challenges of cooperation policy by advancing the achievement of the millennium development goals and the post-2015 agenda.
in writing. - welcomes the report of the european parliament on the declaration of 2015 as the european year of development; this initiative will facilitate european awareness of the development challenges faced by the world's poorest states and draw attention to the importance of respecting democratic principles and human rights worldwide. these are the fundamental principles on which all societies, regardless of their geographical position or economic power, must be built. i also hope that, through the activities carried out as part of the european year for development, public opinion in the european union will become aware of the long-term benefits of development cooperation for both third countries and eu states. even if the budget foreseen for the european year of development actions is limited, it is important that it allows for the presentation of impactful projects and actors from developing countries, including ngos and young people.
in writing. - under the millennium development goals, 189 un member states in 2000, but also the european union itself, under articles 209 and 210 of the treaty, committed themselves to, among other things, ending extreme poverty and hunger by 2015, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv/aids, malaria and other serious diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability and building a global partnership for development, to name just a few of the key commitments. the european year for development is a good opportunity to reflect on how to pass on the achievements, since the eu provides more than half of the world's development funds, meaning that it has played a responsible role at the global level, yet the average citizen knows little about it. the european year for development also serves to mobilise citizens and civil society, by highlighting the possibility, in the context of globalisation, of helping millions of people living in extreme poverty to avoid being forced to leave their communities and homelands, and to create more decent living conditions for themselves and their families locally, partly on their own initiative. the development contribution also relieves the union of migratory pressures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the proposal for a decision on the european year of development, which designates 2015 as the 'european year for development' under the motto 'our earth, our dignity, our future'. development cooperation policy shall have as its primary objective the reduction and, in the long term, the eradication of poverty, as set out in article 21 of the treaty on european union (teu) and in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the year 2015 should be a landmark and pivotal year, as it is the last year in which the collectively agreed millennium development goals (mdgs) can be achieved, thus providing a unique opportunity to review international commitments. the year 2015 will also be the year in which major international decisions on the development framework to replace the mdg framework in the coming decades will have to be taken. the european year should therefore act as a catalyst for public awareness-raising, including through public policy debate and development education, and for the promotion and exchange of good practices between member states, local and regional authorities, civil society, the private sector, social partners and international entities and organisations involved in development issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because in recent decades space, at the edge of our atmosphere, has become increasingly 'populated' by various types of space infrastructure. whether we're talking about satellites, space debris or other vehicles, there is a major risk of collision between these objects, which could have negative consequences, including for those on earth. improving general knowledge in this area is the first step towards a concrete action plan to reduce the risk of collisions between these objects.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution of the parliament on the proposal for a decision establishing a support programme for space surveillance and tracking. the european union recognises the need for a future space situational awareness capability (ssa) as a european-level activity, which develops and exploits existing national and european civil and military means. in general, the ssa covers three main areas, which aim at protecting space infrastructure, namely space surveillance and tracking (sst), space weather forecasting and monitoring, and near-earth objects. activities in these areas aim to protect infrastructures in and from space. in order to reduce the risks of collision, the union will also seek to find synergies with initiatives for the active disposal and passivation of space debris, such as the initiative developed by the european space agency (esa). the sst support framework should contribute to ensuring the long-term maintenance of european and national space infrastructure and services that are essential for the security of europe's economies, societies and citizens. the osh support framework should consist of the creation of networks and the use of national osh assets for the provision of osh services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which will replace the financial provisions in several legal acts with a single, transparent and clear financial framework capable of streamlining the implementation and, in particular, the operation of the management of expenditure in the food and feed sector. i believe that this proposal will serve the eu's overall objectives of ensuring a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain. it will also increase consumer protection and information, competitiveness and job creation. last but not least, i think we need clear strategies in support of food security.
in writing. - the regulation voted on today in parliament's plenary is part of the legislative package 'smarter regulation for safer food'. this package provides for sectoral legislation on animal health, plant health and plant reproductive material and official controls, and the regulation on the management of related expenditure. as the proposal rationalizes funding rates, it is important that the union ensures that funds are spent appropriately and takes measures to simplify its spending programmes. i consider it important to introduce precise indicators to better assess the effects of food supply chain security policies. in addition, pest epidemiological surveillance programmes will be established to prevent growing plant health threats.
in writing. - i voted for the regulation laying down provisions for the management of expenditure on the food chain, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant reproductive material. this regulation lays down provisions for the management of expenditure from the general budget of the eu in the areas covered by union rules. it covers food and food safety at all stages of production, processing, distribution and disposal of food, including rules aimed at ensuring fair trade practices and protecting the interests and information of consumers, and the manufacture and use of materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. it also regulates feed and feed safety at all stages of production, processing, distribution and disposal of feed and its use, including rules aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and protecting consumers' interests and information. it also lays down rules on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and on the protection of intellectual property rights in plant varieties and the conservation and exchange of plant genetic resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, whether we are talking about logging in the european union or in other countries, it is our duty to combat and discourage illegal logging and the trade in it. the consistency of the rules in this area with the provisions relating to delegated or implementing acts was necessary to reinforce the measures in this area.
in writing. - the forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) licensing scheme has a particularly important role to play in combating illegal logging and related trade. by voting today, the european parliament does not seek to change the essential features of the flegt licensing regime, but only to align the provisions on comitology in council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts provided for by the treaty of lisbon. the proposal thus empowers the commission to adopt implementing acts for the assessment and approval of existing mechanisms guaranteeing the legality and reliable traceability of timber products exported by partner countries, in order to provide the basis for obtaining a flegt licence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 establishing a flegt licensing scheme for imports of timber into the european community. regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 confers powers on the commission for the implementation of certain provisions of that regulation. as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary to align the powers conferred on the commission under regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). for the purpose of implementing certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 2173/2005, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu should be delegated to the commission in respect of amending annexes i, ii and iii to regulation (ec) no 2173/2005. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 2173/2005, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission to allow it to assess and approve existing systems ensuring the legality and reliable traceability of timber products exported by partner countries with a view to becoming the basis for a forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) licence.
in writing. - the european union has enormous potential to be exploited in the medical field. we have the expertise, infrastructure and funds to excel globally. but to attract foreign investment and stimulate innovation we need a single set of laws and as little bureaucracy as possible. on the one hand, the procedures for authorising and reporting clinical trials should be accelerated and simplified. however, the highest standards of safety and transparency for patients must also be maintained. on another note, i regret to note that romania is at the top of the ranking in europe for investments in medical research and development. i hope the ponta government realizes that the benefits of innovation in medicine are enormous: both for patients and for the economic impact on the country.
in writing. - in a clinical trial, the safety, rights, health and well-being of the subjects should be protected and the data generated should be relevant, reliable, robust and reflect the diversity of the population in terms of age and gender balance. the interests of the participants should always take precedence over other interests. the regulation will ensure consistency in the implementation of the legislation across the eu. this will be of particular benefit to those carrying out research in the field of rare diseases, as the small number of patients targeted makes cross-border studies indispensable. it is also important to create national compensation systems. currently, the insurance costs associated with certain clinical trials are astronomical and can discourage many sponsors from conducting these trials. academic clinical trials, especially those on rare diseases, are often the ones excluded from the market because of the high cost of insurance. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). at present, most of the public funds invested in medical research are devoted to insurance expenditure. the costs of operating an indemnity system would be relatively low for the member states.
in writing. - given that clinical trials conducted in a single member state are also indispensable for european clinical research, the procedure laid down in this regulation should also cover those clinical trials. i consider that for these clinical trials the application file should also be submitted through the single european portal.
in writing. - progress in medicine is conditioned by innovation. to ensure access to innovative and effective medicines for patients, there is clearly a need for a legislative framework that encourages the pharmaceutical industry to invest in research and innovation in europe and to bring new treatments to the market. the agreement on the modernisation of clinical trial legislation is good news for both patients and the competitiveness of the european pharmaceutical industry. the number of clinical trials has been declining so far, partly due to the administrative obstacles created by the 2001 directive, especially for multinational clinical trials, which are very important for rare disease treatments. the new regulation adopted today will encourage clinical trials in the eu by providing faster and simpler common procedures for their approval. as regards the deadlines for approval, they could have been more ambitious, but even those provided for in the agreement are progress compared to the current situation. it also brings more transparency to clinical trial results, increased protection of subjects and a system for reporting on drug safety issues. all of this will make the eu more attractive for clinical trials, while increasing the quality of the results and ensuring trust in the system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and repealing directive 2001/20/ec. this regulation shall apply to all interventional clinical trials conducted in the union. a clinical trial may be conducted only if the rights, safety, dignity and well-being of the subjects are protected and take priority over all other interests and if it is designed to generate reliable and robust data. interventional clinical trials shall be subject to scientific and ethical review and shall be authorised in accordance with this regulation. the ethics review shall be carried out by an ethics committee in accordance with the law of the member state concerned. member states shall ensure that the time limits and procedures for the review by the ethics committees are compatible with the time limits and procedures laid down in this regulation for the assessment of the application for authorisation of an interventional clinical trial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because tragic events in the past have shown us the seriousness of the damage caused by accidents in the nuclear sector. the effects on the environment, but especially on human health, may be irreversible. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, numerous studies and research show that the use of this type of energy can be a viable solution in the diversification of energy sources. in the context of the union's presence of around one third of all operational nuclear reactors worldwide, strengthening the regulatory framework for nuclear safety is vital.
in writing. - by voting today, parliament has voted in favour of the proposal to amend, strengthen and supplement the nuclear safety directive. a major improvement is the introduction of the requirement of effective independence of the competent regulatory authorities. i consider that judicial independence and the exercise of jurisdiction in an impartial and transparent manner are crucial factors in ensuring a high level of nuclear security at european level. the negative consequences of the lack of independence were evident in the case of the fukushima accident. the provisions of directive 2009/71/euratom on the functional separation of the competent regulatory authorities should therefore be strengthened in order to ensure the effective independence of the regulatory authorities and to guarantee that they have the appropriate means and competences to properly discharge the responsibilities entrusted to them. i would like to stress the importance of preventing incidents and accidents, and of responding effectively in the event of an incident or accident. i therefore believe that it is necessary to develop common strategies at european level on accident preparedness measures and to establish rules on on-site emergency preparedness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2009/71/euratom establishing a community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations. the proposal requires measures to minimise the risks of nuclear accidents and to improve nuclear safety, and also refers to 'stress tests' carried out to obtain comprehensive risk and safety assessments of eu nuclear power plants. the main elements of the proposal are: to ensure the avoidance of radioactive releases at all stages of the life cycle of nuclear installations; criteria and requirements to ensure the independence of regulatory bodies, adequate budgetary own funds and autonomy in their execution; requirements for the appointment and dismissal of staff, the avoidance and resolution of conflicts of interest and the provision of staff with the necessary qualifications, experience and knowledge; the introduction of general objectives on the safety of nuclear installations and the provision of detailed provisions for the various stages of the life cycle of nuclear installations, including on site selection, design, construction, commissioning, operation and decommissioning of nuclear installations; the existence of an on-site emergency response centre for nuclear installations; a self-assessment of nuclear installations and joint assessment of safety-related functions by the commission and the member states, in close cooperation with the commission and the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important part of the efforts to close the existing fiscal gaps. we must not lose sight for a second that the loss of public money recorded at eu level amounts to some 1 000 billion euro annually. so the unjustified costs faced by eu citizens are worrying, undermining their trust in national and eu institutions. that is why i welcome all measures against double taxation and aggressive tax planning. in this respect, for example, the member state in which the parent company is situated and the member state in which its permanent establishment is situated should tax the part of the profits which is deductible by the subsidiary of the parent company.
in writing. - in the union, around eur 1 000 billion of potential tax revenues are lost each year through tax fraud and evasion or aggressive tax planning, representing an annual cost of around eur 2 000 for each union citizen. it is therefore essential to take the necessary measures against tax fraud and to amend council directive 2011/96/eu to ensure that the application of that directive does not impede effective action against double taxation in the field of hybrid lending structures. the benefits of directive 2011/96/eu should not lead to situations of double non-taxation or extreme forms of under-taxation and therefore should not generate unintended tax advantages for groups of parent companies and subsidiaries in different member states, compared to groups of companies in the same member state. this directive shall not prevent the application of domestic or agreement-based provisions necessary to prevent tax evasion or to permit the taxation of activities at the place of production or consumption, in so far as they are compatible with this directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and welcome the fact that it reiterates support for the extension of the schengen area to include romania and bulgaria. although the acquis in this area is implemented by my country, some states still block a decision for political reasons. i hope that after the elections, the populist and electoral approaches will be put aside and romania will be allowed to enter the schengen area. even if there is no link between the cvm and schengen, it is clear that my country has made enormous progress in the judicial field in recent years, and the commission's reports clearly show this. of course the romanian parliament, especially those in power, continue to be a millstone, pulling back the judiciary, but i am convinced that this will eventually be remedied.
in writing. - the treaty sets out the eu's objectives to combat social exclusion and discrimination and to promote equality between men and women, and the commission must ensure that the implementation of the stockholm programme truly reflects the real needs of citizens in terms of equal opportunities and gender equality. the commission and the member states should develop specific tools, using new information and communication technologies, to enable the exchange of good practice at european level in the field of combating discrimination. member states should establish complaint procedures that allow victims of multiple discrimination to lodge a single complaint on several grounds of discrimination, taking into account that women are particularly victims of such discrimination. measures are needed to reduce prostitution markets, for example by applying sanctions to operators, including pimps and buyers of sexual services. the commission and the member states should therefore increase funding for rescue programmes for victims of trafficking, in particular women in prostitution.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the mid-term evaluation of the stockholm programme. we stress that the accession of the union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr), in accordance with article 6 (2) of the treaty on european union, will further strengthen the protection of fundamental rights in the union, as guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights and the case law of the court of justice. we are concerned about the manifest intolerance towards the mobility of eu citizens, with the aim of undermining the rights of workers in some new member states. we urgently call for action to address the so-called copenhagen dilemma a situation where the union sets high standards for candidate countries but lacks the tools for existing member states. we call for the creation, preferably under an interinstitutional agreement, of a 'copenhagen commission' composed of high-level independent fundamental rights experts, also appointed by the ep, whose purpose should be to ensure compliance by all member states with the common values enshrined in article 2 teu and the continuity of the 'copenhagen criteria', and to provide advice and reporting on fundamental rights issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because i too support the amendment of the procedure for amending the annexes to the regulation. clearly, in some special situations the change must be made very quickly. and only the commission can do that, by means of delegated acts. a similar measure might have been useful in the case of dual-use trade with russia, especially in the context of the invasion of ukraine. it is clear that where member states cannot agree, the commission must intervene and take decisions, if it can do so. too often, dual-use items have been used to violate human rights in some countries, but also to undermine the security of the union. and the best example of this is the products that go into mass surveillance technologies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, intermediation and transit of dual-use items. the european parliament, the council and the commission recognise the importance of continuously improving the effectiveness and coherence of the eu control regime on strategic exports, as well as ensuring a high level of security and adequate transparency, without harming competitiveness and legitimate trade in dual-use items. the three institutions consider that the modernisation and increased convergence of the system is necessary to keep pace with new threats and rapid technological change, to reduce distortions, to create a genuine common market for dual-use goods (fair and uniform conditions of competition for exporters) and to continue to be a model of export control for third countries. to this end, it is essential to streamline the process of updating the checklists (annexes to the regulation), to better assess risks, to intensify information exchange, to develop improved standards for the use of the relevant industry and to reduce implementation gaps.
in writing. - the aviation sector is one of the major polluters, and in the last 20 years emissions have almost doubled. in addition, other modes of transport are heavily regulated in terms of environmental compliance. in the interests of fairness and fair competition, the aviation sector needs to be given similar treatment. the achievement of a genuine single european sky also plays an important role here. this would eliminate unnecessary emissions caused by deviations and delays caused by air traffic control. however, the aviation sector is international in nature. and european regulations can only achieve their objective in the context of international cooperation in this field. the union has a role and a duty to give new impetus to the development of global systems to reduce pollution in the aviation sector.
in writing. - global warming can only be effectively tackled through an international strategy. neither carbon emissions nor climate change are limited to the space between national borders. climate protection initiatives should be taken rapidly, given that the climate problems caused by global aviation emissions can only be effectively managed through an international approach. a global agreement within icao offers the best prospects for ensuring long-term sustainability. i believe that the eu must be an active player in promoting a global agreement and must no longer continue to act unilaterally, which will set back the process. the eu must avoid any measures that will be considered unconstructive by our international partners and that will obstruct icao negotiations. the commission should strengthen bilateral and multilateral links with third countries in order to promote the conclusion of an agreement within the icao and, as an intermediate step, to encourage more countries to align themselves with the ets or to adopt equivalent measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2003/87/ec establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community, with a view to implementing, from 2020, an international agreement on the application of a single global market-based measure for emissions from international aviation. the union is working towards a future international agreement to control greenhouse gas emissions from aviation and, in the meantime, is limiting the climate change impact of aviation activities to and from union airports through autonomous action. i voted for the member states to determine the destination of the revenue from the auctioning of licences. i voted in favour of member states, by way of derogation from articles 12 (2a), 14 (3) and 16, considering that the requirements laid down in those provisions are met and not taking action against aircraft operators in respect of all emissions from flights to and from aerodromes located in countries outside the european economic area (eea) in each calendar year from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2016.
in writing. - in romania, interbank card transaction fees are among the highest in europe. i know opinions are divided on the margins of the file, and the banks are obviously the most vocal. they cite huge losses, but they forget the losses that public systems had to suffer because of their greed during the economic crisis. interchange fees act as a minimum price, determining the amount paid by merchants for accepting the card. inevitably, the price is also passed on to consumers. the capping of fees will bring benefits to traders, consumers and the economy. small traders will pay low commissions, sales volumes will increase and final prices for consumers will fall. in addition, card payments will be encouraged over cash, and tax evasion will be reduced.
in writing. - the adoption of union-wide ceilings on interchange fees for domestic and cross-border transactions is an important step in the process of improving the functioning of the internal market and in implementing the principle of the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital in the eu, with a specific focus on the consumer. this regulation should apply to card-based payment transactions, irrespective of the medium in which the payment transaction takes place, including transactions carried out through small-value payment instruments and services that may be offline, online or transactions executed using commercial cards.
in writing. - to benefit from the internal market, it is necessary to remove barriers to the integration of new card payment solutions, including mobile and internet payments, which rely on card transactions. i support the need to facilitate the smooth functioning of the internal market for card, internet and mobile payments for consumers and retailers. card payment transactions are generally based on two main business models, namely tripartite card payment systems (cardholder issuing and accepting system - merchant) and quadripartite card payment systems (cardholder issuing bank accepting bank merchant). this regulation shall apply to cross-border and national card-based payment transactions. the adopted amendments provide for the possibility for merchants to opt for an acceptor outside their own member state ('cross-border acceptance'), which is facilitated by the imposition of the same maximum level of domestic and cross-border interchange fees for accepted transactions and the prohibition of territorial licences, which will provide the necessary legal clarity and prevent distortions of competition between card payment systems.
in writing. - electronic payments are playing an increasingly important role in europe and the world, with huge potential to stimulate the economy and help to revive consumption. and fragmentation only slows down development and innovation in this sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the directive and will continue to monitor the implementation of the directive. i think we're going to see a massive migration of payments and services exclusively online. security risks associated with internet payments are bound to increase in the future due to technical complexity, the increasing volume of electronic payments worldwide and, of course, the emergence of new types of payment services. so to fully exploit this sector, consumer confidence is essential.
in writing. - i voted for the amendments adopted by the european parliament on the proposal for a directive on payment services in the internal market, amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec. the emergence of an integrated single market for secure electronic payments is crucial to support the union's economic growth and to ensure that consumers, merchants and businesses can fully benefit from the variety and transparency of payment services in order to enjoy the development of the digital economy and the benefits offered by the internal market. new rules are needed to fill the regulatory gaps while providing greater legal clarity and ensuring a consistent application of the legislative framework across the union. it is important to ensure a level playing field for existing and new entrants to the market, facilitating new means of payment to open up a larger market and ensuring a high level of protection for consumers using those payment services across the union. this will lead to greater efficiency of the overall payment system and a downward trend in costs and prices for payment service users.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the proposal to eliminate roaming charges is excellent news for users of this type of service. we've all had to pay exorbitant amounts of money when using our cell phones abroad, or simply avoid talking on the phone when traveling in other countries. it is clear to me that roaming, besides being a drain on our pockets, is an obstacle to the development of a single telecommunications market. i want to express my disappointment that the council of ministers is not making progress. it was desirable to adopt the regulation before the elections in may, to give a clear signal to citizens that the union is working in their interests.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to achieve an internal market in electronic communications, where citizens and businesses have access to electronic communications services wherever they are provided in the union, without cross-border restrictions or unjustified additional costs, and where businesses providing electronic communications networks and services can operate and provide them wherever they are established in the eu and wherever their customers are located. i consider it important that the adaptation of the european electronic communications framework takes due account of the legal and real conditions in the member states and regions.
in writing. - for europe to fully exploit the growth, competitiveness and employment potential of the digital single market, the role of telecoms in delivering innovation and connectivity across all sectors of the economy needs to increase. the freedom to provide electronic communications services across borders and in networks in different member states should be affirmed by harmonising and simplifying the application of the general authorisation regime. it is necessary to address the conditions and procedures for the licensing of spectrum for wireless broadband communications and the use of unlicensed radio frequency bands. the rules on user protection, in particular consumer protection, need to be addressed. these include rules on non-discrimination, contractual information, contract termination and switching, in addition to rules on access to online content, applications and services and traffic management, shared and common standards on privacy and the protection and security of user data. due to further reforms in the area of roaming services, end-users will no longer incur costs additional to the charges they pay in the member state where the contract was concluded when travelling within the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation laying down measures on the european single market for electronic communications and the achievement of a connected continent and amending directives 2002/20/ec, 2002/21/ec and 2002/22/ec and regulations (ec) no 1211/2009 and (eu) no 531/2012. i voted for amendment no 208, which introduces a new article 6a which provides that from 15 december 2015 roaming providers shall not charge any surcharge, compared to domestic mobile tariffs, to roaming customers in any member state for any regulated roaming call made or received, any sms/mms roaming message sent and any regulated data roaming service used, and any general charge for activating terminal equipment or service for use abroad. i voted for amendments nos 234, 235, 236 which provide a new definition for internet access services, in line with the principle of net neutrality, and for specialised services. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to create or maintain an economic activity in the union, but to promote the development of the union's energy sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, whether it is about paying bills, buying goods or services, the internet is becoming increasingly important. however, as technology has advanced, attempts at cyber fraud and even identity theft have increased. that is why i believe that the proposal for a regulation is a step forward in ensuring trust in electronic transactions. electronic identification needs to be recognised and mutually accepted at european level and the development of electronic signatures can contribute to this. our aim is first and foremost to ensure a coherent framework in which european entrepreneurs can operate and consumers in the union can choose the best value for money. of course, everything must be done in complete safety and without risk to the citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market. i voted for amendment no 133, which is the text negotiated by parliament and the council. the commission proposal has two parts. the first part concerns the mutual recognition and acceptance at eu level of notified electronic identification schemes. the second part aims to establish a common framework for trust services such as electronic signatures. the regulation ensures the interoperability of electronic signature systems and their mutual recognition. the national electronic identification schemes notified in accordance with article 7 shall be interoperable. the interoperability framework shall meet the following criteria: (a) it shall be technology neutral and shall not give priority to any of the specific national technical solutions for electronic identification in the territory of the member state concerned; (b) facilitate the implementation of the principle of privacy by design. parliament considers that the trust services provided and the end-user products used to provide those services, in the proposal for a regulation, should be accessible to persons with disabilities. the physical use of devices should be possible for any person, with or without disabilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the existence of common requirements for statutory audit of public-interest entities can contribute to both increased transparency and competitiveness of these entities. citizens' trust in these institutions is also based on the certainty that they work for their benefit and are as transparent as possible. the benefits of such a regulation will be felt both at the level of citizens and at the level of public-interest entities.
in writing. - i voted against the parliament's resolution on the proposal for a regulation on specific requirements for the statutory audit of public-interest entities because amendments 254, 255 and 256, which the s&d group supported, were not adopted. the independence of statutory auditors, audit firms or members of the networks to which they belong may be compromised by the provision of certain services, other than statutory audit services (non-audit services), to audited entities. amendment 254 provides that, where a joint audit is carried out, each audit firm is allowed to provide related financial audit services up to a limit of 40% of the total turnover represented by the audit services. amendment 255 clarifies the definition of services other than audit services by referring to specialist services not related to audit as well as general administration services and other advisory services. amendment 256 refers to article 10 (3) (3) (a) (viii), replacing the commission text with the following text (viii) preparing, promoting, trading or subscribing to the audit client's shares;.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the development of audit firms can best be achieved if member states allow them access to external capital. at the same time, european-level regulations must be uniform and allow for the uniform development of companies in the sector, thus eliminating unfair practices and unequal competition.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2006/43/ec on the statutory audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts. i voted against amendment no 66, which replaces virtually all the 65 amendments adopted in the committee of the european parliament. i consider it important to increase the minimum level of convergence in audit standards on the basis of which statutory audits are carried out. in addition, in order to improve investor protection, it is important to strengthen public oversight measures for statutory auditors and audit firms by enhancing the independence of the public oversight authorities in the union and by conferring on them appropriate powers, including investigative powers and the power to impose sanctions, to identify, deter and prevent breaches of the provisions applicable in the context of the provision of audit services by statutory auditors and audit firms. however, i consider that the provisions on the statutory audit of public-interest entities referred to in this directive should apply to all statutory auditors and audit firms and only to the extent that they carry out statutory audits of such entities, as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i support the proposal to remove tariffs on some of the products that ukraine exports to the union. unfortunately, it took the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula for the union to mobilise and provide this support. i hope that in the future we will realize that we need to have a proactive approach and not a reactive one in the face of any kind of challenge and threat to our partners, especially when it comes to russia. similar measures could have been taken in the case of the republic of moldova, even in the past, and i am not just talking about the liberalisation of wine exports. trade in fruits and vegetables should have been completely liberalized, so as to alleviate from the russian pressures.
in writing. - i voted for the regulation on reducing or eliminating customs duties on goods coming from ukraine. ukraine is a priority partner state within the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. the union shall pursue the development of an increasingly close relationship with ukraine, beyond mere bilateral cooperation, which implies gradual progress towards political association and economic integration. to this end, an eu-ukraine association agreement including a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) was negotiated between 2007 and 2011. under the provisions of the dcfta, the union and ukraine have provided for the establishment of a free trade area during a transitional period of up to 10 years from the date of entry into force of the association agreement, in accordance with article xxiv of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994. in view of the unprecedented political, economic and security challenges facing ukraine, and in order to support its economy, it is appropriate not to wait until the entry into force of the provisions of the association agreement relating to the dcfta, but to anticipate its implementation through autonomous trade preferences and to start the unilateral reduction or elimination of union customs duties on goods originating in ukraine.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the limits of the union's foreign policy have become very clear in recent times. the invasion of ukraine has shown us that we are not able to speak firmly with one voice. of course, the sanctions are welcome, but unfortunately each state has different interests in relation to russia. on the other hand, i can say with certainty that romania is one of the few member states that is not influenced politically by the economic relationship it has with moscow. nor is my country so dependent on russian gas for energy. of course, if they had gone faster with shale gas exploitation, now they would certainly be zero dependent. the annexation of crimea should be a wake-up call to all member states. we either act unitedly on external threats, or we may well eliminate the concept of a union foreign policy altogether. i draw your attention to the fact that, beyond the risks of annexing eastern ukraine, the transnistrian separatist regime has also asked for joining russia. i call for the interests of our eastern neighbours, in particular the republic of moldova, to be defended by giving a clear prospect of accession in the immediate future.
in writing. - ensuring coherence between the different areas of the union's external action and between these and its other policies is a requirement of the lisbon treaty and of current decision-making processes. the role of women in promoting development policies should be emphasised through their participation in the development policy-making and implementation, thus ensuring that women's interests are taken into account in political and economic negotiations, creating a recurring cycle of development in which women are the drivers of development policy. assistance measures should take into account the specific characteristics of crises and emergencies, as well as countries where fundamental freedoms are seriously lacking or where ngos operate in difficult conditions. the eeas should establish, in partnership with the populations concerned, a limited number of priorities to be addressed as a matter of priority and simultaneously, so that funds and resources can be concentrated to better achieve the objectives. at the same time, particular attention should be paid to situations where women are exposed to physical or psychological violence. support systems must also be set up, and investment must be made in specialised services to support victims of gender-based violence, such as rape or trauma resulting from conflict and war.
in writing. - the european union needs to make rapid progress on the coherence of external action in areas and on global issues such as development, trade, energy or migration. coherence can also be facilitated by the powers introduced by the treaty of lisbon, namely by creating the triple role of high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, vice-president of the european commission and president of the foreign affairs council. it is regrettable that this prerogative is not being exploited to its full potential. further progress is also needed in synchronising and sharing the responsibilities and actions of member states in developing countries, under the leadership of a head of delegation to coordinate between eu states, the host government, civil society, and other international donors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's global approach and its consequences for the coherence of its external action. we believe that the eu has recently acquired new instruments of external action through the lisbon treaty, which enable it to develop a more active and unified foreign policy. the eu must maintain and promote its values, interests and stability on the world stage and protect the security and prosperity of its citizens. we stress that this requires a new approach to shaping, in cooperation with our strategic partners, a new multipolar world order that is inclusive, credible, fair and cooperative, based on respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy, and that seeks to resolve disputes without resorting to armed conflict. we also stress that the eu's external policy can only be effective if member states are willing and able to formulate common policies, especially in the framework of multilateral organisations such as the united nations. we urge member states to fulfil their treaty-based commitments to actively support the union's external relations in a spirit of mutual solidarity and to align their policies with the union's action in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because financial resources in the union remain limited and budgetary discipline and the efficient allocation of funds must be treated with the utmost seriousness. the commission's discharge is the most important, as a large part of the union budget is its responsibility, together with that of the member states. after reading the european union's report on combating corruption, i found that there is no assessment of corruption at the level of the european institutions. in an appeal to the commission i raised this issue. the answer was not clear, with the commission saying it would return to the issue in future anti-corruption reports. i suggest that the future european parliament should insist on such an assessment at the level of the community institutions.
in writing. - in addition to a number of relevant observations on how the european commission implemented the 2012 budget and recommendations for improving management and reducing the error rate, this report also contains paragraphs on the impact of the situation in romania and bulgaria on the implementation of european funds. as for romania, although the country is indeed subject to the cooperation and verification mechanism in order to combat corruption and guarantee the independence of the judiciary, i think it is superfluous to say that, because of this, it is almost impossible to spend european funds according to the legal provisions. without pretending that there were no implementation problems and without ignoring the other positive aspects, i cannot however support a report that seems to give a negative and almost definitive verdict to romania in terms of european funds. romania still has a long way to go, but i remain hopeful about my country's ability to make progress towards a fairer and more widespread use of european funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission and executive agencies. i voted for amendments nos 29, 2, 3, 30, 32, 33, 41 and 42. i voted for amendment no 16 tabled by the s&d group and against the original text of paragraph 296, which states that bulgaria should receive less european funds. the court of auditors has drawn up, for the financial year 2012, a statement of assurance on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the council also recommended on 18 february 2014 that the commission be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012. parliament therefore gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, and sets out its observations in its resolution forming an integral part of its decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission and executive agencies and in its resolution of 3 april 2014 on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's discharge for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and support the conclusions of the court of auditors in the context of its special reports carried out in 2012. the court of auditors' conclusions will not only help to ensure better management of european taxpayers' money, but also constitute an action plan for the future to address identified shortcomings. the effectiveness of european union action in certain areas is primarily determined by the added value of the funds used. achieving the best possible results in the context of limited resources must therefore be the objective of each european institution in managing community money.
in writing. - i voted for the court of auditors' special reports for the 2012 financial year. parliament considers that, given the complexity and diversity of agricultural structures within the union, it is necessary to maintain the specific form of aid granted to the modernisation of farm associative systems, as it has been objectively demonstrated that it can solve the problems posed by insufficient economic size and/or generational change. parliament regrets that there is currently no comprehensive regulatory framework at union level on conflicts of interest, which ensures comparable basic requirements on independence and transparency and which are applicable to all union agencies. finally, i voted for paragraphs 141, 144 and 147, in which parliament asks the commission to monitor the case of reconstruction work and the construction of social housing in the abruzzi region and in the city of l'aquila. parliament expressed its concern about the eight people detained by the italian police who are suspected of tampering with building permits for reconstruction work taking place in the abruzzi region and in the city of l'aquila and called on the commission to monitor the development of this situation and to report to parliament on this, including on criminal cases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the european development fund contributes to the achievement of some key foreign policy objectives of the european union. the court of auditors' analysis has shown very clearly that the revenue operations and the commitments of the accounts are in line with the regulations in force. however, i would also point out that the court of auditors' assessment has shown that the supervisory and control systems at europeaid's headquarters and within the union delegations are partially effective in ensuring the legality and regularity of payments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2012, giving discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2012. the overall commitments, the individual commitments and the level of payments were eur 3[nbsp ]745 million, eur 3[nbsp ]817 million and eur 3[nbsp ]292 million respectively for the financial year 2012. we encourage transparency and the fight against corruption and fraud as these are essential for the success of budget support operations initiated by the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the cooperation between the council of the european union and the european parliament on budgetary management is still weak. however, there are some improvements compared to 2011, in particular as regards the low level of errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2012. i also consider it useful to set up an audit committee at the level of the general secretariat of the council. the european parliament should be informed of the work of this committee. last but not least, i too would like to deplore the council's decision to appoint a member of the court of auditors, despite the negative opinion of parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section ii european council and council. in its 2012 annual report, the court of auditors included observations to the european council and the council on the existence of errors in the design of procurement procedures: one error relates to the conduct of a negotiated procedure and another to the application of one of the selection criteria. in 2012, the european council and the council had an overall budget of eur 533[nbsp ]920[nbsp ]000 (eur 563[nbsp ]262 480 in 2011), with an implementation rate of 91,8%. parliament is concerned that the unused appropriations rate remains high and suggests that a number of key performance indicators be drawn up for the most critical areas, such as funds for delegation travel, logistics and interpretation services. in 2012, eur 44[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000 of commitment appropriations were cancelled due to insufficient implementation of the funds and reduced use of programmes. parliament reiterated that the budget of the european council should be separated from that of the council in order to improve the transparency of the financial management of these institutions and their accountability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the role of the european external action service is particularly important, especially in the light of recent developments in the union's neighbourhood. the strengthening of the eeas is imperative to enable the european union to have a coherent position in the dialogue with external partners. however, i would like to express my regret at the geographical imbalance in the eeas staff, especially in view of the under-representation of new members. for the next financial year of the union, the role of the eeas in the management of union resources will be all the more important as it will have a budget of eur 96 billion for union external assistance funds, for which it shares responsibility for implementation with the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section x european external action service. we welcome the fact that in the second financial year the european external action service (eeas) continued to implement its budget without significant errors being identified by the court of auditors and that most of the problems identified in the 2011 annual report of the court of auditors as a result of the constitution process have not reappeared. we support the objective of one third of the eeas staff being national diplomats by the mid-2013 deadline and take note that the eeas is not inflexible and that staff selection is based on applications and merit. we regret, however, that a better geographical balance has not yet been achieved in terms of appointments to senior management positions and urge the eeas to take the necessary measures to have a better and more balanced representation of all member states. we also call on the eeas to strengthen the geographical balance of the posts of heads of union delegations and reiterate the need to ensure greater geographical balance among member states at all levels of the administration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which deals with a problem which unfortunately we have been facing quite often lately and which is undermining the confidence of european citizens. i believe that electronic identification systems for cattle will considerably improve their traceability and, most importantly, minimise the risk of possible fraud. and i don't think the benefits stop there, because the management of direct payments to farmers per head would be more efficient and thus even possible payment errors could be reduced. however, i believe that it will take some time to achieve the expected results, in particular with regard to the recognition of electronic identification as an official means of identifying bovine animals.
in writing. - one of the main concerns of the citizens is security. european legislation must therefore ensure their optimum protection by means of updated and stricter provisions, whenever this proves necessary. the electronic identification of bovine animals allows for more reliable data, strengthening the traceability system and at the same time food security. it also allows for faster registration of cattle, automation of certain tasks and more effective management of herds. it is also essential to ensure the harmonisation of technical rules in order to avoid a possible anarchic development of this method of identification and to achieve interoperability between national devices. given the wide diversity of european bovine breeders, i consider that electronic identification should remain optional for breeders, unless the member state concerned decides to make it mandatory on its territory.
in writing. - this commission legislative proposal provides for greater clarity and improved applicability of legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine animals, thus contributing to consumer protection and public health, and promoting consumer confidence. i consider that such general rules at european union level are absolutely necessary for the correct electronic identification of bovine animals, for the simplification of the provisions on the labelling of beef and veal and for the protection of consumers by providing objective information which can be verified by the competent authorities and which is understood by consumers. in addition, the expansion of the electronic devices market through this regulation will lead to lower prices and to the future generalisation of this identification method in line with ongoing developments worldwide.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals and the abolition of the provisions on the optional labelling of beef and veal. regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 provides that each member state is to establish a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals in accordance with the provisions of that regulation. in view of technological advances in the field of electronic identification of bovine animals (eid), several member states have decided to start implementing optional eid of bovine animals. these initiatives are likely to result in different systems being developed in individual member states or by stakeholders. such a development would prevent further harmonisation of technical standards at union level. i believe that they should ensure that the systems introduced in the member states are interoperable and comply with iso standards. member states have very different livestock systems, farming practices and sectoral organisations. therefore, i consider that member states should be allowed to introduce mandatory bse on their territory only if they consider it appropriate, after taking into account all factors, including any negative effects at the level of small farmers, and after consulting the representative organisations of the bovine sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and for the discharge to be given to the court of justice, in particular because of the extremely important role that this institution plays in ensuring that european law and values are respected in all the member states. i would like to reiterate the idea that in order to make the work of the court of justice more efficient, additional judges will be needed in the near future. a further argument in favour of such a decision is the lower number of closed cases compared to 2011. however, i would also like to express my support for the rationalisation of the translation services at the court of justice, as the staff employed in such posts represents approximately 47% of the total.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iv court of justice. the number of cases pending and closed by the general court decreased slightly in 2012 compared to previous years (e.g. 1[nbsp ]308 cases pending in 2011 and 1[nbsp ]237 cases pending in 2012). we regret, however, that the number of closed cases has decreased and we consider that the proposal for the creation of the possibility of appointing additional judges to the general court, currently under consideration by the council, could contribute to an effective reduction in the number of pending cases. we request clear information on the productivity of each chamber of three or five judges of the court of justice and the general court and of each chamber of three or one judge of the civil service tribunal. we also request information on the number of cases dealt with as rapporteurs by the president and vice-president after the reorganisation of the court of justice. calls on the court of justice, the general court and the civil service tribunal to provide an overview of the number of cases pending for more than 24 months;
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the court of auditors has a vital role in assessing the way in which european finances are managed by the community institutions. i would like to point out, however, that as far as translation services are concerned, there are very large differences in costs for different languages. finally, i would like to welcome, as does the report, the fact that the average time for preparing a special report has been reduced from 25 to 20 months since 2008. this allows for the shortcomings to be remedied in a shorter time and for significant savings to be made.
in writing. - today's vote has given the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2012. parliament also encouraged and supported the work of the court of auditors, in particular its efforts to allocate more resources to performance audits and to verify that the objectives of economy, effectiveness and efficiency were actually achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, according to the independent external auditor who audited the court of auditors' annual accounts, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the court's financial position for the financial year 2012. however, the court of auditors should reduce differences in substantial variations between translation costs for different languages and apply the same method of calculation as in other institutions to allow a comparison of translation costs between institutions. the court of auditors should also include in its annual report the results of cases closed by olaf and reported by the court of auditors and the results of cases where the investigation concerned the institution or a person working for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section v court of auditors. we support the court of auditors' assessment of the quality and impact of its work and welcome the results achieved. we support the court's efforts to allocate more resources to performance audits and analyses aimed at determining whether the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness have been respected. it is recalled that for the budgetary and legislative authority, it is necessary for the court of auditors to issue not only a statement of assurance on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, but also reliable and viable opinions on the results achieved by the various union policies. we would point out that some member states are over-represented at management level, while member states that have joined in the last 10 years are still under-represented at the level of heads of unit or directors. we reiterate the need to ensure greater geographical balance at all levels of government.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, although the rate of implementation of the european economic and social committee budget was lower than in 2010, the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2012 were not affected by a significant level of error. i also welcome the fact that previous recommendations of the european parliament have been followed and that the declarations of financial interests of the members of the european economic and social committee have been made public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section vi european economic and social committee. the eesc's budget for 2012 was eur 128 816 588 (eur 128 600 000 in 2011) with an implementation rate of 96,8%. the eesc budget is purely administrative, with a large part going to the people who work in the institution, and the remainder going to buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous running costs. the 2012 execution rate of 96.8[nbsp ]% is higher than that of 2011 which was 95.4[nbsp ]%, but lower than that of 2010 which was 98[nbsp ]%. parliament calls on the eesc to ensure an even higher rate of implementation for future periods. takes note of the council decision on the level of the allowances for eesc members of september 2013 and welcomes the fact that the eesc has implemented the new rules on the reimbursement of travel expenses of members on the basis of actual costs, as recommended by parliament; parliament also welcomes the fact that the decision to make the declarations of financial interests of eesc members public was implemented in 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the committee of the regions' budget execution is higher than in the previous year and the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2012 were not affected by a significant level of error. however, as with other european institutions, i believe that the management of human resources can be further improved, with the aim of achieving the highest possible degree of efficiency under the budgetary conditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section vii committee of the regions. in 2012, the committee had an approved budget of eur 86503000 (eur 84059000 in 2011), of which eur 85000000 was in commitment appropriations, with a utilisation rate of 98,2%, an increase from the rate of 97,5% in 2011. the budget of the committee shall be purely administrative. parliament welcomed the establishment of a subsidiarity coordination group to strengthen the political governance of the committee and to implement the committee's new strengthened role, as provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we welcome the committee's internal organisation projects, which aim to promote cooperation between services and to create synergies in the framework of joint activities and actions. we ask the committee to continue to monitor the staff structure to ensure maximum efficiency in the organisation of posts and its contribution to better use of the budget allocated. parliament considered that the administrative cooperation agreement between the committee and the eesc is an effective mechanism and recommended that the committee keep this mechanism in an updated form.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and for the discharge to be given to the european ombudsman. i am very familiar with the role of this institution because, as vice-chairman of the committee on petitions of the european parliament, i have often worked with this structure and its representatives. the european ombudsman has a particularly important role to play in protecting the interests of union citizens. the commission's investigations have on several occasions led to the initiation of infringement proceedings by member states. i therefore believe that the role of the institution must be strengthened and its powers extended in order to better protect the rights and interests of the citizens of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section viii european ombudsman. we are pleased to note that the court of auditors found no significant deficiencies in its 2012 annual report on the european ombudsman with regard to the audited aspects of human resources and procurement procedures. it should be noted that the ombudsman's budget is purely administrative, amounting in 2012 to eur 9[nbsp ]516[nbsp ]500, of which eur 7[nbsp ]275[nbsp ]000 was allocated to title i (expenditure relating to the institution's staff), eur 1[nbsp ]656[nbsp ]500 was allocated to title ii (buildings, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure) and eur 585[nbsp ]000 was allocated to title iii (expenditure relating to the institution's performance of its specific tasks). we invite the ombudsman to include in his future annual activity report the unused appropriations for interpreting services requested for the financial year in question. we ask the ombudsman to cooperate with other institutions to develop a uniform methodology for presenting translation costs in order to simplify the analysis and comparison of these costs. we ask the ombudsman to specify in detail in his annual activity report how much of his budget he spends on promotion and communication with citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and the discharge for the european data protection supervisor. the court of auditors' reports have shown that the overall payments made by the authority for administrative and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2012 are free from material error and that the systems examined for the supervision and control of administrative and other expenditure have been effective. however, i believe that improvements can be made to the way the institution operates, in particular as regards the rate of implementation of expenditure relating to its staff.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of granting the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2012. the report highlights progress in improving the management of allowances and the court of auditors' conclusion that the measures taken have been effective. parliament also welcomed the willingness of the guarantor to continue improving its supervision and control system in a timely manner and called on the guarantor to continue monitoring the management of benefits and to improve the level of results achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge to the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2012. the court of auditors did not find any significant errors in the overall payments made for administrative and other expenditure, human resources or procurement procedures of the authority. the improvement in the management of claims and the fact that the authority plans to further improve its monitoring and control system in a timely manner is to be welcomed. the authority should continue to focus on increasing efficiency, sound financial management and efficient use of the appropriations allocated to it in the exercise of its responsibilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section ix - european data protection supervisor, giving discharge to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. the discharge shall be based on the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012, together with the institutions' replies. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section ix european data protection supervisor. we note that in 2012 the authority had commitment appropriations totalling eur 7[nbsp ]624[nbsp ]090 and an execution rate of 89,69% of these appropriations and we consider this to be a positive development, but we ask for further efforts to improve the execution rate and for monitoring of changes. in view of the reorganisation of the authority's secretariat and the consequent creation of a new ict unit, we request that the european parliament be informed of the budgetary impact of this reform.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, as the increase in the number of european union agencies in recent years implies the need for a coherent approach to the way they manage their budget. although the degree of decentralisation of these agencies is quite high, there must be a uniform discharge procedure. in general, the problems faced by these bodies are related to the fact that the declarations of interests and cvs of the majority of the members of the boards of directors, senior management and external and internal experts are still not made available to the public. this undermines the transparency of the agencies and reduces citizens' confidence in their work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eu agencies for the financial year 2012: performance, financial management and control. parliament recognises the role of agencies in supporting union policies from the initiation phase to their implementation and calls for these competences and capacity to be used more extensively in achieving the europe 2020 objectives. parliament encourages the court of auditors to develop the elements of performance auditing, both in its annual audit reports and in the special reports it issues to the agencies. all agencies are reminded of their obligation to submit to the discharge authority a report drawn up by the director, summarising the number and type of internal audits carried out by the internal auditor, the recommendations made and the follow-up to those recommendations. we note with concern that, as in previous years, the court of auditors has identified a number of problems affecting several agencies, in particular: weaknesses in budget planning; possible conflicts of interest; procurement and contract management; lack of transparency or rigour in recruitment; deferrals that are not justified by commitments or are excessively high; weaknesses in the verification of grant operations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and for the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. according to the court of auditors' reports, the agency provided assurances on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2012. also, as regards recruitment procedures, they have been improved compared to the previous year. however, there are some problems with the additional tuition allowances offered to employees. although they are justified, they were granted outside the provisions of the staff regulations.
in writing. - the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators should follow the action plan established to improve the high-risk issues identified by the internal audit service, in particular in areas such as planning and monitoring, performance evaluation and career development, document and data management, facility management, logistics, security, stakeholder relations and communication, internal market monitoring, cooperation with national regulatory authorities and monitoring and enforcement of network codes. i believe that the agency should communicate in an accessible way, mainly through its website, the results of its work and its impact on european citizens. the agency should also take the necessary measures to make public the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the board of regulators, the executive director, the senior management and the experts who are part of the agency's expert groups, as well as the cvs of the members of the management board and the board of appeal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep decisions on discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acarde), granting the director of acarde discharge and approving the closure of the accounts for the implementation of the acarde budget for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the ep resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the acarde budget for the financial year 2012. the budget of acarde for the financial year 2012 was eur 7[nbsp ]241[nbsp ]850[nbsp ], representing an increase of 51,11% compared to 2011, which can be explained by the fact that the agency was recently established. the audit of the recruitment procedures revealed shortcomings affecting transparency and equal treatment of candidates, in particular that interview and test questions were not prepared before the examination of applications, the conditions for admission to written tests and interviews and the conditions for inclusion in the list of eligible candidates were not sufficiently detailed, and the measures taken to ensure the anonymity of candidates taking the written tests were inadequate. we invite acarde to remedy this situation and to inform the discharge authority of the progress made in this regard.
in writing. - i voted to postpone the discharge to the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012. the lack of legal commitments corresponding to committed appropriations carried over and the low budgetary execution are reasons why the discharge cannot be granted at this time. the procurement procedures also need to be considerably improved and recruitment needs to be more transparent. last but not least, i am also in favour of the publication of cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management committee, the administrative director and senior management on the agency's website.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep decisions on discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec), postponing the decision to grant discharge to the administrative director of berec and postponing the decision on the closure of the accounts for the implementation of berec's budget for the financial year 2012. we regret that an amount of approximately eur 101[nbsp ]000 representing 45% of committed appropriations carried over from 2011 has been cancelled. we also express our concern that a number of appropriations amounting to eur 545[nbsp ]000 representing 17% of the total appropriations for 2012 were not used and had to be cancelled. we consider that this demonstrates difficulties in planning and/or executing berec's activities, given that the deferrals in the 2012 financial year were mostly related to delays in the recruitment process and the lack of an effective policy to ensure timely presentation and reimbursement of the costs declared by experts for the missions carried out. we invite berec to resolve this issue and to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken by 1 september 2014.
in writing. - i supported the discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union as the court of auditors' annual audit did not identify any significant issue with regard to the level of carry-overs in 2012. i would point out, however, that the centre held cash and short-term deposits of eur 35000000 at the end of the 2012 financial year. the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, the executive director and the senior management are not publicly available. this situation must be remedied as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2012. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 87,45% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 90,23%. we acknowledge that the court of auditors' annual audit did not identify any significant issues with regard to the level of carry-overs in 2012. we congratulate the centre on its adherence to the principle of annuality and on the timely execution of its budget. we note that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, the executive director and senior management are not publicly available and we call on the centre to remedy this situation as a matter of urgency. we ask the centre to communicate in an accessible way, mainly through its website, the results of its work and its impact on european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and for the discharge to be given to the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2012. i believe that the role of this agency has become very important in recent years, given the alarming rates of unemployment among young people. the centre can help identify sustainable solutions to tackle this problem. however, for the agency to work effectively, it needs to be as transparent as possible about how it operates. for example, the absence of cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, as well as the declarations of interests of the executive director and senior management should be publicly accessible.
in writing. - the centre's key role in promoting vocational education and training (vet) in the european union at a time when new methods of training are needed and its contribution to policies that seek to use the potential of vet to support economic development and facilitate the transition from learning to employment, particularly in the context of the economic downturn, is noteworthy. the high execution rates for all securities and the number of budgetary transfers, which were reduced by more than 25% compared to the previous year (55 transfers in 2012 compared to 77 in 2011), are also noteworthy. the high rate of carry-over of commitment appropriations was mainly caused by situations beyond the control of the centre, such as delays in the repair works carried out by the greek authorities at the centre's premises, which were not completed in 2012. the centre should continue its efforts to reduce the carry-over of commitment appropriations from title 2 and to reduce the number of transfers. more detailed checks on staff costs reported by beneficiaries should also be carried out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) for the financial year 2012, giving the director of the cedefop discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget and closing the accounts of the cedefop for 2012. i voted in favour of the resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the cedefop for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the edps for the financial year 2012 was eur 19[nbsp ]216[nbsp ]951[nbsp ], representing an increase of 1,83% compared to the 2011 budget, and the overall union contribution to the edps budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 16[nbsp ]933[nbsp ]900[nbsp ], representing a reduction of 0,31% compared to 2011. in accordance with the court of auditors' findings, the members of the pre-selection committee did not sign any declaration of absence of conflict of interest in the first two recruitment procedures for the post of director of the edps, which were initiated in 2010 and 2011 and which ended in failure. we are concerned that the interview questions and their weighting, as well as the minimum scores for inclusion on the list of eligible candidates, were set after the selection of candidates.
in writing. - i voted to close the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2012 as the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the college's annual accounts and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, i note that a large part of the committed loans, carried over from 2011, were cancelled in 2012. this situation risks creating unpredictability in the college's budgetary management. in addition, as in the case of the other agencies, the absence of information (cvs and declarations of interests) on who is on the management board does not contribute to the transparent functioning of the college.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college (epc) for the financial year 2012, granting the director of the epc discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the epc for the financial year 2012 and approving the closure of the epc accounts. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the cep for the financial year 2012 was eur 8[nbsp ]450[nbsp ]640[nbsp ], which represents an increase of 1,31% compared to the budget for 2011. we note with concern that the discussions on the future of the college, which have been ongoing for several years, have created a situation of uncertainty that continues to affect the planning and conduct of activities. we stress that the issue of the future seat of the college must be clarified as soon as possible before the end of 2014, for reasons of budgetary planning and staffing as highlighted by the court of auditors. we call on cep to urgently remedy the situation whereby the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the board of directors, the executive director and senior management are not publicly available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and implicitly for the discharge to be given to the european aviation safety agency. recently, there has been a growing push to achieve a true european sky. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation security policy and to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation security policy. on another note, i note that working instructions were adopted for both fixed asset management and inventory management and a full inventory was carried out in 2012, resulting in the liquidation of fully depreciated assets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2012. we recall the key role played by the agency in ensuring a high level of aviation safety throughout europe and that the current revision of the single european sky regulations could lead to the extension of the agency's competences. in the event of such an extension of powers, we insist on the need to make available to the agency the financial, material and human resources to enable it to successfully carry out the tasks entrusted to it. in its report on the annual accounts, the court of auditors indicated that, of the five observations made in 2011, two corrective actions taken following the observations of the previous year are presented as ongoing and three as finalised. we welcome the adoption by the agency of a one-year standstill period during which any newly-joined person will not be directly allocated files that he has worked directly with during the five years preceding his arrival in the organisation. we also ask the agency to communicate in an accessible way, mainly through its website, the results of its work and its impact on european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and for the closure of the accounts of the european asylum support office. however, i must also note that the office's accounting system has not yet been validated, which continues to create problems in the management of the agency's budget. the high level of reported committed loans is also another aspect that will need to be improved in the coming period. last but not least, the overestimation of budgetary needs shows that the efficiency of budgetary planning also needs to be strengthened.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (the office) for the financial year 2012. the european asylum support office was granted financial autonomy on 20 september 2012 and until that date its budget was implemented by the european commission. according to its financial statements, the office's budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 10[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000[nbsp ] and the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. we ask the office to communicate in an accessible way, mainly through its website, the results of its work and its impact on european citizens. we believe that the annual activity report of the office should be published at least in all the official languages of the union, not only in english, as is currently the case.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i too support the approval of the closure of the accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2012. the establishment of the european banking authority is an essential step in the development of a genuine eu-wide banking union. the role of this body in monitoring the european banking system will be very important, especially in the context of the adoption of the bank resolution mechanism, the banking supervision mechanism and the deposit guarantee scheme. however, a number of problems persist in the transparent functioning of the authority, in particular given that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board and the board of supervisors, as well as the declarations of interests of the executive director and senior management staff, are not public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba) for the financial year 2012, granting the executive director of the eba discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eba for the financial year 2012 and approving the closure of the accounts of the eba for the implementation of the budget of the eba for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the eba for the financial year 2012 was eur 20[nbsp ]747[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], representing an increase of 63,56% compared to the 2011 budget, which is explained by the fact that the authority was established recently. we stress that the additional tasks entrusted to the authority, as well as the expected future tasks, will require budgetary increases and additional human resources in order to properly fulfil its supervisory role. the court of auditors identified weaknesses in the audited recruitment procedures affecting transparency and equal treatment, namely that the candidates were awarded an overall score instead of a score for each of the selection criteria and that there was no evidence to show that the questions to be used for interviews and tests had been set prior to the date of the examination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of closing the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2012 because that body has carried out all the corrective actions suggested by the court of auditors of the european union. i would also like to note that the vacancy rate at the agency has improved considerably compared to 2011. however, i would like to draw attention to the degree of transparency of this body, especially because the information available on its work is not complete and the impact on european citizens is not detailed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2012. during the financial year 2012, budget monitoring efforts resulted in a budget implementation rate of 93,91%. the execution rate of payment appropriations was 76,26% and the budget execution rates for staff and administrative expenditure were satisfactory, reaching 97% and 80% of the appropriations committed respectively. in accordance with the annual activity report and the court of auditors' audit findings, the level and nature of transfers in 2012 remained within the financial rules and we congratulate the centre for effective budget planning. in 2012, the commission's internal audit service carried out an audit on human resources management in order to assess and provide independent assurance on the design and effective application of the internal control system for human resources management. we ask the centre to communicate in an accessible way, mainly through its website, the results of its work and its impact on european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2012. with technological progress and the emergence of more and more chemical compounds on the eu market, a specialised body was needed to verify their compliance with environmental and health standards. the agency shall make a decisive contribution to the achievement of those objectives. however, as in other cases, i believe that the public communication of this agency needs to be improved, so that european citizens are as well informed as possible about the role of the agency and the measures it promotes in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency (echa) for the financial year 2012, granting the executive director of the echa discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the echa for the financial year 2012 and approving the closure of the accounts of the echa for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the eaggf budget for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the eeas for the financial year 2012 was eur 98[nbsp ]900[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], representing an increase of 6,12[nbsp ]% compared to the budget for 2011. we regret that the results of the physical inventory show serious shortcomings in the preservation and traceability of the immobilizations and that there is no procedure for tracing the software and internal components (2[nbsp ]370 items out of 5[nbsp ]878 ict immobilizations were registered). in addition, we are concerned that 306 items, including 93 laptops and 29 computers, could not be found. we invite the agency to remedy this situation and to closely monitor this matter before the 2013 discharge procedure is initiated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, unlike in previous years, the european environment agency achieved a much more transparent budget execution in 2012 and the observations of the parliament and the court of auditors were taken into account, with a clear improvement in budget management. however, i note that, as in previous years, the mission expenses of the executive director of the agency were considerably higher than those of the executive directors of other agencies. in addition, as in the case of many other union agencies, the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, the members of the scientific committee, the executive director and the management staff shall not be made public.
in writing. - the european parliament has granted the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. in accordance with the annual activity report and the court of auditors' audit findings, the level and nature of transfers in 2012 remained within the limits of the financial rules. the agency has demonstrated effective budget planning and timely execution of its budget. in addition, the agency has completed the implementation of all the measures implied by the previous comments made by the court of auditors. following the finding that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the management board, the members of the scientific committee, the executive director and the management staff are not public, i consider it justified to require the agency to remedy this situation as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012. according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012 was eur 41[nbsp ]700[nbsp ]000 representing an increase of 1,25[nbsp ]% over the 2011 budget. according to its financial statements, the union contribution to the agency's budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 35[nbsp ]363[nbsp ]354,85, representing a reduction of 0,23[nbsp ]% compared to the 2011 budget. we welcome the improvement in the agency's staffing rate compared to 2011, with 131 of 136 posts occupied at the end of 2012 and 86 contract staff and seconded national experts employed by the authority. the agency will carry out an assessment to identify its exposure to strengthen or complement its policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest and to assess its implementation, monitoring and reporting in the first quarter of 2014 on the basis of the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in eu decentralised agencies. the agency is invited to inform the discharge authority of the results of the evaluation as soon as they are available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2012. the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy is impossible without a strengthened action by the agency. the missions carried out by the agency in 2012 were characterised by a high degree of efficiency and effectiveness. in the context of a future fisheries policy with a stronger component of species conservation and the sustainability of activities, it is clear that the role of the agency will need to be strengthened, including by extending its operational capacity.
in writing. - the european parliament today granted the executive director of the european fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. i would like to underline the importance of the role played by the agency in adopting and implementing the reform of the common fisheries policy and its particular contribution to the implementation of the ambitious objectives of the cfp, especially in view of the increased level of strictness of the monitoring, control and surveillance requirements for fisheries activities. on a positive note, following the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2011, the agency took corrective actions in june 2012 to improve the transparency of recruitment procedures. i believe that the agency should communicate in a more accessible way, mainly through its website, the results of its work and its impact on european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge decision for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2012. we underline the importance of the role of the agency in adopting and implementing the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). we highlight the important contribution made by the agency to the implementation of the ambitious objectives of the cfp, especially in view of the increased level of strictness of the monitoring, control and surveillance requirements for fisheries activities. we also stress the importance of controls, which will benefit from an increased budget to support additional financial effort in this area. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 96% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 83%. the agency has improved its procurement procedures by systematically documenting and archiving estimates of contract values and keeping selection criteria as specific as possible. we appreciate that the agency's vacancy notices now include information on the procedures for lodging appeals and the agency has also made the necessary changes to the documentation for the selection board meetings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also welcome the increase in the budget execution rate to 99.30% and the execution rate of payment appropriations to 88%. i consider that the authority is one of the union bodies that has achieved particularly effective budget planning in 2012.
in writing. - as shown in the annual activity report and in the court of auditors' audit findings, the european food safety authority has demonstrated effective budget planning, the level and nature of transfers in 2012 remaining within the limits of the financial rules. i also welcome the comprehensive self-assessment of its internal control system carried out by the authority in 2012 following the findings of the court of auditors on the reliability of accounting data, internal controls and budget management. i believe that the authority should continue to pay close attention to public opinion and engage as much as possible in an open and transparent dialogue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) and on the closure of the accounts, granting the executive director of the efsa discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the efsa for the financial year 2012 and approving the closure of the accounts of the easa for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the easa for the financial year 2012. the final budget of easa for the financial year 2012 was eur 78[nbsp ]279[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], representing an increase of 1,25[nbsp ]% compared to the 2011 budget. we consider that financial interests in particular should be treated with the utmost care and that experts should be required to declare whether or not their interests have been remunerated. we consider that, where interest has been remunerated, the amount should be specified. we believe that the current forms for declarations of interest could be further improved and should include, inter alia, information on the following: (i) whether the declared interest was remunerated; (ii) the amount of the remuneration; (iii) participation in conferences related to the sector concerned and the institution/person covering the expenditure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality in 2012. its work and role are particularly important in promoting gender equality and in particular in mainstreaming the principle of equality between women and men in all national and community policies, which i have also supported during this mandate. in addition, the institute had a budget execution rate of 95,56[nbsp ]% and reduced the overall level of committed carry-overs from 50[nbsp ]% in 2011 to 32[nbsp ]% in 2012, and the nature of the transfers in 2012 remained within the limits of the financial rules, so we are dealing with effective budget planning.
in writing. - the important role of the european institute for gender equality in promoting gender equality, including the mainstreaming of the principle of equality between women and men, in all union policies and in the national policies resulting therefrom, is to be appreciated. the institute's annual accounts, which correspond to a budget of eur 7[nbsp ]700[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], present fairly, in all material respects, its actual financial position as at 31 december 2012 and the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2012 are in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation. the institute does not have a formal procurement planning and monitoring procedure and its annual work programme does not include a procurement calendar related to the planned activities. however, only 7% of the committed appropriations carried over to 2012 were not used and had to be cancelled. the institute should therefore improve procurement planning and monitoring by creating a monitoring tool and developing guidelines on budget monitoring. the institute should update its recruitment guidelines in order to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors and to find satisfactory solutions to the problems that have arisen in this regard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for equal opportunities for women and men (iees), granting the director of the iees discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the iees for the financial year 2012 and approving the closure of the accounts. i voted in favour of the resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eees for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the iees for the financial year 2012 was eur 7[nbsp ]741[nbsp ]800, representing an increase of 2,81% compared to the 2011 budget. we invite the iees to remedy the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors in the institute's documentation of its recruitment procedures. in particular, there is no evidence that the questions for the written tests and for the interviews, and their respective weightings, were set before the examination of the applications. we note with concern that the iees does not have a formal procedure for planning and monitoring procurement procedures. its annual work programme does not include a procurement calendar corresponding to the planned activities and setting out the subject-matter and the optimal timing of procurement procedures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in 2012. this is an authority that has a particularly important role to play in economic recovery, as well as in creating sustainable jobs and growth, by promoting the safety and soundness of insurance and reinsurance institutions and protecting the interests of insured persons and pension scheme members. i would, however, like to draw attention again to the fact that the system of blended funding of this authority creates a number of unnecessary bureaucratic burdens and calls into question its very independence.
in writing. - the authority's role in promoting the safety and soundness of insurance and reinsurance institutions and in protecting the interests of insured persons and members of pension schemes is essential for economic recovery as well as for the creation of sustainable jobs and growth in europe. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the authority has implemented an action plan that has allowed the improvement of its procurement procedures in order to fully comply with union procurement rules. the additional tasks entrusted to the authority, as well as future tasks envisaged in the legislative proposals that have not yet been agreed, will require additional budgetary increases and human resources in order for the authority to properly fulfil its supervisory role. this is of paramount importance as the authority is likely to take on new tasks in the future. any additional human resources should be preceded or accompanied, where possible, by streamlining efforts, such as the operation of reallocation to increase efficiency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) and on the closure of the accounts, granting discharge to the executive director of the eiopa and approving the closure of the accounts of the eiopa for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the eawf budget for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the eiopa for the financial year 2012 was eur 15[nbsp ]655[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], which represents an increase of 46,76% compared to the 2011 budget, as the eiopa was established recently. we regret that a contract for the design of a financial database was subdivided into four lots of eur 60[nbsp ]000 each, all of which were directly awarded to two companies. we consider that, given the total value of the services to be procured for the same project (eur 240[nbsp ]000), an open procedure or a restricted procedure should have been applied and therefore the commitments and payments related to this procedure are not in conformity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for 2012. the work of the institute has a significant impact on the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy from the point of view of innovation at eu and beyond. although the situation regarding the questionable quality of the audit certificates needs to be remedied as soon as possible, the annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations in all material respects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) and on the closure of the accounts, granting the director of the eit discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eit for the financial year 2012 and approving the closure of the accounts of the eit. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ieit for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the ieit for the financial year 2012 was eur 95[nbsp ]300[nbsp ]000[nbsp ] in commitment appropriations, representing an increase of 48,87% compared to the 2011 budget, and eur 77[nbsp ]090 000[nbsp ] in payment appropriations. the overall union contribution to the budget of the ieit for the financial year 2012 was eur 68697863, compared to eur 84343439,83 in 2011. it is noted that the ieit carried out, as an integral part of its ex ante checks, technical checks for all the projects financed. we regret, however, that the lack of quantifiable objectives has prevented effective evaluation of project activities and results and call on the ieit to remedy this situation and to inform the discharge authority of the progress made.
in writing. - i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the 2012 budget of the european medicines agency, whose role is vital for protecting and promoting public health through the evaluation and surveillance of medicines for human and veterinary use. i note, however, that the agency applies different criteria for the recognition of tax revenue and associated expenditure, which is contrary to the principle of linking expenditure to revenue. on the other hand, i welcome the fact that the agency has revised its policy on dealing with conflicts of interest and improved its collaboration with a number of patient, consumer and healthcare organisations to take their views into account.
in writing. - the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2012 was given today by vote of the european parliament. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency reviewed its policy on the treatment of conflicts of interest of members of scientific committees and experts and organised a public seminar on conflicts of interest, aimed at defining the appropriate balance between ensuring the impartiality and independence of experts involved in the work of the agency and ensuring the best possible scientific knowledge. the agency works closely with a number of patient and consumer organisations and healthcare organisations. considers it necessary for the agency to take measures to publicly disclose information on the funding of all patient, consumer and healthcare organisations with which it cooperates and to carry out a conflict of interest check on those organisations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge decision in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2012. according to its financial statements, the overall union contribution to the agency's budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 31341107,18, representing a reduction of 6,50% compared to 2011. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. we reaffirm the important role of the agency in the protection and promotion of public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. in 2012, the commission's internal audit service (ias) carried out an audit on the planning and budget allocation within the agency, as well as a follow-up audit on recommendations concerning internal control standards, the provision of scientific advice, human resources management, the follow-up audit of 2010 and the audits on the agency's business continuity management. we ask the agency to communicate in an accessible way, mainly through its website, the results of its work and its impact on european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in 2012. i welcome the fact that in 2012 the observatory has streamlined and further reduced its maintenance costs, revising its security parameters and reducing energy consumption, and i find the new treasury policy, which has reduced and allocated financial risk, to be appropriate. in addition, the budget execution rate stood at 99,74[nbsp ]% and the court of auditors did not identify any significant problem with regard to the level of carry-overs in 2012.
in writing. - the court of auditors' annual audit did not identify any significant problems with regard to the level of carry-overs in 2012, the reliability of the observer's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i particularly appreciate the observatory's adherence to the principle of annuality, the timely execution of its budget and the effective budget planning it has demonstrated. i believe that the observatory should review its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest on the basis of the commission's guidelines and improve its recruitment and procurement procedures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2012. unfortunately, the observatory currently bears an annual cost of approximately eur 200[nbsp ]000 for unused office space located in the former observatory building and in its new premises. we invite the observatory to prioritise cooperation with the commission and national authorities to identify appropriate solutions for these unused office space and to report to the discharge authority, in the context of the 2012 discharge, on the measures taken to this end. the observatory will review its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest on the basis of the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in eu decentralised agencies. we also invite the monitoring trustee to inform the discharge authority of the results of the evaluation as soon as they are available. we note that the cvs and declarations of interests of the members of the administrative board and the management of the observatory, as well as the declaration of interest of the executive director, are not made publicly available and we call on the observatory to remedy this situation as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - i voted to close the accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2012. maritime safety in europe is of paramount importance and the agency has a role to play as a guarantor of this. in order to successfully carry out its tasks, the agency should benefit from adequate financial support, but also ensure the rational and proper implementation of the budget. the irregularities found by the court of auditors, amounting to eur 0.8 million, must be avoided in the future through a fair and transparent budgetary analysis. we also point out the need to improve accounting procedures and cost information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2012. the agency has a duty to ensure that, by making use of all possible savings and by making smart use of existing administrative structures, it can fulfil its newly allocated competences without an unnecessary increase in the budget, taking into account that the agency needs to avoid unnecessary overlaps with the work of national authorities. we note with concern that the court of auditors identified shortcomings in the transparency of two recruitment procedures carried out in the first half of 2012, as neither the questions to be used for the written tests and interviews nor their weighting were established before the examination of applications. furthermore, the minimum score that candidates had to obtain to be included in the list of eligible candidates was not established. following the observations made by the court of auditors in respect of the previous year, the agency implemented corrective measures, so that no further deficiencies were detected in the two audited recruitment procedures carried out in the second half of 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report proposing to close the accounts of the european agency for network and information security for the financial year 2012. according to the court of auditors' audit, it is one of the european agencies with the fewest comments and should be a model for annual budget implementation. as in the case of most agencies, we note the unavailability of cvs and declarations of interests of officials in management positions. i hereby request the agency to publish these documents on the official website in order to promote and guarantee the transparency and fairness governing the european agency for network and data security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for network and information security for the financial year 2012. the value of carry-overs at the end of the financial year 2012 represented 13[nbsp ]% of the annual budget for title iii and 2[nbsp ]% of the annual budget for title ii, and the total amount carried-over represented 8,5[nbsp ]% of the annual budget. the first inventory was launched in april 2013 using the abac assets application (abac assets), with the agency checking the existence, valuation, eligibility and correctness of fixed asset records. the agency took the necessary measures to correct the lack of transparency in the recruitment procedures and the court of auditors, in its report, marked this issue as completed. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 91,45%. the court of auditors' annual audit found no major problems with the level of carry-overs in 2012 and congratulates the agency for respecting the principle of annuality and for the timely execution of the budget. the board of directors approved and signed the decision on the practical modalities for the implementation of the transparency and confidentiality rules in october 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012 to the european railway agency. however, i do not consider it appropriate that the agency operates in two different locations. there is no justification for this and, more importantly, unnecessary additional costs are incurred at a time when budgetary discipline is vital at both national and european level. despite this, the court of auditors' audit did not find any major problems with carry-overs in 2012, so i also congratulate the agency on the timely execution of the budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2012. we recall the key role played by the agency in the safety and interoperability of rail systems in europe. the agency's competences are currently being reviewed under the fourth railway package and we stress the need to provide the agency with the financial, material and human resources to enable it to successfully fulfil the tasks entrusted to it. we regret that the use of two sites (lille and valenciennes) for the activities generates additional costs for the agency and we request that a decision be taken on a single site for the agency, located in a place easily accessible by public transport, in order to save limited resources and ensure more efficient operation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to close the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2012. as one of the three european economic and financial supervisory authorities, and therefore still in the establishment phase, the authority benefited from an increase of around 20% over the 2011 budget. however, the funding will remain inflexible and liable to jeopardise the independence of this authority if the blended funding system is not abandoned in the near future. given the role of the authority in promoting the stability and security of financial markets, it is very important that the results and impact of its work are made public and accessible to european citizens.
in writing. - the european securities and markets authority has a strategic role in relation to the european economy as it promotes the stability and security of financial markets, ensures the stability of the european financial system and ensures the safe functioning of european stock markets. having found no concerns or errors in the documentation submitted and voting in favour, parliament grants the executive director of the european securities and markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge report for the european securities and markets authority as the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability and legality of the annual accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions of the authority for the financial year 2012. the authority implemented in 2012 a stricter management budget implementation monitoring to ensure timely corrective action on the low execution rates of commitment appropriations. the recruitment forms have also been revised to improve recruitment procedures and a new conflict of interest policy is to be adopted by the management board to ensure a neutral and transparent decision-making process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma), granting discharge to the executive director of esma and approving the closure of the accounts of the esma for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2012. the budget of esma for the financial year 2012 was eur 20279000, representing an increase of 19,53% compared to the 2011 budget, and the overall union contribution to the budget of esma for the financial year 2012 was eur 6408000, representing a decrease of 5,54% compared to 2011. according to the court of auditors' annual audit report, eur 2[nbsp ]800[nbsp ]000 (14[nbsp ]%) of the total appropriations were cancelled and eur 4[nbsp ]200[nbsp ]000 (21[nbsp ]%) of the committed appropriations were carried over in 2013. the high level of cancellations is mainly due to the fact that the budget was drawn up on the basis of a staff scheme completed in full at the beginning of the financial year 2012 and as a result of delays affecting procurement procedures in the it field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i consider that there are no grounds for postponing the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2012, especially as we can observe that the corrective measures adopted in response to the observations relating to the previous financial year have been implemented. in addition, the total level of committed appropriations was 99,9%, so it can be seen that the commitments were made in a timely manner and overall the budget planning was effective.
in writing. - the important role that the foundation has played in contributing to improving human capital development in partner countries is noteworthy; we welcome the achievement of the work programme objectives, as demonstrated by the increase in the number of institutional outputs in 2012, detailed in the annual activity report, as well as the emphasis in the foundation's work on the important aspects of youth employment and a renewed focus on education and training, the sme skills aspect and migration processes. the court of auditors has found the operations underlying the annual accounts of the foundation for the financial year 2012 to be legal and regular and its financial position as at 31 december 2012 is clearly presented. the overall level of committed appropriations remained high (99,9%) in 2012 and was implemented in a timely manner, indicating proper budgetary planning. the foundation's annual accounts reflect the problematic situation of the foundation's headquarters, which remained unresolved in 2012 despite the preventive and mitigation actions undertaken. i welcome the conclusion of an agreement with the regional authorities in 2013 which ensures the continuation of the foundation's activities in the period 2013-2015.
in writing. - parliament acknowledged the emphasis in the activities of the european training foundation on important issues concerning youth employment and the renewed attention to education and vocational training, the skills dimension of smes and migration processes. following the work of the court of auditors and parliament's committee on budgetary control, today's vote approves the closure of the foundation's accounts for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge report for the european training foundation as the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for the financial year 2012. over time, the foundation has played an important role in improving human capital development in partner countries, as evidenced by the increase in institutional outputs in 2012. i welcome the foundation's focus on youth employment, as youth unemployment is a real problem at european level. the foundation also completed the corrective actions on the comments relating to the previous year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2012, granting the director of the eff discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget and approving the closure of the accounts of the eff for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the eff budget for the financial year 2012. the fef budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 20[nbsp ]144[nbsp ]530[nbsp ], representing an increase of 1,48[nbsp ]% compared to the 2011 budget. we underline the important role that the foundation has played in contributing to the enhancement of human capital development in the partner countries and welcome, in this regard, the achievement of the objectives of the work programme. we recognise the emphasis in the work of the eff on the important issues of youth employment and a renewed focus on education and training, the skills aspect in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises and migration processes. we regret that the issue of the fef headquarters remained unresolved in 2012 despite the actions taken and welcome the conclusion of an agreement with the regional authorities in 2013 which ensures the continuation of the fef activities in the period 2013-2015.
in writing. - i voted to close the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2012. the agency's contribution to promoting safety and health standards at work is very important, as demonstrated by the activities undertaken during 2012. it is welcomed that an activity-based budgeting model will be implemented from 2014. i believe that this reform will considerably improve the overall internal planning, but also the monitoring of the annual management plan, and the end result will be an increasingly efficient financial execution.
in writing. - i welcome the agency's continued contribution to promoting high standards of health and safety at work in the eu and note with admiration the important key activities of the agency in 2012, such as the prospective study project on the risks associated with green workplaces and the launch of the healthy workplaces campaign. the new multiannual strategic programme of the agency, closely linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in support of the long-awaited and much-needed european strategy on health and safety at work 2013-2020, is eagerly awaited. the court of auditors has found the operations underlying the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 to be legal and regular. i also welcome the positive development of the negotiations with the spanish authorities on the premises of the agency and the possibility of concluding a headquarters agreement in 2013.
in writing. - noting that the european agency for safety and health at work contributes to the promotion of high standards of safety and health at work in the european union, and welcoming the agency's important activities in 2012, such as the draft outlook on the risks associated with green workplaces and the launch of the campaign for healthy workplaces, parliament approves the closure of the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge report of the european agency for health and safety at work as, according to the court of auditors, there are no major errors in the agency's annual accounts or in the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for the financial year 2012. i welcome the agency's initiative to adopt a conflict of interest policy based on the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in eu decentralised agencies. however, the cvs and declarations of interests of senior management are not public, which needs to be remedied as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (aeshw) for the financial year 2012, giving discharge to the director of the aeshw and approving the closure of the accounts of the aeshw for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the financial year 2012. the budget of the aessm for the financial year 2012 was eur 15[nbsp ]260[nbsp ]512[nbsp ], representing an increase of 6,95[nbsp ]% compared to the 2011 budget. we welcome the contribution of the aessm to promoting high standards of health and safety at work in the union. we underline the importance of some of the agency's key activities in 2012, such as the prospective study project on the risks of green workplaces and the launch of the healthy workplaces campaign. we consider the new multiannual strategic programme of the agency, closely linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in support of the union strategy on health and safety at work 2013-2020, to be very necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting discharge to the euratom supply agency for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. in the case of that agency, the court of auditors found the annual accounts to be reliable as regards their legality and regularity. however, there is a problem with the agency's budget and financial autonomy which is practically non-existent, since the vast majority of expenditure was directly financed by the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency (eaa), granting the director-general of the eaa discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget and approving the closure of the eaa accounts for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european atomic energy community for the financial year 2012. according to the court of auditors, between 2008 and 2011, the aae did not benefit from its own budget, with the commission directly financing and paying all the expenditure. the court of auditors considers that this situation was contrary to the agency's statute. we note with concern that in 2012, although the commission granted the agency an own budget of eur 98[nbsp ]000[nbsp ] (eur 104[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], if financial revenues from own investments are included) following the court's observations, and although article 54 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community and article 6 of the agency's statute provide for the agency to have financial autonomy, the bulk of the agency's expenditure continued to be directly financed by the commission. we ask the commission to provide an explanation for this situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of closing the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2012, as there are no grounds for postponing it. in addition, the foundation's work is important, especially in the current context, where the effects of the financial crisis are felt at the social level, with working conditions in many member states steadily deteriorating. finally, the court of auditors found the operations underlying the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 to be legal and regular and its financial position as at 31 december 2012 was clear.
in writing. - i appreciate the contribution of eurofound to promoting knowledge about living and working conditions in the eu at a time when, in some member states, these conditions continue to deteriorate. it is worth noting the launch of the synthesis report of the fifth european working conditions study, which contains important and relevant findings on trends in quality of work, sustainable work and the ageing workforce, health and well-being, and working time and work-life balance. eurofound's response to the shift in political priorities caused by the economic crisis is to be commended, with the launch of new projects related to the priority themes of the social impact of the crisis, economic recovery and job creation, demographic change and a sustainable public sector. the court of auditors has found that the operations underlying eurofound's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are legal and regular and its financial position as at 31 december 2012 is clearly presented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eflicvm), granting the director of the eflicvm discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eflicvm for the financial year 2012, and approving the closure of the accounts of the eflicvm. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eaggf for the financial year 2012. the final budget of the efsi for the financial year 2012 was eur 21[nbsp ]430[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], representing an increase of 4,03% compared to the 2011 budget. we welcome the contribution of the efsi to promoting knowledge about living and working conditions in the eu at a time when these conditions continue to deteriorate in some member states. we highlight the launch of the synthesis report on the fifth european working conditions study, which contains important and relevant findings on trends in quality of work, sustainable work and the ageing workforce, health and well-being, and working time and work-life balance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, therefore for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2012. i welcome the improvements in this agency and the efforts to reduce the vacancy rate, as well as the efforts to eliminate the lack of transparency in the recruitment process. however, at the end of 2012, 11,74% of the posts were still unfilled. for the same reasons of transparency, it is necessary that the cvs and, in particular, the declarations of interests of officials holding senior positions, be published on the agency's website.
in writing. - the court of auditors has concluded that the annual accounts of eurojust, which has an annual budget of eur 33,3 million for 2012, present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2012, as well as the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended on that date, and that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2012 are legal and in accordance with the laws and regulations in force, in all material respects. the court of auditors considers that improvements are needed in recruitment procedures. in general, more emphasis should be placed on auditing eurojust's sound financial management, that is, on the economy, effectiveness and level of performance with which eurojust has used the appropriations allocated to it for the exercise of its responsibilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge decision in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2012. the annual audit of the court of auditors did not identify any significant issues with regard to the level of carry-overs in 2012 and we congratulate eurojust on adhering to the principle of annuality and on the timely execution of its budget. in accordance with the annual activity report and the court of auditors' audit findings, the level and nature of transfers in 2012 remained within the limits of the financial rules; we congratulate eurojust on its efficient budget planning. we call on eurojust to improve the transparency of recruitment procedures. i also note that there was no evidence to show that the questions to be used for the tests and interviews had been set before the candidates were examined by the selection board and that there is no evidence that the corresponding weight of the written tests and the corresponding weight of the interviews had been set before the candidates were assessed. we request eurojust to monitor the evolution of this issue in the report on the state of play of the 2012 discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2012, in the light of the fact that the court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the operations. however, it should not be overlooked that the office had two postponements which did not correspond to the legal commitments assumed, as such situations should not be repeated in the future. therefore, while i support closing the accounts of the european police office for 2012, it is important that it improves its financial planning in the future.
in writing. - the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the european police office (europol) present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2012. the court of auditors found that the level of carry-overs of commitment appropriations is still high (19,64%), compared with the level of carry-overs of over 40% in the previous year. europol referred to the establishment of the european cybercrime centre, which was decided only in june 2012 and for which new budgetary resources were made available only towards the end of the 2012 financial year. according to the agency, the carry-over of appropriations was necessary to cover this new burden in 2013, for which no additional resources were provided. it is necessary to continue to focus on the verification of the sound financial management of europol, in particular as regards efficiency and performance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge decision for the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2012. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,8[nbsp ]% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 79,7[nbsp ]%. the office made 19 budgetary transfers amounting to eur 4[nbsp ]500[nbsp ]000 affecting 82 of the 115 budget lines. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. we note with concern that the recruitment procedures examined showed three shortcomings, namely: the questions to be used for the written tests and interviews were developed after the selection board examined the applications, there was no evidence that the weighting of the selection criteria used for the shortlist was established before the examination of the applications, and the selection boards did not properly document all the meetings that took place and all the decisions they took. we ask the office to rectify this situation and to provide information on the progress of the actions to be undertaken following the 2012 discharge procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2012, but it is necessary that it review its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the number of sampled union producers in the sample. finally, i welcome the transparency shown by the agency in publishing cvs and declarations of interests for senior officials on its official website.
in writing. - i appreciate the conclusions of the court of auditors that the agency's annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2012 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, and the legality and regularity, in all material respects, of the transactions underlying the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012. the agency should continue to take the necessary measures, such as the introduction of a harassment policy and the employment of confidential advisers, to improve the prevention and management of human resources problems, in particular internal conflicts. supporting the sound financial management of the agency, in particular savings, efficiency and return on budgetary appropriations in the fulfilment of its responsibilities, is important.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge decision in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2012. we note with concern that in 2012 the agency purchased cleaning services through cascading framework contracts from two suppliers and, due to a material error made during the evaluation of the bids, the order of classification of the contractors was incorrectly established. as a result of this error, a contract of eur 56 [nbsp ]784 [nbsp ] was awarded in 2012 and the payments related to this contract are irregular. following the court's audit, the agency has accordingly amended the order of classification of contractors. the court of auditors' annual audit did not identify any significant issues with regard to the level of carry-overs in 2012. we congratulate the agency on its adherence to the principle of annuality and on the timely execution of its budget. the agency will review its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest on the basis of the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in eu decentralised agencies. the agency is invited to inform the discharge authority of the results of the evaluation as soon as they are available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to close the accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2012, but the impossibility of expressing an opinion of the court of auditors on the legality and regularity of the operations raises certain questions. in this respect, and in order to remove any doubts as to the legality and transparency of expenditure, frontex should remedy this situation by establishing systems that meet the requirements of sound budgetary implementation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (aegcofe) and on the closure of the accounts, granting the executive director of aegcofe discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of aegcofe for the financial year 2012 and approving the closure of the accounts. i voted in favour of the ep resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the aegcofe budget for the financial year 2012. the budget of aegcofe for the financial year 2012 was eur 89[nbsp ]578[nbsp ]000 representing a reduction of 24,21[nbsp ]% compared to the budget for 2011. the overall union contribution to aegcofe's budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 84000000, representing a reduction of 24,32% compared to 2011. the court of auditors was unable to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations audited relating to the agency's activities in 2012, which amount to eur 56000000 representing 63% of operational expenditure. it should be noted that aegcofe does not consider that there is a lack of effective ex ante controls, but that these are based on statements by public authorities and on plausibility checks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2012. however, the court of auditors' audit found that there are shortcomings in recruitment procedures, in particular in terms of equal treatment and transparency. in addition, the agency did not provide answers to the questionnaire on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. all these shortcomings must be addressed urgently as they affect the credibility and integrity of the agency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge decision in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2012. budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 99,99%. we note that the level of committed appropriations carried over was relatively high in administrative expenditure, amounting to eur 1[nbsp ]700[nbsp ]000 (38%). this was partly due to events beyond the control of the agency, such as the move of its headquarters to prague in september 2012 and the establishment of the galileo security monitoring centre, which required the provision of certain goods and services in the last quarter of the year. the commission notes that the 2013 work programme was not based on the 2013 work programme, but on the 2013 work programme. we note with concern that the court of auditors identified weaknesses in the audited recruitment procedures affecting transparency and equal treatment, namely the failure to set minimum scores for qualifying for written tests and interviews or for inclusion on the list of eligible candidates and the absence of provisions on the remedies available to rejected candidates in the vacancy notices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which gives the artemis joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2012 budget. however, this is the second time in a row that the court of auditors has had some reservations concerning the regularity and in particular the legality of the transactions underlying the annual accounts following the audit procedure. i therefore strongly support the joint undertaking's report as soon as possible justifying the negative elements identified by the court of auditors, in particular the low rate of implementation of the budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2012. the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors, with the aim of enhancing european competitiveness and sustainability and facilitating the emergence of new markets and applications in society. the joint undertaking started to operate autonomously in october 2009. the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the period of 10 years shall be eur 420[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000 coming from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. we invite the court of auditors to analyse comprehensively the itcs and the other joint undertakings in a separate report, given the considerable sums involved and the risks involved, in particular as regards reputation. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget to finance the expenditure incurred by the joint undertakings in the implementation of the union's research, technological development and demonstration programmes. such an evaluation is urgent as regards the eniac and artemis joint undertakings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to close the accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2012, despite the fact that it has consistently shown a low rate of budget execution. however, the audit carried out by the court of auditors found that the financial situation of the company is fairly reflected in all material respects and the situation regarding management, administration, finance and accounting procedures improved during 2012. however, a high degree of transparency is one of the key elements to reduce the risk of conflicts of interest, which is why it is important that employee cvs are public and that mechanisms to prevent conflicts of interest are well defined.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2012. the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of accelerating the development, validation and demonstration in the european union of green air transport technologies with a view to bringing these technologies to life as soon as possible. the founding members of the joint undertaking are the european union, represented by the commission, the industrial partners who have taken on the role of coordinators of the integrated technology demonstrators (itds), and the associate members of the itds. the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the 10 years shall be eur 800[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000 coming from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. the final amended budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2012 comprised commitment appropriations of eur 205,4 million and payment appropriations of eur 167,9 million. we welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors that the joint undertaking further improved its management, administrative, financial and accounting procedures in 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2012. however, the information available on the implementation of the joint undertaking's ex post audit strategy is not sufficient to enable the court of auditors to establish whether this key control tool is functioning effectively. in this regard, and in order to clarify any shortcomings, we invite the eniac joint undertaking to submit a report to the european parliament on the negative elements identified by the court of auditors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge decision in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2012. the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were established in december 2007 under the 7th framework programme for a period of 10 years to develop key competences in the field of nanoelectronics and key technologies for integrated information systems respectively. artemis started its autonomous activity in october 2009 and eniac obtained financial autonomy in july 2010. the joint undertaking also carried out a limited analysis of the statements of expenditure in 2012, on the basis of which it concluded that the error rate of the programme is below 2%. we reaffirm the need for the joint undertaking to improve the quality of its ex ante and ex post controls without delay and request that the discharge authority be informed of the results of the subsequent ex post audit processes. a high degree of transparency is one of the key elements for reducing the risks of conflicts of interest and we invite the joint undertaking to publish on its website its policy and/or mechanisms for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and the related implementing rules, as well as the list of the members of the governing boards and their cvs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2012. however, at the end of 2012, cash and cash equivalents amounted to eur 12,3 million. this is contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality. in order to remedy this situation, the company must take concrete measures to achieve a balanced budget. however, the joint undertaking has received an unqualified opinion from the court of auditors as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in its accounts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch joint undertaking) and on the closure of the accounts, granting discharge to the executive director of the fch joint undertaking and approving the closure of the accounts of the fch joint undertaking for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the ep resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ipch for the financial year 2012. ipch was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership under regulation (ec) no 521/2008 for a period ending on 31 december 2017 with the aim of focusing on the development of commercial applications, thereby encouraging new industrial efforts towards the rapid mobilisation of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the ipch members are the union, represented by the commission, the new energy world industry grouping (new-ig) and the research community (n.erghy). the maximum union contribution to the ipch for the whole period shall be eur 470[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], an amount coming from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research and from which the share allocated to administrative costs shall not exceed eur 20[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]. the final budget of ipch for the financial year 2012 comprised commitment appropriations of eur 83,3 million and payment appropriations of eur 56,9 million.
in writing. - i voted in favour of closing the accounts of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the innovative medicines technology initiative for the financial year 2012. however, a large proportion of the payment appropriations and commitment appropriations for administrative expenditure for 2012 were still unused at the end of the year. this indicates that the administrative budget was not based on realistic estimates established through the legislative financial statement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge decision in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the innovative medicines initiative for the financial year 2012. the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process so that, in the long term, the pharmaceutical sector produces more effective and safer innovative medicines. the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the 10 years is eur 1 billion from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. we invite the court of auditors to monitor the joint undertaking's policies on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest by preparing a special report on this subject before the next discharge procedure. parliament has in the past requested the court of auditors to draw up a special report on the capacity of the joint undertakings to ensure, together with their private partners, the added value and efficient execution of the union's research, technological development and demonstration programmes. the role of the joint undertakings is to provide funding for long-term industrial investment and to stimulate private investment in research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2012. however, the audit carried out by the court of auditors found that the company's internal control systems were not yet fully finalised and fully implemented. in this respect, several actions are required, the most important of which is the implementation of a management system for regular monitoring of the validity of project cost estimates and for reporting deviations from these estimated costs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep decisions on discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy (iter-jv), granting discharge to the director of iter-jv and approving the closure of iter-jv accounts for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. iter-c was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. its members are euratom, represented by the commission, the member states of euratom and other countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the loan, but that the commission has provided information on the amount of the loan, which is not available. we emphasise the high cash balance, which at the end of the year amounted to eur 51[nbsp ]833[nbsp ]097[nbsp ] (almost 14% of the final payment appropriations available in 2012). we ask iter-ii to take all necessary measures to intensify controls before payments are made to provide assurance on compliance with iter-ii's financial requirements and compliance of underlying costs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of closing the accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2012. however, i also agree that this joint undertaking must implement a number of concrete measures to balance the budget. despite this shortcoming, improvements are noted in the documentation of the joint undertaking's controls on the monitoring of project results, the analysis of project performance, the monitoring of the subcontractor and the certificates on the declarations of expenditure. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state-owned banks have been able to obtain a profit margin of at least eur [0-5] million from the sale of the assets of the company.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking (c-sesar) and on the closure of the accounts, granting discharge to the executive director of the c-sesar joint undertaking and approving the closure of the accounts for the implementation of the c-sesar budget for the financial year 2012. c-sesar was established in february 2007 to carry out the air traffic management research programme in the context of the single european sky (sesar), which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe. the joint undertaking was conceived as a public-private partnership, with the union and eurocontrol as founding members. the sesar project was divided into: a design phase (2004-2007), coordinated by eurocontrol, a first development phase (2008-2016), funded under the 2008-2013 programming period managed by the c-sesar, and a deployment phase (2014-2020), which will run concurrently with the development phase. the 'deployment phase' is expected to be carried out by industrial partners and stakeholders and will consist of the large-scale production and installation of the new air traffic management infrastructure. the final budget of the esser-ic for the financial year 2012 comprised commitment appropriations of eur 156[nbsp ]600[nbsp ]000 and payment appropriations of eur 124[nbsp ]200[nbsp ]000;
in writing. - in recent years, we have increasingly discussed measures to combat tax fraud and evasion at european level. however, the report we are discussing today finds that the number of tax irregularities remained the same as in 2011. however, member states are responsible for implementing around 80% of the union budget. so we are dealing with a fight that must be fought at national level and then at european level. in my country the situation is catastrophic, in 2012 the romanian state lost 49.3 million euros per day. and the socialist government in bucharest boasts of higher revenue to the budget in 2013, but completely ignores the fact that taxes have increased and the collection has been weaker.
in writing. - i voted for the 2012 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests combating fraud. as the scale of tax fraud and tax evasion in all its forms and the extent of corruption in the european union undermine citizens' trust in the union, parliament considers that greater guarantees are needed regarding the integrity and transparency of public spending. we regret that own resources are no longer the main source of revenue for the eu budget, accounting for 20%, which means that the correct collection of vat and customs duties has direct consequences not only for the economies of the member states and the budget of the european union, but also for european taxpayers. we are concerned that, although the number of irregularities reported in 2012 as being of a non-fraudulent nature affecting income from traditional own resources has remained unchanged, the total number is 20% higher than the average for the period 2008-2012. we invite the commission to regularly carry out a comparative analysis of the performance differences between national traditional own resources collection systems, identifying and disseminating good practices in the effectiveness of the recovery process in all member states and to propose appropriate measures where necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because the change of attitude on the part of the regime in tehran is welcome. however, we should not lose our lucidity and vigilance, because iran's attitude must be doubled by concrete facts. the openness we europeans are showing should also be conditional on irreversible progress in the current negotiations. in concrete terms, economic sanctions must be gradually lifted in line with the concessions in the nuclear dossier, and the anti-semitic rhetoric of the iranian leadership must cease. i notice that former president ahmadinejad's place has been taken by the religious leader who continues to question the holocaust. that way i don't think we'll ever reach stability in the middle east.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the eu strategy on iran. negotiations on a comprehensive trade and cooperation agreement and on an agreement for a political dialogue between the eu and iran started in 2002. the process was interrupted in 2005 following revelations of iran's clandestine nuclear activities and its refusal to cooperate fully with the international atomic energy agency (iaea). the commitments in the joint plan of action are only a first step towards a more comprehensive solution to the iranian nuclear issue and aim to reduce immediate tensions by creating a more favourable environment for a comprehensive diplomatic solution. we underline that a more constructive relationship with iran depends on progress on the implementation of iran's commitments under the joint plan of action, including on regional issues such as the civil war in syria and the fight against all forms of terrorism and its causes, but also in areas such as economic development, trade agreements, the rule of law and the promotion of human rights.
mr president, i would stress the importance of revising this directive to improve the safety and comfort of drivers, to improve their working conditions and to improve road safety. in order to improve the aerodynamic performance of vehicles or vehicle assemblies, i submit that the maximum length may be exceeded by up to 50 cm, simply by adding to the rear of the vehicles devices ensuring an improvement of their aerodynamic characteristics. i also support the introduction of a weight sensor that will contribute to road safety. i also support the interoperability of this sensor with the digital tachograph and i want to stress that the introduction of the weight sensor will improve the enforcement of the directive and reduce the destruction of road transport infrastructure. thank you. thank you.
mr president, the sustainable development of air transport requires the adoption of measures to reduce aircraft noise at airports which have particular problems in managing this major deficiency. resolution a33/7 of the international civil aviation organisation introduces the concept of a balanced approach to noise management and establishes a consistent method of its implementation. the principle is maintained and supported by the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council in january this year, facilitating not only the reduction of aircraft noise at source, but also land-use planning and management measures, operational procedures for noise abatement and operating restrictions, without prejudice to existing obligations and agreements. the measures envisaged by the new rules are, in those circumstances, balanced and in line with the principle of subsidiarity. the measure is neither radical nor destructive for the aviation industry, as it does not require the withdrawal of existing aircraft from service unless they are actually harmful, through the noise they produce, to public health and the environment. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2013. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement with ryanair was concluded before the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed. the new strategic airport noise maps must take into account the continuous increase in air traffic as well as the demographic development of the areas surrounding airports. in these circumstances, the task of local and regional authorities is not easy, because the plans involve a perspective and a view of the whole. aviation is a growing sector, it is the safest and fastest means of transport, so we cannot talk about sustainable economic development and secure jobs without foreseeing the expansion of the aviation sector with all the restrictions that are required for the safety, security and health of all european citizens.
mr president, i would stress the importance of harmonising and clarifying the common rules on noise restrictions at european union airports. i welcome the fact that local authorities will retain the power to decide on noise abatement measures at airports as well as on measures to prohibit night flights. i stress the importance of revising directive 49 of 2002 on the assessment and management of environmental noise and hope that the next commission will come up with concrete solutions to the health problems caused by noise at airports.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank both mrs paulsen and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. one of the european union's basic principles is the free movement of people and goods. however, it is important to impose high quality standards and rigorous controls on this free market in goods, including to ensure that animal diseases are controlled and thus prevent public health problems. i want to point out that about 70 percent of infectious diseases are common to both animals and humans, and that antibiotic resistance is a problem that needs to be addressed. to this end, the regulation should lay down rules for the use of veterinary medicinal products for listed diseases, but it is also necessary to take into account the restriction of the use of antibiotics to cases of strict necessity. i welcome the listing of diseases with significant impact in the annex to this regulation, but preventive measures for the monitoring and control of non-listed diseases are also essential and should be considered by the member states. i conclude by stressing that in order to facilitate the prevention, eradication and control of animal diseases, the budget for such actions needs to be more accessible.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on plant protection measures aims to strengthen the prevention, surveillance and rapid response measures in the event of outbreaks of plant pests in the union. this is a complex issue and as such we need to act and find the most appropriate solutions to act against all factors that have a negative impact on agriculture, the entire food chain and the agricultural industry with a view to eradicating outbreaks of harmful organisms. as shadow rapporteur of the socialist group in the european parliament, i believe that more emphasis should be placed on the preventive agronomic measures that farmers could take to reduce the risk of the establishment and development of pests before more drastic measures such as the use of pesticides are applied, as plant health is an essential factor for agriculture, horticulture and forestry and is also important for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services.
in writing. food safety has always played an important role in the european union. however, against the measures taken in the eu, we have seen events over the last two years that have shown the shortcomings of the current rules. last year we saw how easily horse meat could be found in food labelled as beef - a scandal that affected 16 member states - or the fraud in romania where hundreds of tonnes of expired or altered meat were put on the market. these events require restoring consumer confidence in the eu food industry, requiring the performance of official controls to strengthen the existing system and the imposition of appropriate sanctions. the adoption of this report is a step forward in ensuring consumers' right to safe and healthy food and in improving the image of food business operators.
madam president, commissioner, article 11 (2) of the treaty on european union provides that the union institutions shall maintain an open, transparent and constant dialogue with representative associations and civil society. i believe that for this dialogue to take place in a climate of transparency, a well-functioning common register of organisations and individuals seeking to influence the process of developing and implementing european union policies is necessary. i support mandatory registration for lobbying activities in the eu institutions as mentioned in parliament's resolution of 8 may 2008 and its decision of 11 may 2011. we call on the commission to present by the end of 2016 a legislative proposal to establish a mandatory register under article 352 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is important that future revisions of the transparency register be transparent, fully involve the relevant parliament committees and allow for the participation of civil society.
question by mr rubic: in 2009 a programme of approximately eur 1 billion was adopted to be implemented through the european investment bank for smes. one of the aims of this programme was precisely to create jobs for smes. i would like to know if you have considered this programme and how many jobs have been created through this programme.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to take stock of the work of the european parliament and also to thank the voters who have placed their trust in me. parliament has helped to establish rules to eliminate financial speculation, fraud, tax evasion, developed the youth guarantee, also provided technical assistance to attract european investment bank funds, enabled the reduction of roaming charges and, not least, defended individual freedoms by rejecting acta. the legislative forum also supported the european path of the republic of moldova and supported the negotiation of trade agreements with the united states and canada, recalling in this context the need to eliminate visas for romanian citizens in these two states. i hope that the new parliament and the new commission will continue to improve the european project, to defend the interests of all citizens, to combat xenophobic tendencies and, not least, to find long-term solutions to eliminate unemployment, especially among young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this european parliamentary term has been marked by the economic crisis and its social and political implications. millions of citizens have lost their jobs, and poverty and lack of prospects have fuelled extremist tendencies. in this first full mandate for the representatives of romania and bulgaria, i have endeavoured to persuade the european forums and some member states to abandon the discriminatory measures that prevent the full integration of the new acceding states. we have succeeded in removing barriers to the labour market, but we are facing a xenophobic current, which uses romanians as scapegoats for their internal problems. it is unjust and dangerous, as are the blocking of romania's accession to the schengen area, the treatment of roma and the lack of solidarity on external visas. i thank all the colleagues with whom i have collaborated in defending the european project and the fundamental freedoms of citizens, and i hope that this forum will remain a vector of european integration and the fight against all forms of discrimination.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the direct lines of financing from brussels, together with the structural funds and the agricultural funds, are important investment instruments for economic growth in the european union. unfortunately, programmes managed directly by the european commission, such as horizon 2020 or creative europe, are very little known or, in some countries, not known at all, which means that we are making plans, developing strategies for economic development at european level, adopting directives for the economic environment and combating unemployment in the european union in vain if we fail to create easy access to all the financial instruments we manage at european level. it's like we're creating cars, but we're not giving access to fuel. i therefore ask the european commission to make a broad and concrete analysis of what access to these financial instruments means and to come up with a concrete information plan for each member state and, at the same time, a plan to support these financial instruments.
political species, kleptocratic socialism, theory and practice of the new current include: challenging final judicial decisions in corruption cases, distributing public resources exclusively to the party clientele, solidarity with socialist colleagues sent to court, refusal to lift parliamentary immunity in corruption cases, keeping convicted or incompatible ministers in government, trivializing bribery, defining absolute impunity for politicians voted by a large majority, threatening substitution of the executive judiciary, directing the parliamentary majority against the president who protected the independence of prosecutors and judges, intimidating jurists investigating corruption cases. the socialist government in bucharest has trampled on the principles of good governance and threatens the rule of law in romania. i ask martin schultz, an open supporter of the romanian prime minister, to denounce kleptocratic socialism and join those who are calling for ponta's resignation.
i regret that the overall level of the future multiannual financial framework of eur 960 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 908 billion in payment appropriations at 2011 prices represents a reduction of 3,5% in commitment appropriations and 3,7% in payment appropriations compared to the 2007-2013 financial framework. this is despite the union's increased powers as a result of the lisbon treaty and the enlargement of the union to 28 member states. i draw attention to the fact that the volume of outstanding invoices at year-end has been increasing steadily since 2011, which will put considerable pressure on the payment ceilings for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. finally, i regret the reduction in the connecting europe facility's allocation to the ict sector, especially as the digital agenda is one of the flagship initiatives of the european union.
madam president, i would like to congratulate, first of all, all the rapporteurs who worked on these reports which have completed the banking union, the european regulations, also congratulate the council and the commission, commissioner barnier for the efforts made. for those who still do not believe in the european union's ability to solve the problems they face, it is appropriate to remind everyone of the truth enshrined in the schuman declaration that was the starting point of what is today the european union, namely that a united europe will not be achieved all at once, on the basis of a single plan, but through concrete achievements that will create de facto solidarity. i hope that the new legislature, the european people's party's proposal to amend the treaty on the functioning of the european union, will include all this progress in achieving a true economic and monetary union and good european economic governance.
the committee on international trade is hereby convened. - mr president, i would like to welcome the new regulation proposed by the european executive, this regulation responds to the concern expressed by the european parliament about the risks to the safety of european consumers as a result of fragmented legislation. the european commission is therefore proposing to simplify the current legislative framework on the supervision of certain categories of products entering the european market. the main objective is to restore consumer confidence in the proper functioning of the internal market by monitoring more closely products that present a risk to health and the environment. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade on this file, i proposed that the european union step up cooperation with the states that are the main exporters on the european market. i also suggested that the rapec rapid alert system should cover a wider area of products under surveillance and allow for the participation of third countries as well. last but not least, i stressed the importance of coordinated sanctions imposed by eu member states to discourage breaches of european rules by external economic operators.
mr president, the free movement of goods in the european union has brought us all immense benefits, but it is particularly important to ensure that only those products which do not present any danger to consumers can move freely. product safety rules would be completely ineffective in the absence of a strong product surveillance system to monitor compliance with those rules and to remove from the market those products which threaten the health or safety of consumers. together with mrs pietikäinen and the other colleagues, whom i would like to thank in this way, i believe we have succeeded in formulating a number of proposals to improve the text proposed by the commission. the new regulation simplifies and streamlines the market surveillance system by establishing common procedures irrespective of the category of products concerned and a clear timeline for those procedures, which will facilitate the work of national authorities and reduce the adaptation costs for economic operators. we need to maintain and strengthen the rapec system to send a clear message to those who believe that breaking the law is a legitimate means of gaining an advantage. i would like to conclude by expressing my regret that, because of the impasse in the council, we were unable to reach an agreement at first reading, thus delaying important consumer protection measures.
in writing. - i support this directive. in times of financial and budgetary constraints, it is necessary to adopt a special common regime for the resolution of banks in difficulty. we need a single regulatory mechanism at the level of all member states to ensure the effective management of banking crises and to minimise their negative consequences for the economy. we have to prevent national governments from intervening and using public funds. throughout the crisis years, european governments spent 1.5 trillion euros of taxpayers' money to support banks. these figures must be reduced. i support the introduction of a level playing field in the allocation of incentives to national authorities to rescue publicly funded banks and a transparent and fair use of the single resolution banking fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation laying down uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms in the framework of a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund and amending regulation 1093/2010. more efficient resolution mechanisms are an essential tool to avoid the damage caused by past bank failures. the single resolution mechanism (srm) will ensure a neutral approach in the management of banks in serious difficulties and will therefore enhance the stability of banks in the participating member states and prevent spill-over effects in non-participating member states, thus facilitating the functioning of the entire internal market. as agreed, the banking union will cover all euro area member states as well as those member states that are not part of the euro area but wish to join. within the banking union and in all other member states, the same single regulatory framework for prudential requirements and the same eu-wide banking resolution rules will apply. the integrity of the internal market will thus be preserved.
in writing. - in the last 15 years, many areas have been liberalised through legislation adopted at eu level. at that time, some legislative proposals were the subject of long and controversial debates and many actors were clearly opposed to liberalisation measures. in many member states, the hoped-for results of liberalisation - lower prices, choice of offers, new jobs - have not materialized. on the contrary, the implementation of the legislation has led, in many parts of europe, to the dismantling of existing structures to the detriment of consumers, to price increases, to more complex contractual conditions and to job losses. as a result of the crisis, the need for regulation and optimisation has become more pressing. general services are under significant funding pressure and are at risk of not being able to fulfil their mission of providing universal services to disadvantaged groups or of only being able to do so to a very limited extent.
in writing. - i believe that consumer awareness of their rights plays a key role in achieving a high level of consumer protection, but also a fundamental role for customer service on behalf of utility service providers. i believe that those responsible for contracts with customers should be properly trained and informed about consumer rights and should ensure that all customers have permanent access to personalised support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the consumer protection report on utilities. it is regrettable that there is no community definition of the utility service provider and that this concept is used in different senses, even by the european commission. the lack of a clear definition of utilities and the different interpretations from one member state to another create a great deal of confusion about this concept. utilities play a key role in ensuring social and territorial cohesion and the competitiveness of the european economy. it is necessary that all consumers, including the most disadvantaged, benefit from affordable and high-quality utilities throughout the european union.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on consumer protection - consumer protection in the utilities sector. some aspects of consumer fundamental rights are covered by directive 2011/83/eu and common features of utilities are set out in the relevant sectoral legislation. the consumer rights directive had to be transposed by mid-december 2013 and will apply to all contracts concluded after 13 june 2014. we stress the need for all consumers to have access to affordable, high-quality utilities throughout the eu, as these services play a key role in ensuring social and territorial cohesion, while contributing to the competitiveness of the european economy. i consider that termination of energy contracts often involves restrictive conditions and complex procedures, which makes it difficult to change supplier. we call for the acceleration and simplification of the procedures for changing suppliers. they argue that undertakings should publish information on prices, price changes and contracts in an intelligible way. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. we also call on the member states and the companies concerned to take the necessary measures to ensure that consumers have access to clear, comprehensible and comparable information on tariffs, conditions and remedies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and repealing directive 2006/87/ec. the commission proposal does not amend the technical content of the existing directive but clearly specifies the decision-making procedures in the main body of the text, while maintaining the technical specifications and administrative procedures in the annexes to the directive. the inland waterway fleet has a high level of sustainability due to its long life, but the progressive renewal or technological upgrading of ship propulsion systems would allow for a reduction in air pollutant emissions, thus providing additional environmental benefits. currently, inland waterway vessel engines are required to comply with the exhaust emission limit values set out in directive 97/68/ec (nrmm directive) unless derogations have been granted. once the revised nrmm directive provides a clear framework for the new emission values for inland waterway engines, the directive will provide the possibility to adapt the existing emission values for inland waterway engines in accordance with the procedures defined in the directive. we call on the commission to put the naiades ii programme into practice and to present concrete actions as soon as possible, taking into account the characteristics of the sector, which is largely based on smes.
in writing. - i believe that the increasing scale of fraud calls for the adoption of effective prevention and detection mechanisms at eu level, with a view to achieving concrete results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 515/97 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters. actions to combat customs infringements are an integral part of the protection of the financial interests of the union and the development of customs cooperation. customs legislation may be infringed by various practices, such as misrepresenting imported goods to take advantage of lower customs duties, misrepresenting declarations of origin to circumvent anti-dumping duties and/or to avoid import restrictive quotas or abusing the transit system, where goods actually imported are declared as being in transit in order to avoid payment of the applicable customs duties. to combat such breaches of customs legislation, a wide exchange of information is necessary in the framework of cooperation both between member states and between member states and the commission. the regulation improves customs fraud detection, investigation and prevention operations by enhancing the exchange of information and increasing the volume of evidence available, as well as by improving the functioning of the system in place, thereby increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the action concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amended proposal for a directive on the procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. the purpose of this proposal is to codify directive 98/34/ec on the procedure for the provision of information in the field of standards, technical regulations and rules on information society services. in order to promote the proper functioning of the internal market, transparency with regard to national initiatives aimed at developing technical standards or regulations should be ensured. all member states must be informed of the technical regulations envisaged by any other member state. the new directive replaces the various acts incorporated into it and retains in full the content of the acts thus codified and merely consolidates them, making only the changes in form required by the codification itself. in the interests of legal certainty, member states should publicly announce that a technical regulation has been adopted in accordance with the formalities laid down by this directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution for croatia's accession to the 1990 convention on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises. i consider that an appropriate approach to this issue is necessary as the arbitration convention sets out the legal framework for the elimination of double taxation in relation to the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises by, inter alia, establishing an arbitration procedure allowing enterprises to request a review of the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises, as well as dispute resolution mechanisms when double taxation occurs between enterprises from different member states. the convention thus strengthens the conditions for cross-border activities in the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 23 july 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises. the council decision concerns the accession of croatia to the convention 90/436/eec of 23 june 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises (the 'arbitration convention'). the arbitration convention sets out the legal framework for the elimination of double taxation in relation to the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises by, inter alia, establishing an arbitration procedure allowing enterprises to request a review of the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises and dispute settlement mechanisms when double taxation occurs between enterprises in different member states. the convention thus strengthens the conditions for cross-border activities in the internal market. the 2011 act of accession of croatia introduced a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the arbitration convention. in accordance with article 3 (4) of the act of accession, croatia accedes to the convention and all the protocols of amendment. pursuant to article 3 (5), the council is to adopt a decision to fix the date on which the arbitration convention enters into force for croatia and to make any necessary adjustments to that convention. to this end, the council shall act on a recommendation from the commission after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. - i welcome the request for further transparency included in the report on the establishment of shift2rail joint undertaking. the joint undertaking should make public the professional details of its managerial staff members, the management board members and the experts it employs. in addition, declarations of interest should be available on the joint undertakingʼs website. i call therefore on shift2rail to make the necessary arrangements. moreover, i request that the joint undertaking publishes on its website its policy on conflicts of interest, once adopted. this is the only way to offer full transparency, limit the risks of conflicts of interest and protect taxpayersʼ money invested in the research projects. i ask the commission to closely monitor the system through which the joint undertaking chooses the projects and institutions which will receive funding from the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the shift2rail joint undertaking. the shift2rail joint undertaking ((s2r) will be a public-private partnership aimed at stimulating and better coordinating union investment in research and innovation in the railway sector, while creating new employment opportunities, with a view to accelerating and facilitating the transition towards a more integrated, user-friendly, efficient, sustainable and attractive eu railway market, in line with the overall objective of achieving a single european railway area. the s2r joint undertaking will contribute to the achievement of the specific objectives set out in the 2011 white paper and the fourth railway package, such as improving the efficiency of the railway sector for the benefit of public finances, significantly expanding or upgrading the capacity of the rail network to enable rail transport to compete effectively and to take a significantly higher share of passenger and freight transport, improving the quality of rail transport services by meeting the needs of passengers and freight forwarders, removing technical barriers affecting interoperability across the sector and reducing the negative externalities of rail transport. the progress of the s2r joint undertaking towards meeting those objectives should be measured on the basis of key performance indicators.
in writing. - i voted for the motion for a resolution on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of alexander mirsky. alexander mirsky, member of the european parliament, requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the civil case pending before the civil division of the senate of the supreme court of the republic of latvia. the proceedings concerned the judgment of the civil division of the riga district court, by which alexander mirsky was ordered to withdraw a statement made at the european parliament speech of 4 april 2011 and to pay compensation for non-pecuniary damage of lvl 1[nbsp ]000 to the injured applicants. in accordance with the provisions of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of investigation, detention or prosecution in respect of opinions or votes expressed in the performance of their duties. we call on the commission to intervene with the latvian authorities to enforce eu primary law on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. - i voted to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund (gef) in favour of the over 1 000 workers made redundant in italy by vdc technologies. they note that this situation arose against the background of increased competition, in particular from china, with the italian company vdc technologies practically unable to cope with competition on the tv sets, tv monitors and displays market and on the air conditioning market. the application for funding meets the requirements of the egf, the purpose of which is to provide support for workers who are losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in the european economy, brought about by increased competition from third countries. however, they regret that the evaluation of the application took 19 months, which is contrary to the purpose and objectives of the egf and the need to come quickly to the aid of workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2012/007 it/vdc technologies. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2012/007 it/vdc technologies. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2012/007 it/vdc technologies. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2012/007 it/vdc technologies. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is to be mobilised from the european globalisation adjustment fund. eu financial assistance to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. italy submitted application egf/2012/007 it/vdc technologies for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1[nbsp ]164 redundancies within vdc technologies spa and a supplier, with 1[nbsp ]146 workers affected by the measures co-financed by the egf, during the period from 26 february 2012 to 25 june 2012. the divestments of vdc technologies spa and one of its suppliers are linked to major structural changes in international business practices due to globalisation, which have resulted in a serious disruption of economic activity in the electrical equipment manufacturing sector as a result of increased competition from third countries, in particular china. we welcome the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the new egf regulation for the period 2014-2020 to reintroduce the crisis mobilisation criterion, to increase the union financial contribution to 60% of the total estimated costs of the proposed measures, to increase the efficiency of the processing of egf applications by shortening the evaluation and approval time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2012/004 es/santana group) and i voted against the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2012/004 es/santana group) and i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2012/004 es/santana group) and i voted against the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2012/004 es/santana group) and i voted against the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2012/004) and i voted against the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2012/004) and i voted against the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2012/004) and i voted against the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2012/004) and i voted against the proposal to mobilise the egf. spain submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following 330 redundancies made by grupo santana and 15 suppliers and downstream producers, 285 workers having been affected by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period november 2011 to march 2012. these redundancies have a considerable negative impact on employment and the local economy and aggravate the already fragile economic situation in the affected region. the spanish authorities submitted the application for a financial contribution from the egf in may 2012 and regret that its evaluation was only submitted by the european commission in march 2014. we regret the long evaluation period and consider that this delay is contrary to the purpose of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide rapid assistance to workers made redundant. we welcome the fact that training courses are offered and that these will be complemented by on-the-job training activities and we also welcome the fact that the training will be tailored to the skills and qualifications needs of the companies establishing themselves in the industrial park, which is part of the measures taken in addition to the package of measures financed by the egf.
in writing. - in addition to their direct function of protecting depositors, deposit guarantee schemes are also essential for the stability of the financial system, especially in times of crisis. if the banks' customers lose confidence in their credit institutions and attempt to withdraw their deposits simultaneously, this crisis phenomenon may lead not only to the collapse of the already unstable institution, but may also spread to other credit institutions and other countries as a result of a growing and general loss of confidence. the level of liquid assets required to guarantee deposits is so high that no credit institution can keep such an amount available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on deposit guarantee schemes, as it proposes to reduce payment terms in the event of insolvency to 7 working days, which means a reduction to less than half under the current provisions. i believe that the principle of risk-based contributions will increase depositors' confidence and strengthen financial stability by discouraging institutions from taking too much risk. depositors must be given clear information about the account opened and the deposit guarantee schemes available so that disadvantaged persons are not put at risk should the institution become insolvent.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting a directive on deposit guarantee schemes, which approves the council's first reading position. parliament adopted its position at first reading in plenary on 16 february 2012. after three rounds of trilogue negotiations, the negotiating team of the parliament and the council reached an agreement on this file on 17 december 2013. following the legal and linguistic review, the council adopted its position at first reading on 3 march 2014, thus confirming the agreement of 17 december 2013. the compromise thus lays down for the first time eu-wide rules on the financing of deposit guarantee schemes. member states shall ensure that credit institutions affiliated to deposit guarantee schemes establish a deposit guarantee fund, which shall amount to at least 0,8% of the deposits covered by the scheme within 10 years. the payment deadlines in the event of insolvency are also reduced from 20 working days under the current provisions to 7 working days. member states will have the possibility to introduce a transitional period until the end of 2023.
in writing. - i believe that a new union strategy on alternative fuels should be implemented without prejudice to national and union efforts to influence travellers' behaviour and promote a modal shift towards more sustainable modes of transport and efficient logistics solutions, particularly in urban areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on alternative fuels infrastructure because a union strategy on alternative fuels should be implemented without prejudice to national efforts and without influencing travellers' behaviour. in addition to alignment with the regime of delegated and implementing acts, the essential purpose of this proposal is to introduce a legal basis for future grants, in the form of lump sums and without call for proposals, for the benefit of national statistical institutes. a strategic approach is needed to meet the long-term energy needs of all modes of transport. in particular, policies should be based on a broad mix of alternative fuels, with a focus on the specific needs of each mode of transport. the needs of transport modes with limited alternatives should be properly integrated into national policy frameworks. i welcome this initiative and hope that both at the european union level and at the level of romania, this directive will ensure a favourable environment for the development of alternative fuels.
in writing. - i voted for the directive on the installation of alternative fuels infrastructure. this directive establishes a common framework of measures for the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure in the union with the aim of minimising the dependence of transport on oil and mitigating its impact on the environment. this directive lays down minimum requirements for the establishment of alternative fuels infrastructure to be implemented through member states' national policy frameworks, including common technical specifications for recharging points for electric vehicles and for refuelling points for natural gas (lng and cng) and hydrogen, as well as requirements for user information. in order to develop alternative fuels infrastructure and promote alternative fuels, national policy frameworks may be composed of several plans, strategies or other planning documentation developed separately or integrated, or in another form, including at administrative level, as decided by member states. the development and implementation of member states' national policy frameworks should be facilitated by the commission through the exchange of information and good practices between member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive amending directive 96/53/ec of 25 july 1996 laying down for certain road vehicles circulating within the community the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weight in international traffic. this directive aims to improve road safety and working conditions for drivers in the field of international freight transport. i have supported all the amendments which provide for increased ergonomics of the cab and space available to the driver. i think it is important that the flaps that help improve the aerodynamics of a truck can also be automatically manipulated by the driver. they also support the mandatory introduction of the weight sensor and its interoperability with the new generation digital tachograph. the weight sensor can contribute both to the protection of transport infrastructure and to the compliance with social legislation in the field of transport. therefore, i believe that the use of the weight sensor should be mandatory and not voluntary. as regards the use of 'mega-trucks' in cross-border situations, i consider that the current legislation is clear and sufficient and the tran committee has repeatedly criticised the various misinterpretations of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and amending directives 77/91/eec, 82/891/ec, 2001/24/ec, 2002/47/ec, 2004/25/ec, 2005/56/ec, 2007/36/ec and 2011/35/ec and regulation (eu) no 1093/2010. the financial crisis has demonstrated that there is a significant lack of appropriate tools at union level to effectively manage the situation of credit institutions and investment firms that are not viable or are in difficulty. those instruments are necessary in particular to prevent insolvency or, if insolvency occurs, to minimise the negative consequences by maintaining the systemically important functions of the institution concerned. during the crisis, these challenges were a major factor forcing member states to bail out institutions using taxpayers' money. the objective of a credible recovery and resolution framework is to avoid as far as possible the need for such a measure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend directive 2009/65/ec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) as regards depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions. directive 2009/65/ec should be amended to take account of market developments and the experience gained so far by market participants and supervisory bodies, in particular to address discrepancies between the provisions of national law concerning the obligations and liability of depositaries, the remuneration policy and penalties. in order to counter the potential negative impact of poorly designed remuneration structures on the sound management of risks and the control of risk-taking behaviour by individuals, there should be an explicit obligation for collective investment undertakings (ucits) management companies to establish and maintain, for the categories of staff whose professional activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the ucits they manage, remuneration policies and practices compatible with sound and effective risk management. those policies and practices should apply proportionately to any third party that takes investment decisions that affect the risk profile of ucits.
in writing. - i voted for this european directive because it requires the financial systems of the member states to ensure that people with low incomes or in poverty can open bank accounts. many banks now charge fees for maintaining bank accounts that are prohibitive for low-income or poor individuals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the comparability of payment account fees, switching of payment accounts and access to payment accounts with basic functionalities. the smooth functioning of the internal market and the development of a modern, socially inclusive economy increasingly depend on the universal provision of payment services. i support this directive which provides for rules on the transparency and comparability of fees charged to consumers for payment accounts held by them in the union, rules on switching payment accounts within a member state and on facilitating the cross-border opening of accounts by consumers. this directive also defines a framework of rules and conditions under which member states guarantee the right of consumers to open and use payment accounts with basic features in the union. in order to facilitate effective and smooth financial mobility in the long term, it is essential to establish a uniform set of rules addressing the issue of low customer mobility and, in particular, to increase the comparability of services and fees related to payment accounts and to motivate switching payment accounts, and to avoid discrimination on grounds of residence of consumers intending to purchase a cross-border payment account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on key information documents relating to investment products. the range of different types of insurance-based retail investment products (priips) available to retail investors when they intend to make an investment is increasing. improving the transparency provisions of priips offered to retail investors is an important measure to protect investors and a prerequisite for restoring their confidence in the financial market, in particular in the context of the consequences of the financial crisis. the regulation adopted at first reading provides for uniform rules on the format and content of the key information document to be drawn up by manufacturers of packaged retail insurance-based investment products and uniform rules on the making available of that document to retail investors. the aim is to provide retail investors with the opportunity to understand and compare the key features and risks of the priip.
in writing. - i voted to amend the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union by increasing the number of judges in the general court. as a result of the progressive extension of its powers since its establishment, the court of first instance is now seised of a steadily increasing number of cases. the number of cases brought before the general court has been increasing steadily over the years, which in the long run has the effect of increasing the number of cases before it and lengthening the duration of proceedings. in accordance with article 19 (2) of the treaty on european union, the court of first instance shall have at least one judge per member state. since this arrangement already ensures a geographical balance and a representation of the respective national legal systems, additional judges should be appointed solely on the basis of their professional and personal merits, taking into account their knowledge of the legal systems of the european union and of the member states. however, there should be no more than two judges per member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision on the implementation of the interoperable eu-wide ecall system. ecall will be based on the installation of type-approved equipment for the single european emergency number 112, starting with certain vehicle categories, on all vehicles, and on a framework for the management of ecalls in telecommunications networks and in emergency call centres (psap). according to the commission, an ecall to 112 can reduce the time needed for emergency response by 40% in urban areas and by 50% in rural areas (with a net gain of around 10 minutes), thus saving lives and reducing the severity of personal injuries. the decision is addressed to the member states and addresses the infrastructure side of the psaps of the commission's ecall strategy, based on a triple regulatory approach covering the in-vehicle system, telecommunications networks and emergency call centres. member states shall implement the psap infrastructure necessary for the proper reception and management of all ecalls from their territory by 1 october 2015 at the latest. it is obviously necessary that the location of the caller for 112 calls be precise and reliable.
in writing. - while i welcome the adoption of the deployment of ecall for a better safety for our citizens, i deeply deplore that my amendment requiring an extension of the caller location obligation to mobile terminals has not been accepted by the council. ecall will represent only 1.7% of the annual number of emergency calls in the eu. the technology is available to cover the other 90% of emergency calls (290 million) originated from mobile terminals. i believe that all citizens, and not only car drivers equipped with ecall technology, should benefit from the already widely deployed gnss location technologies. we need to ensure our citizens an equal right to emergency services for all, not only for drivers or car users. at least eur[nbsp ]4 billion could be saved annually if accurate caller location information targets were to be deployed. the european parliament has strongly supported and called for caller location for years. i hope the next commission will show determination in its next mandate, in order to avoid more dramatic accidents like the one in romania where people who survived a plane crash died for not having been attended earlier on time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks, because the digital economy is bringing profound changes to the single market. due to its innovative nature, speed and cross-border dimension, it has the potential to bring single market integration to a new level. the union aims at a digital economy that produces sustainable economic and social benefits, based on modern online services and fast internet connections. a high-quality digital infrastructure underpins virtually all sectors of a modern and innovative economy and is of strategic importance for social and territorial cohesion. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. i believe that a proper approach to the problem of reducing the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks is needed as a large part of these costs can be attributed to inefficiencies in the expansion process related to the use of existing passive infrastructure, bottlenecks related to the coordination of civil works and on the installation of networks inside buildings, cumbersome administrative procedures for granting permits, significant financial obstacles and the absence of feasible business plans for the installation of broadband in rural areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks. the regulation proposes to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed and ultra-fast electronic communications networks by providing tools for cost-effective deployment of new physical infrastructure, by reducing administrative burdens, by sharing existing infrastructure and by harmonising civil works. the regulation proposes to maximise synergies between networks, addressing not only providers of electronic communications networks but any owner of physical infrastructure suitable for hosting elements of electronic communications networks such as electricity, gas, water and sewerage, heating and transport services. access to civil infrastructure facilitates the expansion of high-speed broadband networks by any operator. the development of ict services, both in the public and private sectors, should be used as a means of improving public services such as healthcare, state education and culture, public safety, social services, and can revitalize the economic activity of smes and stimulate their development. particular attention should be paid to encouraging private investment in rural and remote areas, thus ensuring convenient access to broadband services also in areas where the market fails to provide it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on a community fleet capacity policy to promote inland waterway transport. regulation (ec) no 718/1999 lays down measures to support structural improvements in the waterway sector, in particular as regards the capacity of the fleet of member states with inland waterways linked to those of another member state. reserve funds were thus set up, financed by the inland waterway transport sector from the surplus of funds from the structural improvement programmes administered until 28 april 1999 and from the special contributions received under the 'old for new' rule. over the years, the funds have grown to a current cumulative value of approximately eur 35 million. the inland waterway sector and the member states tried to use the funds, but the commission considered that the applications did not fall within the scope of the regulation. welcomes the extension of the scope of the current regulation so that the reserve funds can be used to support the inland waterway sector more effectively and to create a favourable environment for innovation and increased safety and environmental performance. i regret that the logistics of intermodal freight transport are not mentioned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on information measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries. under council regulation (ec) no 3/2008, the union may carry out information and promotion actions on the internal market and in third countries for agricultural products and their production methods, and for foodstuffs based on agricultural products. the objective of these actions is to increase the competitiveness of european agriculture, to contribute to the manufacture of more profitable products, to create greater competitive equity both on the internal market and in third countries and to increase consumer awareness of the qualities of agricultural products and foodstuffs based on union agricultural products, as well as by developing and opening up new markets. those actions shall complement and usefully reinforce the actions of the member states, while ensuring equal access for all member states at all times and promoting positive discrimination in favour of the outermost regions in accordance with article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the union in the research and development programme on assisted living arrangements jointly undertaken by several member states. i believe that the european union needs to take urgent action to address the challenges of an ageing population. the european horizon 2020 programme can provide concrete solutions in this regard, including funding activities related to active ageing, independent living and assistance for autonomy. i give you as an example the solutions provided by information and communication technologies (icts), which can substantially improve the quality of life of the elderly. in addition, taking into account the long-term budgetary pressures associated with an ageing population, at the budgetary level, ict solutions also allow for the efficiency of social welfare systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the participation of the union in the research and development programme on assisted active driving (aaa) jointly undertaken by several member states. the research and innovation activities carried out under the aaa programme should be fully in line with the general principles of horizon 2020, in particular with regard to gender equality, open access and ethical principles. research and innovation activities should also comply with ethical principles and relevant national, international and union legislation, including the charter of fundamental rights of the eu and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and its additional protocols. particular attention should be paid to the principle of proportionality, the right to privacy, the right to the protection of personal data, the right to the physical and mental integrity of the person, the right to non-discrimination and the need to ensure high levels of protection of human health. in line with the objective of sme participation in indirect actions of horizon 2020, the aaa programme should aim to allocate 20% of its budget allocated to indirect actions to smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the european union in a research and development programme jointly undertaken by several member states to support small and medium-sized enterprises carrying out research activities. i welcome the european commission's proposal to continue the european union's participation in the eurostars 2 programme, which promotes market-oriented research activities by smes. the experience of the predecessor programme has shown that it responds to the real needs of r&d performing smes, which is evidence that the number of eligible projects exceeded the budget originally allocated. however, i believe that we need more transparency in procedures and a reduction in bureaucracy, in particular reducing the time from evaluation to signing of contracts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the union in a research and development programme jointly undertaken by several member states to support small and medium-sized enterprises carrying out research activities. the adopted decision lays down the rules and conditions for the participation of the union in the second research and development programme jointly undertaken by several member states to support small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) carrying out research and development activities (eurostars-2). the union shall participate in eurostars-2, which is jointly conducted by austria, belgium, bulgaria, cyprus, croatia, denmark, estonia, switzerland, finland, france, germany, greece, ireland, iceland, israel, italy, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, malta, norway, poland, portugal, the united kingdom, the czech republic, romania, slovakia, slovenia, spain, sweden, turkey, the netherlands and hungary, in accordance with the conditions laid down in this decision. the union's financial contribution to eurostars-2 is up to eur 287000000. the union financial contribution shall be paid from the appropriations in the general budget of the union allocated to the relevant parts of the specific programme implementing horizon 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the union in a european programme for innovation and research in the field of metrology jointly undertaken by several member states. the union shall participate in the european programme for metrology innovation and research (empir) jointly conducted by austria, belgium, bosnia and herzegovina, bulgaria, croatia, denmark, switzerland, estonia, finland, france, germany, greece, ireland, italy, norway, poland, portugal, the united kingdom, the czech republic, romania, serbia, slovakia, slovenia, spain, sweden, turkey, the netherlands and hungary, in accordance with the conditions laid down in this decision. the union's financial contribution to empir shall be up to eur 300[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000[nbsp]. the union financial contribution shall be paid from the appropriations in the general budget of the union allocated to the relevant parts of the specific programme implementing horizon 2020, established by decision 2013/743/eu, in accordance with article 58 (1) (c) (vi) and articles 60 and 61 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012, and in particular part ii 'leadership in the industrial sector' and part iii 'society-wide challenges'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the participation of the union in a second eu-developing countries partnership programme on clinical trials, jointly conducted by several member states. the union is a major funder of research in poverty-related diseases and neglected infectious diseases. the commission and the member states contribute to around a quarter (22%) of government investment in this area worldwide. the union is also a particularly important player in global health. the commission and the member states provide around half of the global fund to fight hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. supporting the fight against poverty-related diseases would also help to protect union citizens against these diseases, as increasing global mobility (including tourism), migratory movements and changes in the geographical distribution of these diseases mean that europe could face new or recurring challenges from these diseases. unfortunately, only 10 percent of the world's research funding goes to diseases that account for 90 percent of the world's diseases. it is essential that the acquisition of informed consent for clinical trials conducted in developing countries should always be on a voluntary basis and following adequate information.
in writing. - currently, both consumers and businesses, especially smes, face difficulties when trying to recover amounts of money across borders. i consider it unacceptable that some debtors can avoid paying debts just because they are not resident in the same country as the creditor or simply by moving their money to another account. the european account preservation order will facilitate cross-border debt recovery, which will help to increase consumer and business confidence in cross-border trade. the new instrument will be pragmatic, effective and easy to apply for when the circumstances of the dispute warrant it, while ensuring a balance between the rights of the parties to the dispute. in this respect, i am pleased that we were able to obtain the maintenance of the ex parte procedure and, at the same time, to ensure the precise identification of the bank account concerned. another important aspect in my view is the enforceability of the order issued, which will increase the chances of recovering the debt. i do think that the system for obtaining information on the debtor's bank account could have been simpler, without requiring an enforceable court order, but overall i think this instrument will bring benefits to europeans.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (eu) no 1215/2012 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is ensured. in order to progressively establish such an area, the union shall, inter alia, adopt measures on judicial cooperation in civil matters with cross-border implications, in particular where they are necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. this regulation establishes a union procedure concerning a protection measure allowing a creditor to obtain a european account preservation order to prevent the withdrawal or transfer of funds held by the debtor in a bank account within the union. the preservation order shall be available to the creditor as an alternative to existing protection measures under the national law of the member states. this regulation shall apply to claims in civil and commercial matters having cross-border implications as defined in article 3, irrespective of the nature of the court seised. in particular, it does not apply to tax, customs or administrative matters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive amending council directives 78/660/eec and 83/349/eec as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by certain large companies and groups. in order to enhance the consistency and comparability of non-financial information disclosed across the union, it is necessary for certain large undertakings to draw up a non-financial statement containing information on at least environmental, social and human resources aspects, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption and bribery. such a statement should include a description of the policies, results and risks related to those aspects and should be integrated into the management report of the undertaking concerned. the non-financial statement should also include information on the undertaking's due diligence policies and, where relevant and proportionate, its supply and subcontracting chains, in order to identify, prevent and mitigate existing and potential adverse impacts. member states should be able to exempt undertakings subject to this directive from the obligation to draw up a non-financial statement in cases where they present a separate report corresponding to the same financial year and with content covering the same subjects.
in writing. - i voted for the new directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the context of a transfer within the same company because it is necessary to regulate labour migration from non-eu countries. however, i believe that the use of non-eu labour should not be to the disadvantage of european citizens. european legislation must be clear: third-country nationals can only be called upon for certain jobs if there are no european workers to fill them. workers from third countries are a factor of development and growth for the european union. as a result, the european commission has proposed several directives over the past seven years to facilitate employment contracts for highly skilled workers, seasonal workers, paid trainees and workers transferred within the same company. i reiterate the need to include the principle of community preference in the labour migration directives. i am pleased that this principle is also reflected in the directive voted today, the latest in a series of regulations on legal migration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the context of a transfer within the same company. i voted for amendment 6, which states that, whatever the law applicable to the employment relationship, persons transferred within the same undertaking are entitled to equal treatment with nationals of the host member state as regards: the terms and conditions of employment as laid down in the laws, regulations and administrative provisions and/or in arbitral awards and collective agreements applicable to the place of employment in the member state in which they are currently employed; the freedom of association, affiliation and participation in a workers' or employers' representative organisation or any organisation whose members are engaged in a specific occupation, including the benefits and rights conferred by such organisations, without prejudice to the provisions of national law on public policy and the recognition of public security; the award of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications, as laid down in article 3 (3) of regulation (ec) no 883/2004, without prejudice to the existing national procedures for the award of diplomas and certificates, as laid down in article 3 (3) of regulation (ec) no 648/2004.
in writing. - i welcome the request for further transparency included in the report on the clean sky 2 joint undertaking. however, i would have gone further. the joint undertaking should make public the professional details of its managerial staff members, the management board members and the experts it employs. in addition, declarations of interest should be available on the joint undertakingʼs website. i call therefore on clean sky 2 to remedy the situation as a matter of urgency. moreover, i request that the joint undertaking publishes on its website its policy on conflicts of interest. this is the only way to offer full transparency, limit the risks of conflicts of interest and protect taxpayersʼ money invested in research projects. i ask the commission to closely monitor the system through which the joint undertaking chooses the projects and institutions which will receive funding from the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the clean sky 2 joint undertaking. the commission has followed up many of the recommendations made in the first interim evaluation of the clean sky joint undertaking, in particular with regard to: - significant leverage in terms of private funding and commitment by the sector to additional activities; - improvement of the governance structure of the joint undertaking; - increased openness of the public-private partnership through competitive tendering. we believe that funding for the horizon 2020 transport challenge should be increased in view of the huge budgetary constraints it will probably face when it has to finance not only clean sky 2, but also sesar and shift2rail. the states representatives group and the scientific committee should be empowered to fulfil their role as advisory bodies in addition to the joint undertaking. they should meet at least twice a year and their representatives should have the right to attend and speak at meetings of the governing board. at the same time, openness and transparency should not be limited to the internal functioning and governance procedures of the joint undertaking.
in writing. - i welcome the request for further transparency included in the report on the bio-based industries joint undertaking. the joint undertaking should make public the professional details of its managerial staff members, the management board members and the experts it employs. in addition, declarations of interest should be available on the joint undertakingʼs website. i call therefore on bio-based industries to make the necessary arrangements. moreover, i request that the joint undertaking publishes on its website its policy on conflicts of interest, once adopted. this is the only way to offer full transparency, limit the risks of conflicts of interest and protect taxpayersʼ money invested in the research projects. i ask the commission to closely monitor the system through which the joint undertaking chooses the projects and institutions which will receive funding from the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on the bio-industries joint venture. in order to implement the joint technology initiative for bioeconomy, a joint undertaking within the meaning of article 187 of the treaty ('the bbi joint undertaking') is hereby established until 31 december 2024. in order to take into account the duration of horizon 2020, calls for proposals under the bbi should be launched by 31 december 2020 at the latest. in duly justified cases, calls for proposals may be launched until 31 december 2021. the bbi joint undertaking shall have legal personality. in each of the member states, it shall enjoy the most extensive legal capacity accorded to legal persons under the laws of those states. the maximum contribution from the union to the bbi joint undertaking shall be eur 975 million and shall cover administrative and operational expenditure. the contribution shall be paid from the appropriations entered in the general budget of the union allocated to the specific programme implementing horizon 2020 in accordance with the relevant provisions of article 58 (1) (c) (iv) and articles 60 and 61 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 for the bodies referred to in article 209 of that regulation.
in writing. - i welcome the request for further transparency included in the report on the extension of the sesar joint undertaking until 2024. however, in my view there are still shortcomings. the joint undertaking should make public the professional details of its managerial staff members, the management board members and the experts it employs. in addition, contact details and declarations of interest should be available on the joint undertakingʼs website. i call therefore on sesar to remedy the situation as a matter of urgency. this is the only way to offer full transparency, limit the risks of conflicts of interest and protect taxpayersʼ money invested in the research projects. i ask the commission to closely monitor the system through which the joint undertaking chooses the projects and institutions which will receive funding from the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a joint undertaking for the development of the next generation european air traffic management system (sesar), as regards the extension of the joint undertaking until 2024. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 02 01) and the european schools for the period 2014-2020. i believe that sesar should benefit from a rigorous conflict of interest policy, requiring parties to declare the absence or presence of such conflicts of interest and defining a procedure to address them, given that declarations of interest are often made but not acted upon. as a measure for the implementation of horizon 2020, it is clear that sesar needs to respect the research and innovation priorities of horizon 2020 as set out in the smart, green and integrated transport challenge. the sesar joint undertaking will be implemented in accordance with the rules for participation in horizon 2020 without derogations: the discharge procedure remaining unchanged pursuant to article 208 of the financial regulation and the budget adjusted to the outcome of the horizon 2020 mff.
in writing. - i welcome the request for further transparency included in the report on the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking. however, i would request more. the joint undertaking should make public the professional details of its managerial staff members, the management board members and the experts it employs. in addition, contact details and declarations of interest should be available on the joint undertakingʼs website. i call therefore on innovative medicines initiative 2 to remedy the situation as a matter of urgency. this is the only way to offer full transparency, limit the risks of conflicts of interest and protect taxpayersʼ money invested in the research projects. i ask the commission to closely monitor the system through which the joint undertaking chooses the projects and institutions which will receive funding from the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the joint undertaking for the innovative medicines initiative 2. the imi2 joint undertaking shall be established for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines until 31 december 2024. in order to take into account the duration of horizon 2020, calls for proposals under imi2 should be launched by 31 december 2020 at the latest. in duly justified cases, calls for proposals may be launched until 31 december 2021. the imi2 joint undertaking shall replace and succeed the imi joint undertaking and shall constitute a body entrusted with the implementation of a public-private partnership. the transition from the imi joint undertaking to the imi2 joint undertaking should be aligned and synchronised with the transition from the seventh framework programme to horizon 2020 in order to ensure the optimal use of the funds available for research. the imi2 joint undertaking shall be established in brussels, belgium. the imi2 joint undertaking should provide ongoing support to the research programme on innovative medicines.
in writing. - i welcome the request for further transparency included in the report on the ecsel joint undertaking. the joint undertaking should make public the professional details of its managerial staff members, the management board members and the experts it employs. in addition, declarations of interest should be available on the joint undertakingʼs website. i call therefore on ecsel to make the necessary arrangements. moreover, once adopted, the joint undertakingʼs policy on conflicts of interest should be published on its website. this is the only way to offer full transparency, limit the risks of conflicts of interest and protect taxpayersʼ money invested in the research projects. i ask the commission to closely monitor the system through which the joint undertaking chooses the projects and institutions which will receive funding from the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint undertaking. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. in order to take into account the duration of horizon 2020, calls for proposals under the ecsel joint undertaking should be launched by 31 december 2020 at the latest. in duly justified cases, calls for proposals may be launched until 31 december 2021. the ecsel joint undertaking shall replace and succeed the eniac and artemis joint undertakings. the ecsel joint undertaking is a body responsible for the implementation of a public-private partnership, with legal personality, and is based in brussels, belgium.
in writing. - i welcome the request for further transparency included in the report on the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking. there are still steps to be taken. the joint undertaking should make public the professional details of its managerial staff members, the management board members and the experts it employs. in addition, declarations of interest should be available on the joint undertakingʼs website. i urge therefore fuel cells and hydrogen 2 to urgently address and correct the situation. moreover, i request that the joint undertaking publishes its policy on conflicts of interest on its website. this is the only way to offer full transparency, limit the risks of conflicts of interest and protect taxpayersʼ money invested in the research projects. i ask the commission to closely monitor the system through which the joint undertaking chooses the projects and institutions which will receive funding from the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on the joint undertaking 'fuel cable and hydrogen 2'. for the purpose of implementing the fuel cells and hydrogen joint technology initiative, a joint undertaking within the meaning of article 187 of the treaty (the 'fch[nbsp ]2 joint undertaking') is hereby established until 31 december 2024. in order to take into account the duration of horizon 2020, calls for proposals under the fch joint undertaking2 should be launched by 31 december 2020 at the latest. in duly justified cases, calls for proposals may be launched until 31 december 2021. the fch[nbsp ]2 joint undertaking shall replace and succeed the fch joint undertaking established by council regulation (ec) no 521/2008. the maximum amount of the union contribution to the fch[nbsp ]2 joint undertaking to cover administrative and operational costs shall be eur 665 million, composed of up to eur 570 million of the contributions committed in accordance with article 4 (1) and up to eur 95 million of any additional contribution committed above the minimum threshold set out in article 4 (1).
in writing. - when the transparency register was established in june 2011, our aim was to ensure greater transparency in the way lobbyists interact with the members of parliament and eu officials. despite the repeated requests of the european parliament the register has still not been made mandatory. this is a failure that needs to be addressed as soon as possible. in october 2013, the transparency register contained 5[nbsp ]952 registrations, out of which 62% were non-compliant when checked for their quality. moreover, a majority of law firms are not yet registered. in autumn 2013, only 31% of the european citizens trusted in the european union. trust and transparency go hand in hand. therefore i welcome the fact that the report on the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register calls for a mandatory register and supports full disclosure of the activity of lobbying companies. in the meantime, i strongly support the introduction of incentive measures by the end of 2014 for organisations and individuals willing to participate in the transparency register.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision to amend the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register. unregulated and non-transparent lobbying activities pose a threat to policy-making and the public interest. we voted for amendment 6, whereby we welcome the bureau's intention to introduce a significant number of incentives to increase participation in the transparency register and call for swift action and implementation of the incentives before the end of 2014. i also voted for amendment 2, which calls on the bureau to create a publicly available online register where all documents containing amendments or directly related to legislation that have been sent to members or to parliament staff by interest group representatives are published.
in writing. - to promote high-level consultation with the eu social partners on the comprehensive strategy set by the lisbon european council of 23 and 24 march 2000, the union established a tripartite social summit for development and employment, which is now recognised in article 152 tfeu as an integral component of the social dialogue at eu level. the union and the member states have committed to cooperate within the framework of an integrated strategy designed to boost the eu's potential for growth and job creation over the decade 2010-2020, namely the europe 2020 strategy. it aims at greater coordination between national and european policies. the union recognises the need to enhance the social partners' ownership of and participation in the europe 2020 strategy in order to enable the social partners to actively contribute to the implementation of the objectives of the strategy.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the proposal for a council decision on a tripartite social summit for development and employment, requesting the council to take account of the amendments proposed by the european parliament. i voted for amendment 1. according to it, the summit is composed of representatives at the highest level of the president of the european council, the presidency of the council and the two successive presidencies, the president of the european parliament, the commission and the social partners. the ministers for employment and social affairs of the three presidencies, the commissioner responsible for employment and social affairs and the chair of the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs also participate. depending on the agenda of the meeting, other ministers from the three presidencies and other commissioners may be invited to attend.
in writing. - i would like to draw your attention to the way the negotiations for the 2014-2020 eu budget are going. even though it is co-legislator with the council, in practice parliament has very easily caved in to budgetary cuts. of course, we all understood that the member states were hit by the crisis and that national budgets suffered from austerity. but we forget that the eu budget is first and foremost an investment! looking at the multitude of funding opportunities from european funds is enough to convince us that the eu budget can provide concrete solutions to the crisis. in many member states, structural funds have replaced public investment. these, together with the direct financing lines from brussels, provided a breathing space for public institutions, but especially for smes, which benefited both from grants and from tenders organised as part of projects financed by european funds. remember that smes are the backbone of the european economy, being the largest employers and job creators in the eu. i hope that the next parliament will take these into account and not give in so easily in the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the negotiations on the cfm 2014-2020: lessons learned and perspectives. they argue that the eu budget is an important common policy tool for overcoming the current economic and social crisis. i believe that the european budget is first and foremost an investment budget, providing a single framework for coordinating and stepping up national efforts to boost growth, competitiveness and job creation across the eu. we regret that the overall level of the future multiannual financial framework of eur 960[nbsp ] billion in commitment appropriations and eur 908 billion in payment appropriations at 2011 prices represents a reduction of 3,5% in commitment appropriations and 3,7% in payment appropriations compared to the 2007-2013 financial framework, despite the increased competences of the eu as a result of the treaty of lisbon and the enlargement of the union to 28 member states.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for this very good result achieved after a long time. it is a fact that in the european union public pension systems, that is, those in which those who are currently working pay contributions to a pension fund from which the pension of those who are old is paid, are becoming increasingly unsustainable as the share of the elderly increases and the share of the active population decreases. therefore, in many member states, supplementary occupational pension schemes are increasingly being introduced, whereby persons participating in such schemes constitute their own pension fund. i shall vote for this directive because it comes to specify much better and guarantee the rights of people who work in different member states, move from one to another, as well as the obligations of those who manage these supplementary pension funds. i believe that this directive strengthens the right of european citizens to free movement and i would like to point out that in my country, romania, some 3 million romanian citizens work in other member states of the european union and will benefit from this directive.
in writing. the proposal for a directive brings a significant improvement by providing greater protection for posted workers. considers it important to have a clear and closed list of criteria to avoid different application of these criteria by member states, a clear list of administrative and control measures to be used by control bodies in a member state when checking a company that posts workers, and a common set of clear rules that benefit companies by providing them with a stable legal framework and preventing the authorities of a member state from imposing arbitrary measures. the addition of new administrative and control measures by a member state will only be possible under strict conditions, with the european commission, member states and service providers informed. we need to combat abuses against posted workers by establishing a system of individual and collective liability, generally on a voluntary basis, and a mandatory system in the field of construction, as well as effective and proportionate sanctions against the contractor where workers have difficulty in obtaining their rights. also, a very important thing to consider is the cross-border enforcement of fines which allows the recovery of fines in the home state of the posting company.
the effectiveness of the directive on the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects, which has been in force since 1993, has left a legacy to be desired, according to experts, and the current revision is therefore certainly justified. the extension of the scope of the directive, the application of the return procedure to all cultural objects considered to be national treasures is a welcome step, since the extreme diversity of similar objects makes it pointless to maintain the annex to the directive. the extension of the time limits for enforcement and initiation of the return procedure also serves to increase the number of goods returned. the most important revision proposal, however, is to place the burden of proof on the owner. as a result, the owners of the objects will have to prove that they have exercised due care and have done everything possible to ensure that the objects are of legal origin. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's return policy, which aims to improve the quality of return procedures and to improve the efficiency of judicial procedures. this effectively restores the obligation of member states to inform each other of return. it is important to note that, in the absence of a commonly agreed definition of national treasures, i believe that member states are free and unrestricted to decide what they consider to be national treasures. there is no need to regulate this issue any further. i support the rapporteur's proposal to continue to have a monitoring committee to monitor the implementation of the directive, as this will guarantee the effectiveness of the current revision of the document.
in writing. the regulation on the surveillance of the external maritime borders proposes new rules that will contribute to a more effective surveillance of our external borders and to the fight against all forms of cross-border crime. the new regulation will require member states to fulfil their obligation to provide assistance to people and vessels in distress at the eu's external border. the regulation sets out a clear obligation for participating units to engage in life saving and to cope with search and rescue situations in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by frontex. this new legislation is a step forward in addressing the problems that arise at the eu's external borders, in particular with regard to the assistance to be provided to those who are intercepted or rescued in the maritime border area. through this regulation, the eu regulates and provides the necessary guarantees for unaccompanied minors, vulnerable persons and those in need of international protection who are victims of trafficking.
in writing. the 1919-1923 treaty of trianon, which ended the first phase of the great war with 15 million casualties, anticipated the second wave of world warfare in the last century by adopting the plans of the paris peace conference in unaltered form. their failure was partly due to the general fatigue and weariness of several years of work, and partly to the efforts of the allies - incomprehensible to me - to carry out the ambitions of the peoples of the austro-hungarian monarchy seemingly without any consideration, while it was always the responsibility of the victors to create a lasting peace. despite all this, it is still often the majority who have a one-sided view of multiculturalism, multilingualism, human and minority rights. of the countries concerned, hungary and the hungarian community suffered the greatest loss: according to the peace treaty, every third hungarian-speaking person became a citizen of a foreign country, even though he did not leave his native land. i am convinced that history can provide the european union with the means to deal with the consequences that are still being felt today, including by recognising the rights of minorities and ensuring their autonomy.
in writing. this year marks 100 years since the start of the first world war, in which more than 10 million people died. world war ii also claimed more than 70 million lives, many of them civilians. in both wars, technological progress and new technical discoveries were used for destructive purposes. the schuman declaration of 9 may 1950 paved the way to a united europe, since 'the contribution to civilization which an organised and active europe can make is indispensable to the maintenance of peaceful relations. robert schuman stressed that 'the pooling of coal and steel production will immediately ensure the establishment of common bases for economic development, a first step towards the realisation of a european federation and will change the destiny of those regions which in the past were dedicated to the manufacture of munitions of war but which have been, at the same time, the most constant victims of conflicts'. today, more than ever, we need to learn from the lessons of the past and look to the future. the eu needs all its energy, creativity, resources and diplomacy to ensure the well-being and development of its members and to contribute to world peace. united in diversity, the peoples of europe must use technological progress and scientific discoveries only in the service of peace and social progress.
mr president, first we have to make up our minds: do we want war or do we want peace? if we want war we must prepare for war; if we want peace we must prepare for war too. secondly, a war could be fought with economic weapons. if we choose to use those weapons we must calculate in advance their precise effectiveness, making sure that they will not backfire. so far the therapy of gradual and personalised sanctions has been unconvincing. thirdly, if we cannot beat them let us join them. in other words, let us negotiate. the true problem is not ukraine but the lack of multilateral strategic dialogue on a global scale. global order could only be consensual. we do not like russiaʼs views on it but we cannot achieve it without russia. fourthly, since the peace of westphalia every major war in europe has ended with a peace conference and a peace treaty. this was the case in 1815, 1856, 1878, 1920 and 1946. the cold war ended without a peace treaty. we assumed that everything was clear and settled. this was not the case; now is the time to do it. tomorrow’s geneva meeting could be a first step in that direction. fifthly, it is obvious that international law and the international institutions do not function. we might deplore it but we would do better to negotiate new covenants adapted to the post-bipolar realities. the helsinki act might have died in crimea but it was mortally wounded in kosovo. lastly, if we want to be successful we must stop approaching international relations from an ideological perspective whilst consolidating and deepening eu integration. if we want peace, stability, security and freedom within our borders as well as in our neighbourhood, if we want russia to respect our standards, then we need a true power in europe, be it a soft power, but a power nevertheless.
mr president, the domino effect, appeasement and the doctrine of protecting nationals in foreign countries all played a crucial role in the outbreak of the last two world wars. alas, they are all present today in the crisis created by russia’s military actions against ukraine and its increasing pressures on the eastern partnership countries. the stakes are very high. this is not just another crisis which will fade away like the one in georgia in 2008. the current european order – based on the helsinki final act, the conventional armed forces in europe (cfe) treaty signed in paris – the eu’s credibility and article 5 of the washington treaty on which nato rests will all be called into question if what is happening in ukraine does not get the right answer. if we let ourselves be lured by the siren song of the executioner playing victim, by the appeals to stand tall to the warmongering americans or by the fata morgana of endless riches provided by lucrative contracts, or let ourselves be scared by the accompanying threats, then we stand to lose much more than money. those contracts, our energy dependence and the iranian and syrian dossiers are now simply instruments through which russia hopes to get our acquiescence to its military actions, destabilisation and pressure on the eastern partnership countries. moldova and georgia, along with ukraine, deserve full support to resist those pressures and provocations in order to continue and accelerate the reform process they engaged in on entering the eastern partnership, thus getting rapidly more substance to their european perspective.
mr president, for a month now we have been busy putting big words in public statements to show our concern for the people of ukraine, our condemnation of moscow’s actions or our indignation at russia’s soviet-style behaviour. resolution after resolution we have shouted out loud our worries when russia bluntly goes about annexing bits and pieces of ukraine. at the same time, president schulz is talking about eu-russia common interests. well, not all of us are willing to sell our souls for russian gas. it might be easy for some to talk that way – the ones who did not feel the destructive might of soviet russia – but it is insulting to all those people from romania, poland or east germany who died fighting for freedom and democracy, and these are the values the ukrainian people are fighting for today. we should not repeat the same mistakes with moldova. we cannot end up debating resolutions when it is too late. we must give them a european membership perspective and sign the association agreement as soon as possible.
mr. president, what's happening in the ukraine is unacceptable. a sovereign state is being attacked from outside, and from within it is losing, against all international rules, territory. the russian federation takes advantage of the economic situation and the legitimate desire of the european union for the absence of armed conflict and acts without hesitation outside of any international rules and treaties. we cannot accept the annexation of crimea. statements that it's a fait accompli are not helping to resolve the situation in the area. the lack of reaction has led to the extension of the process to kharkov and dombas and may reach as far as transnistria. moldova has shown a lot of will, resisted pressure and made important steps on its european path. we cannot accept that moldova is subjected without its will to a loss of territory. the union must support ukraine. firm positions and measures are needed. the sanctions applied so far have not had the expected effects. economic sanctions are needed to make a difference. the gas is needed by the beneficiary, but the producer also needs to sell. economic sanctions can create short-term problems for member states, but they are absolutely necessary if we want to avoid much worse consequences in the long term. the russian federation must be stopped from these actions directed against a sovereign state and which endanger the peace of the whole of europe.
mr president, as chairman of the committee on cooperation with the republic of moldova, i would first of all like to refer to the republic of moldova and say that the only way to protect the republic of moldova from soviet aggression and from the aggression organized and planned by putin is to bring moldova as close as possible to the european union, to bring moldova into the european union. we must be able to find a special integration mechanism, a special mechanism to integrate the republic of moldova - we are probably also discussing georgia and ukraine here - so a special mechanism to integrate it into the european union with all kinds of conditions to continue the reforms it must carry out to the end. but we are in a moment of political crisis and the response must be a crisis response and the only way, i repeat, to protect the republic of moldova is to bring it into the european union. in moldova, russia has done exactly the same as in georgia, they are trying to tear off pieces of territory, i give an example of the illegal referendum in february 2014 in gagauzia, the same in transnistria, where again today they are trying to deepen the rupture of transnistria from the republic of moldova. and now i want to remind everyone again what putin said in 2011, and that the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century was the demise of the soviet union, and that russia is the soviet union. so today we're talking about the soviet union and putin - kgb officer who's trying to rebuild the soviet union through blood, terror, genocide.
mr president, i went to the commission's website before coming to the plenary and, at the time we are having this debate, russia is listed there as a strategic partner. one of the areas of cooperation in the partnership for modernization, as it is called, very pretentiously, this relationship, is called freedom, security and justice. i ask you, commissioner füle, i ask you, honourable members, what does putin have to do with freedom, security and justice? the partnership with russia must be abandoned. if we do not want to remain, for future generations, beggars for gas, we must initiate a policy of firmness, based on sanctions and the delimitation of putin. cooperating with putin is not gonna save us. there's one more thing: the next victim is moldova, more precisely, the eastern part of the republic of moldova, transnistria. there's still time to act. i have proposed that in the text of the resolution we are going to vote on, we should ask that the union become part of the negotiations and not just an observer, as it is at the moment. i understand that under the pressure of the socialist group, a warm formula was chosen, in which the 5[nbsp ]+[nbsp ]2 format is maintained, which, for 20 years now, has only given russia courage to maintain troops, not to move a soldier from the territory of moldova. if we want to wake up again to a fact of life, we maintain this position of fear and not of firmness.
mr. president, i will answer the question "what should be done?" by suggesting the following:1. the use of economic sanctions against the aggressor without hesitation; 2. redefining, as a major priority of the future european commission and the future parliament, a genuine energy strategy on behalf of all 28 member states; 3. redefining the common security and defence policy and strengthening the transatlantic relationship to respond to the imperialist challenge from moscow.
mr president, a point of information: i have just received the news that the soviet of transnistria has asked for unification with russia.
in writing. - the directive provides that workers moving to another member state will not lose their state pension rights. there are currently no similar rules at eu level for supplementary pension schemes, so eu citizens who move between member states risk losing their acquired rights over a period of time if it is not considered long enough by the country they move to. the period of active membership of a pension scheme required for a person to retain his supplementary pension rights must not exceed three years. a clause was also included that crossborder workers should benefit from the same level of protection, which member states must implement for four years. the text also provides that member states may allow the social partners to lay down other provisions in collective agreements, provided that those provisions offer equally favourable protection and do not create obstacles to the free movement of workers.
in writing. - i supported the adoption at first reading of the directive on minimum requirements for increasing the mobility of workers between member states by improving the acquisition and retention of supplementary pension rights. it lays down rules aimed at facilitating the exercise of the right of workers to freedom of movement between member states by reducing the obstacles created by certain rules governing supplementary pension schemes linked to the existence of an employment relationship. member states shall take the necessary measures to ensure that: where a period of vesting of pension rights or a waiting period, or both, applies, the total combined period shall in no case exceed three years for workers who cease to work; where a minimum age for vesting pension rights is stipulated, that age shall not exceed 21 years for workers who cease to work; where a worker who ceases to work has not yet acquired pension rights acquired at the time of termination of the employment contract, the supplementary pension scheme shall refund the tax contributions paid by or on behalf of the worker under the internal taxation agreement or, where the amount of the tax contributions is the investment or risk resulting from the investment, the amount of the tax contributions or risk incurred by the worker in the case of the investment or risk resulting from the employment contract.
in writing. - ensuring a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain is a key objective of the treaty on european union and can only be achieved through the correct application of complex legislation in this field. today's vote will bring about a general harmonised legal framework at eu level and will allow the process of a thorough review of existing provisions to begin. this will allow for the removal of any overlapping regulations and a proportionate and flexible approach to be able to react more effectively in preventing and tackling risks as well as in emergency situations. as regards the financing of official controls, i consider it necessary to ensure that in particular the provisions for setting fees are clear and unambiguous, as this is the only way to achieve uniform application in the member states. it is also important that the bureaucratic burden of collecting fees is minimised when setting fees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on official controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the enforcement of food and feed law, animal health and welfare rules, plant health, plant reproductive material and plant protection products. this regulation shall apply to official controls performed to verify compliance with the following rules, established either at union level or by the member states for the purpose of applying union legislation in the following areas: food regulation, food safety, quality and hygiene at all stages of food production, processing and distribution; regulation of the deliberate release of gmos into the environment; prevention and minimisation of antimicrobial resistance in animals and humans as well as in the environment; regulation of feed and feed safety; establishment of animal health and welfare requirements; prevention and minimisation of risks to human and animal health arising from animal by-products and derived products, etc.
in writing. - i voted for the proposed animal health regulation. this regulation lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which are transmissible to animals or humans, tools and mechanisms to facilitate progress towards the declaration of disease-free areas and territories, and prioritises actions and the sharing of responsibilities in relation to animal health. the impact of transmissible animal diseases and of the measures needed to control those diseases can be devastating for individual animals, animal populations, animal holders and the whole economy and can have a major influence on public health and food safety. as recent experience has shown, transmissible animal diseases can also have a significant impact on public health and food safety, as for example in the case of avian influenza and salmonella. in order to ensure that the legislation is as clear as possible and is therefore applied correctly and fully, it is necessary to identify a criterion and a principle for the organisation of the delegated and implementing acts to be adopted pursuant to this regulation.
in writing. - i believe that the proposed measures for protection against plant pests must be taken in such a way as to ensure that all operators apply the precautionary principle and that the eradication of pests is carried out in a sustainable manner in order to protect the health of the food and agricultural chain, the population and, by implication, the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on measures to protect against organisms harmful to plants. this regulation lays down rules for the carrying out of phytosanitary inspections and other official activities by the authorities of the member states for the purpose of identifying the phytosanitary risks posed by any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic agents, animals or plants harmful to plants or plant products (hereinafter referred to as 'pests'), including invasive plant pests and the necessary phytosanitary measures to prevent the introduction of pests from other member states or third countries. member states should take measures to raise awareness of the potential economic, social and environmental impact of plant pests, the key principles relating to their prevention and spread, and the responsibility of society as a whole to ensure plant health in the union. at the same time, the commission should maintain an updated, publicly accessible list of emerging harmful organisms in third countries that could pose a risk to plant health in the union.
in writing. - i voted to amend the regulation on the safety of consumer products and to repeal directive 87/357/eec and directive 2001/95/ec. the objective of this regulation is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market while maintaining a high level of health, safety and consumer protection. the provisions of this regulation are based on the precautionary principle. this regulation should apply and prohibit the marketing, import and manufacture or export of consumer products which, although not being foodstuffs, resemble foodstuffs and may mislead certain persons, in particular young children. products that are attractive to children should also be assessed in terms of their level of risk and appropriate measures should be taken to reduce that risk. i voted for amendment 60, which supports the introduction of the eu safety tested marking. this marking may be applied only to consumer products covered by this regulation and may not be applied to other products. the eu safety tested mark shall be applied after testing on representative samples of the products for sale, selected at random under the control of a judicial officer, an authority or any other third body.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on product market surveillance. the european single market is based on the free movement of goods, which is why there must be close supervision in the european union of goods traded within the eu, including products imported from outside the union. while the rapex alert system has already proven its effectiveness, better and more transparent cooperation between member states is needed to accurately identify problem goods, including their place of origin. i'll give you just two examples to illustrate this point: the 2011 e-coli outbreak, when responsibility and blame was passed from one country to another, and the 2013 horse meat scandal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on product market surveillance. the market surveillance activities covered by this regulation should not be exclusively concerned with the protection of health and safety, but should also apply to ensuring compliance with union legislation aimed at protecting other public interests, for example by regulating measurement accuracy, electromagnetic compatibility, energy efficiency and applicable environmental legislation. this regulation should apply to all forms of supply of products, including distance selling. member states and the commission should develop a common approach to market surveillance of products sold online and, where necessary, provide guidance on the roles and responsibilities of operators in the e-commerce supply chain with a view to strengthening the enforcement of rules on products sold online. in order to facilitate the work of market surveillance authorities, economic operators should make available to those authorities all documents and information necessary for the performance of their activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on markets in financial instruments and amending the regulation on otc derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories. the financial crisis has brought to the fore a number of deficiencies in the transparency of financial markets that can contribute to negative socio-economic effects. in order to increase transparency and improve the functioning of the internal market in financial instruments, it is necessary to establish a new framework laying down uniform requirements as regards the transparency of transactions in markets for financial instruments. the regulation adopted at first reading lays down uniform requirements in relation to: (a) the publication of transaction data; (b) the reporting of transactions to competent authorities; (c) the trading of derivatives on organised venues; (d) non-discriminatory access to clearing and non-discriminatory access to trading of benchmarks; (e) the responsibilities of competent authorities, the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the european banking authority with regard to product intervention, and the responsibilities of esma with regard to position management controls and position limits; (f) the provision of investment services or activities by third country companies following an applicable equivalence decision adopted by the commission, with or without a branch.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the markets in financial instruments directive, repealing directive 2004/39/ec. the evolution of financial markets has highlighted the need to strengthen the regulatory framework for markets in financial instruments, including over-the-counter (otc) trading in those markets, in order to increase transparency, investor protection, trust, address unregulated areas and to give supervisors adequate powers to fulfil their tasks. it is appropriate to include in the list of financial instruments commodity derivatives and those that, by their constitution and trading, involve regulatory issues comparable to those applicable to classical financial instruments. the adopted directive applies to investment firms, market operators, data reporting services providers and third-country firms providing investment services or performing investment activities in the union by establishing a branch. it lays down requirements relating to the following: the conditions of authorisation and operation applicable to investment firms; the provision of investment services or activities by third-country firms through the establishment of a branch; the authorisation and operation of regulated markets; the authorisation and operation of data reporting services providers; and supervision, cooperation and enforcement by competent authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 638/2004 on community statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, the communication of information by the customs administration, the exchange of confidential data between member states and the definition of the statistical value. i consider that, in order to satisfy the needs of users of statistical information without imposing excessive burdens on economic operators, to take into account changes required for methodological reasons and the need to set up an efficient system for data collection and statistics, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union should be delegated to the commission in respect of adopting different or specific rules applicable to specific goods or movements, adapting the coverage rates of intrastat, specifying the conditions for the definition of the thresholds referred to in article 10 (4) of regulation (ec) no 638/2004, specifying the conditions for the simplification of the information to be provided for small transactions and defining aggregated data. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 638/2004, implementing powers should also be conferred on the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on improving the settlement of financial instruments in the european union and on central securities depositories (csds) and amending directive 98/26/ec. by playing an important role in financial instrument holding systems, whereby participants report financial instruments held by investors, financial instrument settlement systems managed by csds function as an essential tool for checking the integrity of a given issue, thereby preventing the unjustified creation or reduction of issued financial instruments and thus playing an important role in maintaining investor confidence. in addition, the financial instrument settlement systems managed by csds are closely involved in the collateralisation of monetary policy operations as well as in the collateralisation process between credit institutions and are therefore important players in the collateralisation processes. the adopted regulation provides for uniform requirements for the settlement of financial instruments in the union as well as rules on the organisation and operation of central securities depositories in order to promote the safety, efficiency and soundness of settlement. it shall apply to the settlement of all financial instruments and activities of csds, unless otherwise provided for in this regulation.
in writing. - i voted for the report on relations between the european parliament and the national parliaments. the european parliament (ep) has paid particular attention to the role of national parliaments (np) in responding to the accusation of a 'democratic deficit' in the eu and finding valuable allies in building a european conscience. we welcome the treaty provisions which confer on national parliaments a number of rights and obligations which enable them to contribute actively to the proper functioning of the union. these rights and duties relate to: (a) active participation in eu affairs (power to ratify treaties, participation in the convention referred to in article 48 teu, control of national governments, control of subsidiarity, exceptional possibility of opposition, transfer of european law into national legislation); (b) political dialogue (interparliamentary cooperation and mutual exchange of information with the european institutions, in particular the european parliament). i believe that in order for member states to be represented unitedly and fully democratically in the eu, the position taken by national governments in the council should take account of the views of national parliaments, thus reinforcing the democratic nature of the council. we call on the commission to respond promptly and fully to the reasoned opinions and contributions submitted by the national parliaments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of pressure equipment. this directive concerns pressure equipment and assemblies which are new to the union market when they are placed on the market, namely either new pressure equipment or assemblies produced by a manufacturer established in the union or new or second-hand pressure equipment or assemblies imported from a third country. the directive should apply to all forms of supply, including distance selling. this directive applies to the design, manufacture and conformity assessment of pressure equipment and assemblies with a maximum allowable pressure exceeding 0,5 bar. pressure equipment subject to a pressure of 0,5 bar or less shall not present significant pressure related risks. therefore, their free movement within the union cannot be impeded.
in writing. - i voted for the amendment of regulation (eu) no 1215/2012 as regards the rules applicable to the unified patent court and the benelux court of justice. the amendments to regulation (eu) no 1215/2012 provided for in this regulation as regards the unified patent court are intended to establish the international jurisdiction of that court. as courts common to several member states, the benelux unified patent court and the benelux court of justice are not, unlike a court of a member state, able to exercise jurisdiction under national law in respect of defendants who are not domiciled in a member state. the rules laid down in regulation (eu) no 1215/2012 should, as regards matters falling within the competence of the unified patent court and the benelux court of justice respectively, also apply to defendants domiciled in third countries. the existing rules on jurisdiction in regulation (eu) no 1215/2012 ensure a close link between the actions to which that regulation applies and the territory of the member states. it is therefore appropriate to extend those rules to actions against all defendants, irrespective of their domicile.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 577/98 on the organisation of a labour force sample survey in the union. labour force survey is a key tool for collecting statistical data on the labour market situation in the european union, which can be used in european policy-making. i welcome the new provisions of the regulation, in particular those on alignment with the regime for delegated and implementing acts. given the important role that national statistical institutes play in labour force survey surveys, i welcome the introduction of a legal basis for granting grants in the form of lump sums and without a call for projects to statistical institutes operating in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 577/98 on the organisation of a labour force sample survey in the community. in order to effectively combat discrimination in accordance with article 10 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), to contribute to ensuring compliance with article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and to pursue the objective of full employment and social progress in accordance with article 3 of the treaty on european union (teu), and to monitor progress towards the achievement of union policy objectives, such as the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, comparable, reliable and objective statistics on the situation of workers, the unemployed and persons out of work are necessary, while respecting statistical confidentiality, privacy and the protection of personal data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the multiannual financing of the european maritime safety agency's actions in the field of combating pollution caused by ships and marine pollution caused by oil and gas installations. considers it necessary to renew the multiannual funding for the period 2014-2020 in order to ensure the proper performance of the maritime safety agency's activities. i am pleased that consensus has been reached both on the agency's budget, with a view to increasing it, and on clarifying the issues relating to the definition of oil and gas installations. i believe that the agency plays an important role in tackling pollution from ships and gas and oil installations and that the benefits are both ecological, socio-economic and financial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on the multiannual financing of the european maritime safety agency's actions in the field of combating pollution caused by ships and marine pollution caused by oil and gas installations. the agency shall provide a network of oil spill response vessels to supplement the response capacity of member states in such situations. the agency shall provide a satellite oil spill detection and monitoring service, cleanseanet, as well as information on chemical spills, through the mar-ice network. since january 2013, the agency has been given new tasks such as: responding to 'marine pollution caused by oil and gas installations'; monitoring by cleanseanet of marine hydrocarbon pollution caused by oil and gas installations and its impact on the environment. the geographical area covered (member states and acceding states) also extends to the european neighbourhood policy partner countries and the countries participating in the paris memorandum of understanding on port state control. the amount of eur 160,5 million allocated by the commission for the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020 is therefore considered to be insufficient.
in writing. - unemployment is the greatest social challenge facing europe today. in july 2013, the unemployment rate in the eu as a whole was 11%, and for some member states it was above 20%. smes, micro-enterprises, entrepreneurs and innovators are job creators, currently providing 90 million jobs in the private sector in the eu, where there is huge potential for job creation, growth and innovation. given that 85% of all new jobs in the last 10 years have been created by smes, we need to ensure that the needs of smes are placed at the heart of policy-making. the commission and the member states should fully exploit the job creation potential of the green economy by developing a rise for sustainable europe (rise) industrial recovery strategy, which aims at technological, social and business innovation towards a third industrial revolution, including a low-carbon modernisation offensive. rise will create new markets, new business models and creative entrepreneurship, new jobs and decent work, producing an industrial renewal characterised by dynamism, confidence and economic competitiveness.
in writing. - i support the promotion of non-bank financing methods for businesses in the european union. in the period 2009-2011, 64% of enterprises preferred bank loans as their main source of financing. in 2013, that number jumped to 68 percent. however, also during 2013, 29% of all enterprises that applied for a bank loan did not receive the financing they needed. the european union provides non-bank financial support through the european regional development funds (erdf), the european investment bank (eib) or through the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) and the horizon 2020 programme. i call on the european commission to provide member states with a good platform to inform them about the non-bank financing opportunities offered by the european union to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises that have not been able to obtain bank loans.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on how the european union can help create a favourable environment for businesses, companies and start-ups to create jobs. we underline the job creation potential of the green economy, which the commission estimates could create 5[nbsp ] million jobs by 2020 in the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors alone, provided ambitious climate change and energy policies are put in place. we call on member states to ensure sufficient levels of investment in these sectors, to anticipate future skills requirements of workers and to guarantee the quality of 'green' jobs. education and training systems should be better adapted to and converged with the skills required by enterprises in the future. we stress that free and fair competition in the single market, underpinned by common social standards, is vital to stimulate growth and innovation and therefore increases employment in the union. we also support better coordination of eu corporate tax systems through the introduction of a harmonised tax base, accompanied by measures to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning.
in writing. - i voted for the motion on new technologies and open educational resources. in 2012, 15,8%[nbsp ] of young people in the eu were not in employment and were not in education or training, and were thus at risk of being excluded from the labour market as a result of the growing skills mismatch. also, by 2020, 90% of jobs will require digital skills, and by 2015 there will be around 900000 unfilled vacancies in the field of information and communication technologies (ict) in the eu. we invite member states to ensure coordinated and progressive education on safe internet use in schools. we underline the commission's role in encouraging the exchange of good practice between member states and between educational institutions, building on existing projects and experiences, and ask the commission to promote and extend the european schoolnet network and actions. we also welcome the commission's initiative to develop indicators for the close monitoring of ict integration in education and training institutions.
in writing. - the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), signed in 1973, guarantees that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not endanger their survival. at eu level, regulation (ec) no 338/97 ensures the protection of species of wild fauna and flora through a series of provisions on their import, export and re-export, and trade. the reform of that regulation is necessary and justified by the need to update it under the treaty of lisbon in order to allow for further amendments related to delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling trade in them. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) aims to ensure that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not endanger their survival. it contains provisions on the import, export and re-export and on trade within the union of specimens of the species listed in its four annexes. the amendments to regulation (ec) no 338/97 are justified by the need to update the proposal under the treaty of lisbon to replace the old obsolete provisions with new provisions, in particular as regards the comitology rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of seychelles. the economy of the republic of seychelles is based mainly on fishing and tourism. the seychelles have signed fisheries agreements on the catches of migratory species with the eu, japan, south korea and taiwan. the eu-seychelles agreement is one of a number of fisheries agreements signed by the eu with countries in the indian ocean, and must be approached from a regional perspective. the first eu-seychelles fisheries agreement dates back to 1984 and has since evolved into a fisheries partnership agreement (fpa). the agreements could initially be renewed every three years, while the fpa is automatically renewed, except in cases where the protocol is suspended or terminated at the request of one of the parties. in 2013, a new protocol to that fisheries agreement was initialled, covering a period of six years from its provisional application. given that the current protocol expired in january 2014, the new protocol should be applied provisionally as from january 2014 in order to ensure the continuity of the eu fleet's activities in seychelles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the eu and the union of the comoros setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement in force between the two parties. the main objective of the protocol to the agreement is to provide eu vessels with fishing opportunities in the union of the comoros's fishing zone within the limits of the available surplus. the overall objective is to enhance cooperation between the eu and the union of the comoros with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros' fishing zone, in the interest of both parties. the total annual financial contribution shall be eur 600 000 per year over the entire reference period. this contribution shall be based on: a reference tonnage of 6 000 tonnes for an access charge of eur 300 000. however, the total annual amount paid by the european union may not exceed twice that amount. this support shall meet the objectives of the national fisheries policy and, in particular, the needs of the union of the comoros in the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the protocol agreed between the eu and the republic of madagascar setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement in force between the two parties. the fisheries partnership agreement agreed between the eu and madagascar allows european fishing vessels to fish in madagascar's waters and is part of the series of tuna fisheries agreements concluded with countries in the indian ocean region. the protocol, which grants fishing opportunities to eu vessels and sets the amount of the financial contribution, will expire on 31 december 2012. a new protocol should therefore be concluded which better corresponds to the actual capabilities and requirements of the fleet of the member states. the new protocol proposed by the european commission, which must be approved by the european parliament, applies for two years (2013-2014) and provides for fishing opportunities for 96 vessels (40 purse seine tuna vessels and 56 floating parachute vessels). the total financial contribution of the protocol is eur 3 050 000 (i.e. eur 1 525 000 per year), an increase of eur 328 000 per year compared to the previous agreement (2007-2012).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, on readmission matters, approving the conclusion of the agreement. the republic of korea is one of the european union's most important partners in asia. both partners, the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of korea, on the other, have close relations not only for economic reasons but also because of the shared values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the first framework agreement on trade and trade cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, was signed in luxembourg on 28 october 1996 and entered into force on 1 april 2001. the new framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, was concluded on 14 october 2009 and signed by both parties on 10 may 2009 in seoul. it repeals the 1996 agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, with the exception of readmission issues, approving the conclusion of the agreement. south korea was the first country in asia to sign the eu's framework and free trade agreements. the eu-korea free trade agreement, which complements the framework agreement, was signed in 2010 and entered into force provisionally in 2011. the new framework agreement is based on common principles such as equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit and respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the global agreement provides for enhanced political, economic and sectoral cooperation in the following policy areas: • peace and security, conflict prevention and crisis management; • trade; • the environment; • energy, science and technology; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • good governance; • tourism and culture; • migration; • combating terrorism, corruption and organised crime. the agreement will further enhance cooperation in identifying solutions to existing global challenges, an area in which both korea and the eu play an increasingly important role, such as within the g20.
in writing. - the stabilisation and association agreement between the union and montenegro, signed in 2007 and entered into force in 2010, represents an important step in supporting montenegro in its prospects of joining the european union. i have always supported the stabilisation and association process of the balkan countries by developing economic relations with them, by providing financial assistance, assistance for democratisation, civil society, education and institutional development. we have always promoted cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs and the fight against corruption. the inclusion of croatia among the signatories to the agreement further symbolises the union's commitment to bringing the western balkan countries closer to the member states and democratic values. we must continue to fight for the political and economic stability of the states in this region and demonstrate in this vital region that europeanization remains the safest bet for the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. negotiations for the conclusion of the protocol started on 22 november 2012, following earlier technical consultations with montenegro on this subject. subsequent rounds of negotiations took place on 25 january 2013 and 7 march 2013. the protocol was initialled by the commission and the government of montenegro on 16 may 2013. the commission proposes to the council to decide on the signing and provisional application of the protocol on behalf of the european union and to conclude the protocol on behalf of the union and its member states. as regards the conclusion of the protocol on behalf of the european atomic energy community, the commission proposes that the council approve the conclusion of the protocol in accordance with the second paragraph of article 101 of the treaty establishing the eaec.
in writing. - i support the participation of neighbourhood countries in the work of union agencies and european programmes. it is important to provide these countries with an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links with the union and the member states. participation in union programmes will enhance people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, promote reform and modernisation in the union's neighbourhood and strengthen regulatory and administrative convergence. according to a progress report published by the european commission as part of the 2014 neighbourhood policy package, the political dialogue between the union and the georgian government was intense in 2013. it is important to continue to support georgia on its path towards the rule of law and to provide it with support to cope with pressure from the russian federation. the protocol signed in december 2013 between the european union and georgia is an important step for georgia and needs to be implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and georgia on the general principles for the participation of georgia in union programmes by which the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between georgia and the european communities entered into force on 1 july 1999. georgia has actively participated in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. i support the protocol to the apc that was signed on 12 december 2013. the objective of the protocol is to lay down the financial and technical rules enabling georgia to participate in certain union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol constitutes a measure of economic, financial and technical cooperation, which allows access to assistance, in particular financial assistance, to be provided by the union under union programmes. this framework shall apply only to programmes for which the relevant constituent legal acts provide for the possibility of participation by georgia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed locally in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed locally in the autonomous region of the azores. in accordance with the explanatory memorandum of the commission proposal, portugal was authorised until 31 december 2013 to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the outermost regions of madeira and the azores to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed locally, taking into account the small area, fragmentation and low degree of mechanization of agricultural holdings and to compensate for the additional costs of transporting raw materials and installing equipment in these remote island areas. portugal requested the renewal of this authorisation until 31 december 2020 and the commission considered that the renewal is justified in order to avoid holding back the development of these outermost regions and to avoid distortion of competition in the internal market, while limiting the tax benefits to what is strictly necessary to compensate for the additional costs. this measure aims to further stimulate economic activity in the outermost regions and has no disruptive effect on the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the aiem tax applicable in the canary islands. decision 2002/546/ec authorises spain to apply, until 30 june 2014, exemptions or reductions from the 'arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias' (referred to as 'aiem') for certain products locally manufactured in the canary islands. the purpose of this exemption is to strengthen competitiveness, to compensate for the additional production costs generated by isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to build stocks, the small size of the local market and the low level of exports. spain may apply exemptions or reductions from the aiem tax for certain products locally manufactured in the canary islands for the period 2014-2020. the specific features of the canary islands are holding back their development and are responsible for the additional costs borne by local operators and it is justified to maintain the exemption or reduction of the aiem for a list of locally manufactured products, given that this measure is necessary and proportionate and does not undermine the integrity and consistency of the union legal order. this measure aims at continuing to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in an outermost region, without prejudice to the union legal order.
in writing. - i voted to amend the period of application of council decision 2004/162/ec on the dock dues in the french overseas departments. decision 2004/162/ec authorises france, until 1 july 2014, to apply exemptions or reductions to 'anchorage duties' for a number of products manufactured in the french outermost regions (except saint martin) in order to increase competitiveness and compensate for additional production costs due to isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, stockholding, the small size of the local market and the low level of export activity. france has requested that a differentiated charging system similar to the current system be maintained until 31 december 2020. this measure is justified and aims to further stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in an outermost region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the rules of procedure as regards the provisions relating to parliamentary questions. i voted for amendments nos 4, 8, 9, 10 and 11. each part-session thus includes a 90-minute question-and-answer period for the commission on one or more specific horizontal topics decided by the conference of presidents. the conference of presidents shall invite commissioners whose portfolio is linked to the specific horizontal theme or themes on which they will be asked questions. no more than two commissioners shall be invited to each part-session, with the possibility of inviting a third according to the specific horizontal theme or themes chosen for the question time. the questions are submitted electronically. each member may table no more than five questions per month. exceptionally, a member may submit additional questions in the form of a paper document, signed by the member himself and deposited with the competent department of the secretariat. each member may also put a maximum of six questions for written answer to the european central bank per month, in accordance with the criteria set out in an annex to these rules of procedure. questions shall be published, together with the answer, on parliament's website.
in writing. - i voted to amend rule 90 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament on international agreements. at present, the rules of procedure do not provide for the other committees to deliver an opinion on resolutions on international agreements, although, in view of the increasing number of comprehensive agreements with a significant trade component, it has become indispensable to give the international trade committee the opportunity to contribute to shaping parliament's position. the objective of allowing for the issuing of opinions in the context of parliament's examination of international agreements can be achieved by amending rule 90 (4) of parliament's rules of procedure. by extending the period of application of that provision, which currently equals the duration of the negotiations, to cover the entire procedure from the start of the negotiations to the conclusion of the agreement, parliament could therefore intervene at any time to clarify its position with a view to the approval it must give. at the same time, other committees could participate in the procedure as committees called upon for an opinion or as associated committees in a consolidated form.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament to allow the use of electronic signatures. i therefore voted for the introduction of a new article 148 entitled 'electronic processing of documents' and which states that parliament's documents may be prepared, signed and distributed in electronic format. the office shall decide on the technical specifications and the presentation of the electronic format. also, in rule 156 paragraph 1 the interpretation following paragraph 2, the text which stated that amendments could be signed electronically in a pilot project involving a limited number of parliamentary committees is deleted, provided that, on the one hand, the committees participating in the project had given their consent and, on the other hand, that appropriate measures had been taken to ensure the authenticity of the signatures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the shift2rail joint undertaking. the shift2rail joint undertaking ((s2r) will be a public-private partnership aimed at stimulating and better coordinating union investment in research and innovation in the railway sector, while creating new employment opportunities, with a view to accelerating and facilitating the transition towards a more integrated, user-friendly, efficient, sustainable and attractive eu railway market, in line with the overall objective of achieving a single european railway area. the s2r joint undertaking will contribute to the achievement of the specific objectives set out in the 2011 white paper and the fourth railway package, such as improving the efficiency of the railway sector for the benefit of public finances, significantly expanding or upgrading the capacity of the rail network to enable rail transport to compete effectively and to take a significantly higher share of passenger and freight transport, improving the quality of rail transport services by meeting the needs of passengers and freight forwarders, removing technical barriers affecting interoperability across the sector and reducing the negative externalities of rail transport. the progress of the s2r joint undertaking towards meeting those objectives should be measured on the basis of key performance indicators.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution adopting the regulation on the introduction of noise operating restrictions at airports in the union. the regulation harmonises, clarifies and strengthens common rules on noise-related operating restrictions at eu airports, such as the prohibition of night flights. the rules, which are based on principles agreed by icao and known as the 'balanced approach', cover in particular the assessment and management of aircraft noise and aim to identify the most effective way of reducing aircraft noise at each airport. the regulation applies only to large airports with more than 50 000 aircraft movements per year and does not set specific noise thresholds, which remain the responsibility of national or local authorities. at parliament's initiative, local authorities will retain the power to decide on noise reduction measures at airports, such as measures to ban night flights. moreover, the commission is obliged to come up with solutions to the health problems caused by noise at airports by revising the environmental noise directive 2002/49/ec.
in writing. - i support the commission's proposal to continue this programme for the years 2020-2033. the union must support an ambitious cultural policy and defend cultural diversity in the member states. in 2007, the romanian city of sibiu was the european capital of culture together with luxembourg city. the big gain for sibiu after this year was certainly the increased visibility it benefited from. the number of tourists in 2007 reached 700 000, double the number in 2006 and triple the number in 2005. of the total number of tourists, 40% were foreign tourists. at the same time, the investments in the city's infrastructure made for 2007 benefited the inhabitants of sibiu. this is just one example of the benefits this programme brings to a city, providing opportunities for issues of social inclusion and cohesion, education, tourism, heritage and urban regeneration at all levels.
in writing. - welcomes the parliament's approval of the agreement reached by the committee on culture in its negotiations with the council, in particular on the divergent position on the designation of the winning cities of the european capital of culture; the cultural capitals initiative is of great importance to the union, since 1985 it has been one of the projects best known to citizens, a true symbol of community programmes. today, we are taking a step forward by adopting the regulatory framework for the period after 2020, giving cities a green light to present their cultural applications and programmes. i hope that the new programme will provide more funding for the cultural capitals, given the possibility of accessing additional resources from the eu, especially from the structural funds, but also from national administrations. the leverage effect is to make infrastructure investments sustainable in the long term, with the effects of the cultural capital title being maintained in the years to come. i also express my confidence that the member states, who will designate the city as the cultural capital on the basis of the recommendations of the expert jury, will choose the best candidate, strictly according to objective criteria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution adopting the decision on the union action on european capitals of culture for the period 2020-2033. the existing rules for the designation of european capitals of culture from 2006 expire in 2019. the commission proposal maintains the structure and content of the current procedure and includes a calendar setting out the order in which member states will host a european capital of culture. the selection will be based on a presentation by the candidate cities of their cultural programmes throughout the year. candidate cities will be able to include in their proposal also a neighbouring region. the main changes to the proposal concern: (i) the designation of cities (by the commission and not by the council); (ii) the members of the selection and monitoring panel; and (iii) the opening of the initiative to candidate and potential candidate countries. the agreement reached aims to: increase national representation in the selection and monitoring panel the host member state will appoint two persons; strengthen the european dimension of the annual cultural programmes; ensure the long-term sustainability of infrastructure projects; facilitate access to other sources of european funding (in particular the structural funds). the host member state will also designate a city, based on the recommendation of the expert panel, and the commission will publish the name of the city in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 812/2004 laying down measures concerning incidental catches of cetaceans in fisheries. in view of the shortcomings of regulation (ec) no 812/2004, the relevance and effectiveness of the provisions of that regulation with regard to the protection of cetaceans should be reviewed before the end of 2015. on the basis of that review, the commission shall, if necessary, draw up a comprehensive legislative proposal, to be submitted to the european parliament and to the council, to ensure effective protection of cetaceans, including through regionalisation. the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts to update the technical specifications and conditions of use of acoustic intimidation devices, in particular the signal characteristics and the corresponding implementation characteristics, with a view to adapting the regulation to technical and scientific progress. the commission will provide for a sufficiently long period for the implementation of these adjustments. the power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the commission for a period of not more than four years.
in writing. - freedom of movement for workers is one of the basic conditions for the proper functioning of the european free market. the number of workers transferred annually is significant and growing, making a visible contribution to reducing unemployment and strengthening the employment sector. we must take into account that the posting of workers and the free provision of services, particularly in cross-border areas, is an opportunity with bilateral benefits. perhaps for the first time in romania, the industrial platform of their hometown, chisinau-cris, employs workers from the neighboring state, hungary. it is necessary to establish common standards for posted workers also in the field of the provision of services, within a well-regulated legislative framework that establishes the legal status and the categories of workers and services covered by the posting. the alignment of the laws of the member states is therefore a priority for the effective functioning of the internal market. the establishment of measures aimed at applying non-discriminatory treatment will ensure equal opportunities for participation by companies in host states. the measures will also aim to combat discrimination on grounds of nationality between employees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive implementing directive 96/71/ec on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, adopting the directive at first reading. the adopted directive aims to ensure that an adequate level of protection of the rights of workers posted for the purpose of cross-border provision of services is respected, in particular ensuring that the terms and conditions of employment applicable in the member state where the service is to be provided are applied, in accordance with article 3 of directive 96/71/ec, while facilitating the exercise of the freedom to provide services for service providers, promoting fair competition between them and thus supporting the functioning of the internal market. the directive does not in any way affect the exercise of fundamental rights as recognised in the member states and at union level, including the right or freedom to strike or take other actions which are part of the specific labour relations systems of the member states, in accordance with national law and/or practice. it shall also not affect the right to negotiate, conclude and enforce collective agreements and to bring collective actions in accordance with national law and/or practice.
in writing. - in the context of free movement within the european area, the protection of cultural property belonging to the national heritage becomes a concern of the authorities of all member states. this is in the light of the alarming increase in the trafficking of such goods in recent years. the average number of crimes against national cultural heritage is alarming. it is estimated that there are about 8 000 such cases every year. the european legislation that has been in place until now had to be amended, given its limited effectiveness in returning cultural goods. this inefficiency is partly due to the short time-limits for initiating restitution actions and partly to the related costs and to the non-uniform definitions given to cultural goods of national interest in each of the member states. i believe that the reform should aim at increasing the number of cultural objects returned by extending the time limit for the implementation of the return action and by approximating the laws of the member states as regards the conditions for compensation to the holder of the object of the return. i also support the need to regulate the situation of cultural goods placed on the market as a result of illegal archaeological excavations in many eu countries. i also stress the obligation of the member states to inform each other on the matter of return in order to streamline the whole process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state. the internal market comprises an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in accordance with article 36 tfeu, the relevant provisions on the free movement of goods do not preclude prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or goods in transit justified on grounds relating to the protection of national heritage objects of artistic, historical or archaeological value. the adopted directive applies to the return of cultural objects defined or classified by a member state as belonging to the national heritage as referred to in article 2 (1) of that directive which have left the territory of that member state unlawfully. cultural objects which have left the territory of a member state unlawfully shall be returned in accordance with the procedure and under the conditions laid down in this directive.
in writing. - nearly 100 billion plastic bags are consumed each year, and this number is projected to increase to 111 billion plastic bags by 2020 if no action is taken. this means that on average each european uses 200 plastic bags in a year. this excessive consumption of single-use plastic bags is not only very resource-inefficient, but also has negative consequences for the environment. every year, eight billion plastic bags are dumped into the environment in the eu, including the seas. despite rising resource prices, the current recycling rate for plastic bags is estimated to be only 6.6% and is unlikely to increase significantly in the coming years. for these reasons, i believe that a european approach to this problem is necessary to achieve the desired results.
in writing. - the consumption of plastic bags in the european union is excessive and has significant negative consequences for the environment. each year, eight billion plastic bags are thrown into the environment in the eu, and the current recycling rate for plastic bags is only 6.6%. i therefore consider the commission's proposal to be a key initial step in the adoption of important legislative measures against the irrational use of plastic carrier bags. consumer information plays a decisive role in achieving any objective of reducing the consumption of plastic bags. i therefore believe that efforts at institutional level are needed to raise awareness of the environmental impact of plastic bags and to remove the current perception of plastic as a harmless, cheap and worthless commodity in itself. in addition, carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction substances and substances that are endocrine disruptors should be removed from packaging material in order to avoid unnecessary exposure of humans to such substances and to avoid these substances entering the environment as waste.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste to reduce the consumption of thin plastic carrier bags. it is estimated that in 2010, over 8 billion plastic carrier bags were discarded in the eu. they are not included in waste management systems and accumulate in the environment, especially in the form of marine litter, which is increasingly recognised as a major global problem. once discarded, plastic carrier bags can last for hundreds of years, mostly in a fragmented form. also, from a resource-efficient perspective, the very high and continuously increasing consumption of such bags is not optimal. i support the objective of this proposal on plastic carrier bags to limit negative environmental effects, in particular in terms of waste generation, to encourage waste prevention and more efficient use of resources, while limiting negative socio-economic effects.
in writing. - in recent years, the mediterranean region has been affected by a number of international geopolitical and economic developments, which have contributed to political instability. as a result, migratory flows and asylum pressure from the southern shores of the mediterranean sea have increased on the northern shores, especially on the southern eu member states on the geographical periphery of the eu, such as greece, italy, spain, malta and cyprus. the number of people crossing europe's southern maritime borders using unsafe ships rose to about 10 000 in 2010, rose to over 70 000 in 2011, to fall again to about 20 000 in 2012, with the majority of these crossings organised by smugglers. i believe that responsibility-sharing and solidarity have become indispensable factors in ensuring that the fundamental rights of asylum seekers and refugees are fully respected in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation laying down rules for the surveillance of the external maritime borders in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the objective of the union's external border policy is to ensure the effective monitoring of the crossing of the external borders, including through border surveillance, while contributing to ensuring protection and saving lives. border surveillance aims to prevent unauthorised border crossings, to combat cross-border crime and to detain or take other measures against persons who have crossed the border irregularly. this regulation shall apply to border surveillance operations carried out by member states at their external maritime borders in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. measures taken for the purpose of a maritime operation shall be carried out in such a way as to guarantee, in all situations, the safety of persons intercepted or rescued, the safety of participating units or that of third parties. coercive and investigative measures shall be governed in accordance with national criminal law and the existing instruments on mutual legal assistance in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing a framework for the management of financial liability relating to investor-state dispute settlement tribunals established by international agreements to which the european union is party. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, foreign direct investment has been included in the list of areas covered by the common commercial policy. in accordance with article 3 (1) (e) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the union has exclusive competence in respect of the common commercial policy and may be a party to international agreements containing provisions on foreign direct investment. without prejudice to the division of competences established by the tfeu, this regulation applies to investor-state dispute settlement proceedings conducted under an agreement to which the union is a party or to which the union and its member states are parties and initiated by a third-country complaining party.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community and regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community. in order to improve the transparency and predictability of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations, parties affected by the imposition of provisional anti-dumping and countervailing measures, in particular importers, should be informed of the impending imposition of such measures. in the case of investigations where the imposition of provisional measures is not appropriate, it is also desirable that the parties should have known this sufficiently in advance. a short period should be allowed for exporters or producers to verify the calculation of their individual dumping or subsidy margin before the imposition of provisional measures. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation.
in writing. - the existence and development of european political parties is essential to generate public interest in eu affairs. welcomes the development of a reform package for european political parties as a means of mobilising the democratic energies of individual citizens and their organisations. i believe it is absolutely necessary that european political parties and foundations respect in their programmes and activities and those of their members the values on which the european union is founded, namely respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations. the european union must operate on the basis of the principle of representative democracy as set out in article 10 (1) of the treaty on european union. european political parties and european political foundations will have special rights, obligations and responsibilities under this regulation and should therefore conform to compatible organisational models. membership of a european political party and voluntary participation in its political activities should not be regarded as payments or benefits in kind, but as dedication to volunteering. technical assistance to be provided by the institutions of the european union to european political parties should be based on the principle of equal treatment, should be provided on an invoice and payment basis and should be the subject of a periodic public report by the relevant institution. we also believe that european political parties should be able to finance campaigns in the context of referendums in one or more member states directly related to issues concerning the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 as regards the financing of european political parties. the contributions may only be used to reimburse a percentage of the running costs of european political parties which are directly linked to the objectives of the parties concerned. these reimbursable costs include administrative costs and those relating, inter alia, to technical assistance provided, meetings, events, including cross-border events and joint events with political groups in the european parliament, information, publications, research and studies, campaigns in the context of elections to the european parliament and referendum campaigns organised at european level. the costs of campaigns in the context of elections to the european parliament shall be reimbursed in accordance with the rules laid down in article 17 of the regulation (eu) on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations. exceptionally, contributions may also be used to finance campaigns for national, regional or local referendums, provided that the subject of the referendum concerned is union law, the functioning of an institution of the union or the ratification of amendments to the treaties of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union and repealing regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002. the commission proposal amends article 13 of the financial regulation to include carry-over rules in the case of the emergency aid reserve and of projects financed under the cef, in accordance with article 9 (2) of the cfm regulation as regards the emergency aid reserve and with the explanatory statement of the proposal for a council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2010 as regards the cef. as the commission proposal was submitted before the adoption of the common provisions regulation, it could not provide for certain necessary adjustments in the light of the text of the final political agreement. it is therefore appropriate to include in the financial regulation specific provisions on the establishment of a performance reserve and on the sme initiative in the current revision of the financial regulation, as required by the new mff. this report also endorses a specific joint statement agreed in the negotiations on the commission delegated regulation on the model financial regulation for public-private partnership (ppp) bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending regulation (eu) no 525/2013. shipping has an impact on the global climate and air quality through emissions of carbon dioxide (co2) and other emissions, including nitrogen oxides (nox), sulphur oxides (sox), methane (ch4), particulate matter (ps) and black smoke. this regulation lays down rules for the accurate monitoring, reporting and verification of greenhouse gas emissions and other relevant information from ships arriving in, or within, or departing from ports under the jurisdiction of a member state, in order to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport in a cost-effective manner. this regulation applies to ships of more than 400 gross tons in terms of emissions generated during their voyages from the last port of call to a port under the jurisdiction of a member state and from a port under the jurisdiction of a member state to their next port of call, as well as within ports under the jurisdiction of a member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species. the appearance of allogeneic species, whether animals, plants, fungi or micro-organisms, in new environments is not always a cause for concern. a significant subset of allogeneic species may become invasive, causing serious adverse effects on biodiversity, related ecosystem services, and other economic and social effects, which should be prevented. approximately 12 000 species occurring in the environment in the union and other european countries are allogeneic, of which approximately 10 to 15% are estimated to be invasive. this regulation lays down rules on the prevention, minimisation and mitigation of the adverse effects of the introduction and spread, both intentional and unintentional, of invasive alien species on biodiversity in the union. it is important to ensure that priority is given to addressing the sub-group of invasive alien species considered to be of union interest. a list of invasive alien species of union concern should therefore be established and regularly updated. a harmful invasive species should be considered to be of union interest if the damage caused by it in the affected member states is so significant that special measures with a union-wide scope are justified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (eu) no 525/2013 as regards the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (cconusc). the conference of the parties to the cconusc, serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol, adopted the doha amendment, which established the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, beginning on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020 (the doha amendment). the adoption of the doha amendment, the implementation of related decisions of the conference of the parties to the unfccc serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol and a joint fulfilment agreement require the establishment of rules to ensure the technical implementation in the union of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, including the transition from the first to the second commitment period, in order to allow the effective functioning of a joint fulfilment agreement and to ensure its alignment with the functioning of the european union emissions trading scheme established by directive 2003/87/ec and decision 406/2009/ec.
in writing. - as epp rapporteur on the 2012 report on the protection of the union’s financial interests, i expressed my concerns regarding the attitude of some member states which deal with fraudulent irregularities only through the application of financial corrections instead of investigating fully the potential criminal offence. in this respect, i welcomed the commission’s proposal for a directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law. this directive must represent a strong step forward in the protection of the union’s financial interests and the taxpayers’ money. in order to achieve this ambitious goal, we need a strong legal basis for the directive. criminal procedures will be better unified and therefore more efficient and effective, and at the end of the day this will mean a higher degree of protection against fraudsters. in addition, we need the full participation of the european parliament throughout the entire legal procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the fight against fraud against the union's financial interests by means of criminal law. in order to ensure the consistency of union law with regard to the protection of the financial interests of the union, it is appropriate to introduce certain minimum levels of penalties in relation to the offences defined in this directive. this directive lays down minimum rules. member states should remain free to maintain or introduce more stringent penalties for those offences. i voted against amendment no 42, which excludes vat revenue from the scope of this directive. i voted for amendments nos 43 and 44 tabled by the s&d group which lower the damage threshold from eur 100 000 to eur 50 000. the court of auditors, the national audit bodies and the auditors entrusted with auditing the budgets of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies set up by the treaties or the budgets managed and audited by the institutions shall inform olaf of any criminal offence of which they become aware in the course of their duties. the union's officials shall also inform olaf of any criminal offences of which they become aware during their duties.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge of the ep for 2012 in protest against president schulz, who blocked the vote of critical provisions about his work as president and politicized the appointments in the ep. the president prevented a vote on a point in the report because it criticised him for keeping a report from the olaf supervisory committee to parliament's committee on budgetary control in the drawer for more than two months. the same point criticised him for the 'three-month delay in the transmission by the parliament's administration of a summons from a belgian court to the three members concerned' (paragraph 47). in paragraphs 61 and 62, the president's work is criticised for facilitating the appointment of members of his cabinet to important posts in the ep administration. in this context, the report speaks of 'political seizure of leadership positions and undermining of the staff regulations' (paragraph 61). one of those targeted for the post of director-general of dg pres is markus winkler, martin schulz's chief of staff, who has worked for him since 1996, according to european voice and der spiegel. the criticisms in the european parliament discharge report are serious and put the abuse of mr schulz's mandate in doubt.
in writing. - i voted against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section i european parliament. we regret that the epp group, through its amendments, did not confine itself strictly to the rules imposed on the discharge procedure and tried to use this report to pursue its populist political agenda ahead of the european parliament elections.
in writing. the european union needs a budget based at least 75% on own resources and only 25% on a resource mechanism linked to the economic strength of each member state. the negotiations for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework have once again demonstrated the need for a european union budget based on own resources. if we don't reform the eu budget, on own resources, then we will keep the negotiations of any eu budget in the area of how much a member state contributes and receives from the eu budget and leave the size of that budget to governments.
the council president-in-office of the council. - madam president, the council is fully aware of the problems of payment appropriations in the context of the european union's external aid and of the concerns expressed by mrs barbarella, the president of the council, and the president of the commission, mr delors, in the context of the european union's external aid. joly and mr. lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on development. parliament, the council and the commission have already had an opportunity to discuss this issue at the budgetary trilogue which took place on 2 april. this meeting enabled us to identify possible ways of coping with the financial problems flagged by the commission. the commission was able to give an initial response to the shortage of payment appropriations concerning humanitarian aid and the european instrument for democracy and human rights by presenting two transfer proposals. the council went to considerable lengths to ensure that both of these transfer proposals were processed as quickly as possible. i am very pleased to inform you that since the beginning of this week, following adoption by the agriculture and fisheries council on monday, the commission is in a position to move the requested funds to the budget lines in need. should these additional appropriations prove insufficient to cover the needs of the budget lines later this year, the commission is invited to present further proposals for reallocation of appropriations or, if not sufficient, a draft amending budget. i would like to assure you that the council will fully respect the wording and content of the joint statement on payment appropriations which was agreed by our three institutions in november last year in the context of the conciliation on the 2014 budget. in line with that statement, the council will swiftly process any possible request for the transfer of payment appropriations, including across financial framework headings. it will also reach a position on any possible draft amending budget as quickly as possible in order to avoid any shortfall in payment appropriations. at the same time, you will of course understand that i am not, at this moment, in a position to prejudge at this stage the position that the council will take on any specific transfer request. allow me to say a few words on the proposed eu support package to ukraine which is currently an issue on which the media have particularly focused. the council is determined to support the ukrainian people and the ukrainian government in its efforts to stabilise the country and undertake reform. the council therefore welcomes the comprehensive assistance package presented by the commission and is committed to ensuring its implementation. we acknowledge that this might create additional pressure on the issue of payment appropriations in the eu budget this year. the budgetary trilogue on 2[nbsp ]april was an opportunity for our three institutions to have an exchange of views on this question as well. the commission has meanwhile taken a first set of measures to tackle the problem, and the council has promised to react swiftly. i would like to conclude by recalling that it is the commission which has the power of initiative. it is therefore for the commission to present any proposals for budgetary redeployment or for a draft amending budget. the council for its part is committed to examining any such proposal rapidly and to reaching a position on them as soon as possible.
member of the commission. - madam president, the management of budgets today, both at national and european level, is a management of shortage. this is a fact of life and is due to systematic under-budgeting and the level of payments available being below what is a forecast for payments needed for 2012-2013 and now 2014. we are now familiar with a kind of two-step approach – implementing the budget but then asking for the amending budget, on the basis of perhaps more hard data, to convince the member states to deliver, because even in austerity you need to pay your household bills, such as electricity bills. 2014 will be a difficult year on many fronts, as we have a level of payments which is eur[nbsp ]9[nbsp ]billion lower than that executed last year. so we can expect shortages, unfortunately across the budget and not only for the external obligations of the european union. for example, we have more than eur[nbsp ]20 billion in unpaid bills for cohesion from last year and this is a major headache in the implementation of the 2014 budget. but of course, reacting to the letter and oral questions from ms joly and mr[nbsp ]lamassoure, we need to react in the area of external aid programmes, also having recourse to the tools we have under the financial regulation and under the treaty. this was announced in our joint declaration on payment appropriations. i quote, ‘the global level of payments would be managed through the use of a global margin for payments. if needed, the commission may also have recourse to the flexibility instrument and the contingency margin agreed upon in the ... mff regulation.’ therefore, in this context the commission intends to propose correcting measures in light of implementation, using to the extent possible all the tools offered by the new mff as it was in 2012 and 2013. in 2013 we already mobilised an additional 54% for humanitarian aid, so this is now repeating the exercise with even more dramatic needs. what is our toolbox in this respect? first, there is monitoring, but monitoring is a diagnosis of what the shortages are. this is not enough. secondly, there are precautionary measures. we are taking precautionary measures, for example two tranches for humanitarian aid, and reducing the pre-financing rates to international organisations’ crisis management under the same logic this year. the third tool in our toolbox of course relates to transfers. there are two of these already coming up, one to the advantage of so-called bridge financing and humanitarian aid, and the second to the european instrument for democracy and human rights. mr lamassoure was right. this is exploiting the profile of payments. some budgetary lines need a payment late in the year, but we need to replenish. we are borrowing money somehow to frontload them now, but we need to find compensation by the end of the year. the next tool is the emergency aid reserve. if there is no possible alternative, we have the emergency aid reserve. later in the year, this is a global transfer for redeployment, as far as possible, because we have better knowledge in the second half of the year about what could be redeployed under this management of shortage. last but not least, there is budget amendment. this will come late this year, but will probably not be enough. margins are not enough, so we also need the flexibility instrument and contingency margin. this is the reality of budgets. however, regarding humanitarian aid – and i can agree with the oral questions that these are sometimes lifesaving actions – we need to respond and we to exploit all the possibilities. regarding ukraine, there is additional frontloading – additional monies that were not agreed in the 2014-2020 budgets. as for the profile of this eur 11 billion, eur 1.4 billion relates to grants and the rest to loans, partly under the guarantee of european budgets. this is manageable and i think we need to react as quickly as possible now, given the dramatic, even tragic, developments in eastern ukraine.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, i would like to welcome today's debate on the payment deficit for financing the external aid granted by the european union this year. it is indeed vital that we find a solution to this problem, because from tomorrow until july we will not meet again. or, in the meantime, the european union must honour its commitments and at the same time be able to respond to any humanitarian crises that may arise. i would therefore like to return to the magnitude of this problem. this is a payment deficit of eur 400 million, which is therefore about half of the union's annual humanitarian aid budget. according to the directorate-general for humanitarian aid and civil protection, €150 million needs to be found by the summer to avoid a real crisis of payments. this means that humanitarian projects that are vital for people affected by crises in third countries are at this point in time at risk. it is true that during the crisis the entire union budget had to be reduced and that the problem of payment appropriations affects other budget lines, not just our external action. but i want to mention a few things that i think are very important. first, humanitarian aid is different from other types of union expenditure. these are short-term financing, projects that last 12 to 18 months and often need to be activated immediately if we want our action to be effective in contexts such as armed conflict, drought or floods. secondly, the directorate-general for humanitarian aid and civil protection has helped 120 million people through its actions in 2013. beyond the numbers, it is a payment deficit affecting vulnerable people in syria, south sudan, the central african republic and, here, ukraine, which counts, relying on our help. finally, in opinion polls, humanitarian aid has consistently emerged as one of the union's most popular actions among citizens. it is therefore a matter of responsibility to european citizens and of the credibility of our external action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation laying down detailed rules for the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry and repealing decision 95/167/ec, euratom, ecsc of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the treaty of lisbon has created the conditions for a renewed and stronger institutional balance within the union, allowing its institutions to function more efficiently, more openly and in a more democratic way. the european parliament's powers of political control have been strengthened and extended. therefore, in accordance with national parliamentary practice and the requirements of the treaties, the committees of inquiry of the european parliament should be strengthened by conferring on them specific, real and clearly delimited powers which are more in line with its powers and political status, while respecting the principle of proportionality as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. the powers of committees of inquiry, which are exceptional instruments of political control, should be without prejudice to the responsibilities of other institutions. committees of inquiry should fully respect the rights of the persons they summon to testify in accordance with the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation (eu, euratom) laying down implementing measures for the system of the european union's own resources, approving the draft council regulation. the implementing regulation is part of the wider package on the reform of the own resources system presented by the commission in june 2011 (and revised in november 2011). it contains provisions on the determination of own resources, control and supervision and reporting requirements for national authorities. as indicated in the draft council decision on the system of own resources, the implementing regulation contains provisions of a general nature applicable to all types of own resources and requiring appropriate parliamentary oversight. the council adapted the commission's 2011 proposal to the outcome of the negotiations on the mff/own resources, except for the sections on the reform of the vat own resource and the introduction of an own resource from financial transaction tax (ftt), which did not receive the council's support. unfortunately, the council also decided to transfer the provisions on the calculation of gni-based resources back into the own resources decision, as is currently the case, thus missing the opportunity to bring all the implementing provisions together in a single legislative text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the system of the european union's own resources, approving the council's draft as amended by the european parliament (ep). i voted for amendment no 2 because the current system of union funding, whereby some 74% of resources come from gni-based contributions and 11% from existing statistical vat-based contributions, has led to the introduction of complex and opaque reductions and other correction mechanisms, contributing to the recurrent problem of insufficient payments in the annual budgetary procedure. i voted for amendment no 3 because i support the need for a fundamental reform of the own resources system which should return to a clear, simple and fair own resources system. the ep considered that the commission's legislative proposals on own resources of june 2011 were a step in the right direction, which is why they were supported from the outset by an overwhelming majority of the ep. we also regret that the final political agreement of the european council of 8 february 2013 did introduce new reductions and exceptions.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleagues for their work in this vital dossier for our citizens. a complete reform of the current own resources system is imperative if we want the budget of the eu to be a transparent and equitable one. nevertheless, i deeply deplore the reluctant position of the council which refused any reform of the vat contribution system. how can we expect our citizens to trust the investments made through the eu budget, if its structure remains as undemocratic and opaque as ever. vat contributions remain to this day unevenly distributed among member states, with some being blessed by rebates, preferential quotas and lump sum payments, while the others are only entitled to carry the burden of these exceptions. therefore, i expect and wish for a thorough review of the own resources system to be finalised by the high level working group by the end of this year, in order to be able to put an end to the current imbalances at the post-electoral revision in 2016.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council regulation on the methods and procedure for making available traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on measures to meet the needs of the treasury (reform) approving the draft council as adapted to take account of the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the commission proposal does not contain any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts with those amendments, the proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing acts without any substantive amendments to them. we invite the council to inform parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by the ep. we also ask the council to consult it again if it intends to substantially amend the text approved by the ep.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the measures to implement the european union's own resources system. we welcome the council's agreement to establish measures for the implementation of the union's own resources system as provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. they argue that, because of austerity measures, member states are reluctant to increase their contributions to the eu budget, despite the undeniable benefits they receive through programmes funded by the eu budget. the only viable solution is to set up a system of direct own resources for the eu. we regret that the council has not been able to make progress on reform of the own resources system on the basis of the legislative proposals put forward by the commission.
in writing. - in the context of the economic crisis and the accompanying unemployment, but also due to the transformation of national labour markets due to technological developments, changing labour needs or career transformation (geographical or cross-sectoral mobility, interruptions and resumes of professional activity), the missions and modes of operation of public employment services have changed. given the commitment of the member states to better coordinate their economic and employment policies within the union, all available means should be mobilised to support this transformation by the union. the european commission's initiative to officialise the already existing network of representatives of these national public employment services so that they can compare, on the basis of precise data, the effectiveness of the measures they have to implement in the labour market in their respective member states is to be welcomed. this cooperation can be enhanced by: including in the objectives a particular focus on combating youth unemployment, promoting sustainable jobs and combating social dumping; involving social partners and national labour administrations and respecting the organisation of competences in the various member states.
in writing. - the high level of unemployment is one of the most important challenges facing european society. there are currently 26 million unemployed in europe, of whom over five million are young people. the adoption of the decision on strengthening cooperation between public employment services (spofm) sends a strong signal that the european union is using all its instruments to counter the effects of unemployment. the decision will improve the functioning of public services in the european union and strengthen the coordination of employment policies at european level. the modernisation of the spofm will also contribute to the development of innovative measures in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. this will facilitate the implementation of labour market projects funded by the european social fund. however, in order to bring the joint work of public employment services as close as possible to the reality of the labour market, it is necessary that authorities at local, regional and national level be involved in the work of the spofm network.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on enhanced cooperation between public employment services (pepes) adopting the ep's position at first reading. a network of fmcss (the 'network') is hereby established at union level for the period from the date of entry into force of this decision to 31 december 2020. the network shall be composed of spofm designated by the member states and the commission. member states with autonomous sub-national mapps shall ensure that they are adequately represented in the specific initiatives of the network. the objective of this decision is to encourage cooperation through the network between member states in the field of employment, in the areas falling under the responsibility of the spofm, in order to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy and the implementation of relevant union policies, thus providing support, inter alia, to: • the most vulnerable social groups, facing high unemployment rates, in particular older workers and young people who are not in a professional capacity and are not following any education or training programme; • decent and sustainable working conditions; • better functioning of eu labour markets.
in writing. - the european union solidarity fund is the clear expression of solidarity with citizens in eu regions affected by disasters. the amendment of the eu solidarity fund regulation creates the necessary conditions for simplifying the rules in force so that aid can be paid more quickly than at present. the union's action must be directed to the benefit of its citizens by improving its response capacity, in particular in the event of disasters having direct consequences for people. i therefore welcome the introduction of the rapid advance payment system, at the request of the member state concerned. this facility will allow local and regional authorities in affected european states to access the fund immediately after natural disasters have occurred. as a member of the committee on regional development, i strongly support the introduction of clearer rules on eligibility in the event of regional disasters. these will simplify the current rules, while helping to speed up the decision-making process and the payment of aid. congratulations to my colleague, mrs. ferragut, on her work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 establishing the european union solidarity fund. under the regulation adopted at first reading, at the request of a member state or a state which is in negotiations with a view to accession to the union, hereinafter referred to as 'eligible state', aid from the fund may be mobilised where, in one or more regions of that eligible state, serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy arise as a result of a major or regional natural disaster that has occurred in the territory of that eligible state or of a neighbouring eligible state. direct damage caused as a direct consequence of a natural disaster shall be considered as part of the damage caused by that natural disaster. for the purposes of this regulation, a 'major natural disaster' means any natural disaster which causes direct damage in an eligible state estimated at either more than eur 3[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]000 in 2011 prices or more than 0,6[nbsp ]% of the gni of that state. the fund may also be mobilised for any natural disaster in an eligible state which is also a major natural disaster in a neighbouring eligible state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european union's participation in the capital increase of the european investment fund (eif). under decision 94/375/ec, the eif was set up in 1994 to 'promote sustainable and balanced development within the community'. following an increase in the eif's subscribed capital in 2007, the authorised capital of the eif amounts to eur 3 billion, divided into 3 000 shares of eur 1 million each, with a paid-up capital ratio of 20%. the union, represented by the commission, participated in the previous increase of the fund's subscribed capital in accordance with decision 2007/247/ec. the decision adopted aims to increase the support from the eif to certain actions which complement the actions undertaken by the member states in favour of enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. in addition to its current participation in the capital of the eif, the union shall subscribe for up to 450 shares, each with a nominal value of eur 1 million. the subscription of shares and the annual payments shall be made in accordance with the terms and conditions to be approved by the eif general assembly. the union shall purchase new shares in the fund over a period of four years starting in 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on fees payable to the european medicines agency for the performance of pharmacovigilance activities in respect of medicinal products for human use. the revenue of the european medicines agency shall consist of a contribution from the union and fees paid by undertakings for obtaining and maintaining union marketing authorisations. this regulation shall apply to fees for pharmacovigilance activities concerning medicinal products for human use authorised in the union pursuant to regulation (ec) no 726/2004 and directive 2001/83/ec and which are levied by the european medicines agency on marketing authorisation holders. this regulation also lays down the union-wide pharmacovigilance activities for which fees are due to the agency, the amounts and modalities of payment of those fees, and the levels of remuneration paid by the agency to rapporteurs and, where appropriate, co-rapporteurs for the services provided. micro-enterprises shall be exempt from any levy provided for under this regulation. the fees provided for in this regulation should be transparent, fair and proportionate to the activities carried out. information on those fees should also be public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision to grant macro-financial assistance to the republic of tunisia. eu-tunisia relations are developing within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). under the eu-tunisia association agreement, which entered into force on 1 march 1998, tunisia completed the elimination of tariffs on industrial products in 2008, becoming the first south mediterranean country to enter a free trade area with the union. bilateral political dialogue and economic cooperation have also continued to develop through the enp action plans, the most recent under discussion covering the period 2013-2017. the union shall make available to tunisia macro-financial assistance of up to eur 300 million to support tunisia's economic stabilisation and reforms. the assistance shall contribute to meeting tunisia's balance of payments needs as identified in the imf programme. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be provided in full to tunisia in the form of loans with a maximum maturity of 15 years. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be provided for a period of two and a half years. a precondition for macro-financial assistance is that tunisia respects genuine democratic mechanisms, including a multi-party parliamentary system and the rule of law, and guarantees respect for human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 302/2009 on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the amendment of regulation (ec) no 302/2009 is necessary in order to implement the recommendation of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat 12-03) in union law in order to ensure the effective conservation of bluefin tuna stocks, to provide legal certainty as regards the fishing seasons concerned and to allow member states to properly define their fishing, capacity and inspection plans and to fulfil their reporting obligations. it is also important to implement in union law iccat recommendation 13-08 on the use of stereoscopic camera systems in the context of caging operations and on the possible establishment of a different start date of the fishing season for purse seiners and trawlers and for trawlers in the eastern atlantic ocean.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting by means of criminal law measures and replacing council framework decision 2000/383/jha. since the introduction of the euro in 2002, counterfeiting of the euro as a currency that is constantly under the spotlight of organised crime groups active in the field of counterfeiting money has generated financial losses of at least eur 500 million. it is in the interest of the union as a whole to oppose and to criminalise any activity that has the potential to jeopardise the authenticity of the euro coin by counterfeiting. the directive adopted at first reading lays down minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the field of counterfeiting the euro and other currencies. the directive also introduces common provisions to strengthen the fight against and the investigation of such offences and to ensure better cooperation against counterfeiting.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the proposal for a directive amending council directive 2001/110/ec on honey. the commission proposal amends the honey directive to clarify that pollen is a natural constituent and not an ingredient and to align the directive with the provisions of article 190 of the lisbon treaty on delegated acts. the s&d group considers that the definition of pollen as a natural component allows the application of the provisions of the gmo regulation to honey to be avoided, to the detriment of beekeepers and consumers, who need to have accurate and complete information about the products they buy or consume. the rapporteur entered into negotiations with the council on the basis of a commission proposal and the agreement reached provides that pollen is a natural component of honey. aware of the cost of additional labelling, the s&d group proposed a compromise amendment which proposes the obligation of additional labelling only for genetically modified pollen. thus, only pollen from areas where gmo contamination is possible would require the necessary testing and labelling. i believe that every consumer has the right to know whether the honey they buy contains genetically modified organisms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amended proposal for a regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). this regulation lays down the union financial measures necessary for the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp); the relevant measures relating to the law of the sea; the sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture and inland fisheries; and the integrated maritime policy (imp). this regulation shall apply to operations carried out within the union. the emff shall contribute to the following objectives: to promote competitive fisheries and aquaculture, to encourage the implementation of the cfp; to promote territorial development conducive to the inclusion and balanced development of fisheries and aquaculture areas; to encourage the development and implementation of union mff in a manner complementary to cohesion policy and the cfp. the resources available for commitments from the emff for the period 2014-2020 under shared management shall be eur 5 749 331 600 in current prices. the european maritime and fisheries fund shall contribute to the europe 2020 strategy and to the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending decision 2005/681/jha establishing the european police college (cepol). pursuant to article 4 of council decision 2005/681/jha, cepol is to have its seat in bramshill, united kingdom. the united kingdom informed cepol that it had unilaterally decided that it no longer wished to host its headquarters on its territory. in view of the obligations of sincere cooperation under the treaty on european union (teu), and in particular the obligations arising from article 4 teu, the union and its member states should provide each other with mutual assistance for the maintenance of cepol's operational activities. to this end, the united kingdom is in particular requested to ensure a smooth transition of cepol to the new location without jeopardising cepol's regular budget. cepol shall have its seat in budapest, hungary.
mr president, throughout this mandate we have frequently addressed various violations of religious freedom and defended religious communities in many countries, especially in our emergency resolutions, which we debate every thursday afternoon. many times, we have had to condemn acts of violence against religious communities, whether it was christians, muslims, jews, buddhists or the baha'i community. members of these communities have been denied fundamental rights simply because they are members of religious communities. we also condemned attempts to close or destroy places of worship in many countries. in this very last session we will discuss, at my suggestion, the persecution of christians in pakistan because of the blasphemy laws. beyond these one-off reactions, however, it is very important to have a coherent strategy of action at european union level to deal with the proliferation of intolerance. that is why i think my colleague marietta giannakou's report is very timely. our reflection on the construction of the union's foreign policy in a world of cultural and religious differences has proved to be a very sensitive issue, which has divided the members of the committee on foreign affairs to a great extent. i believe, however, that the text to be put to the vote will allow us to come together around some fundamental ideas and very clear principles of action. i fully agree with my colleague, giannakou, that cultural and religious differences have been far too often used globally as a pretext for gross human rights violations. they are increasingly a source of polarization, conflict and extremist violence. just look at what is happening right now in nigeria - the bloody bombing in abuja on monday has again claimed many lives. these are in addition to the more than 1[nbsp ]500 people who have lost their lives since the beginning of this year alone as a result of boko haram violence. it's something we can't obviously accept. in our strategy we must be consistent and determined, we must systematically underline that intolerant interpretations of any religion, which allow violence and repression of those of other faiths, are not compatible with the values of the union and with the universalism of human rights.
mr president, this is a very important report and i would like to congratulate all those who contributed to it. i would like to draw attention to two phenomena: first, much closer cooperation is needed between the commission and the councils in the member states which are responsible for monitoring competition issues, because the first rule of a functioning market is the rule of genuine and fair competition. secondly, i would like to say that in the field of utilities, particularly energy and natural gas, some member states where there is no competition have been pushed by the commission and the international monetary fund to liberalize prices, which has only led to an exaggerated increase in these prices in a market which is, in fact, without competition.
mr president, this draft european regulation responds to a real requirement, both of the economy and of the financial market, namely the formation of long-term european investment funds. in europe, banks, which dominate financial markets, are reluctant to engage in long-term investment financing because they mobilise credit resources, usually for the short term. we need such investment funds that allow the mobilisation of resources not only from professional investors but also from small investors who, as a rule, invest their savings, and for these small investors to have the confidence to put their savings in such european investment funds in the long term, they need to have the faith that these funds are managed correctly, apply prudential rules, both in terms of the distribution of the investment portfolio and in terms of how the rules on the avoidance of conflicts of interest are respected. the report contains such prudential rules and i consider it a very good step forward, so i will vote for this report.
mr president, commissioner, like many other colleagues, i am today giving my last speech of this term of office and i am particularly pleased that its subject relates to my first report to the european parliament, namely the regulation on access to the occupation of road haulage operator. i take this opportunity to thank everyone i have worked with: fellow meps, the staff of the committees or delegations in which i have worked, the staff of the political groups, the interpreters, the neighbours and, last but not least, the commission and the council. for the group of the party of european socialists, working conditions in the transport sector are a priority. we welcome the report on the transport market published by the commission on 14 april, but we hope that the commission will come forward with new information and proposals. one of the objectives of the 2009 revision of the road haulage regulation was to eliminate post office box haulage companies. postal box companies are a gateway to social dumping and have been banned since december 2011. yet they still exist. i also believe that the liberalisation of cabotage is imperative to eliminate social dumping and i ask the commission to take a legislative initiative to this end. only in this way will we be able to ensure fair competition in transport and the elimination of social dumping. finally, i would like to ask the commission again what is the state of play in implementing the national electronic registers which were to be interoperable by 31 december 2012. what measures has the commission taken to ensure their implementation and interoperability? i conclude by saying that the new digital tachograph will also contribute to compliance with social legislation in the field of road transport.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i think mr de backer remembers that when we discussed the regulation on the new digital tachograph, we discussed those drivers who come from third countries and obtain residence in the european union. we have given them the opportunity to use the digital tachograph card, but unfortunately we know that there are practices whereby filipino drivers, for example, are employed in lithuania and used by companies in germany. we know that there is still no minimum wage in germany, and this creates major problems in the field of road transport.
mr president, i would only add one more dimension which i would like to strengthen and which has been mentioned, which is that the relationship with japan is a strategic relationship, not only economically and commercially but also now – all the more so – politically, in the current circumstances of the geopolitical shifts of great magnitude which are happening in the international system, particularly in our part of the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council decision on the eu-albania: protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement (accession of croatia). the council decision authorises the commission to open negotiations with albania, on behalf of the european union, its member states and the republic of croatia, with a view to concluding a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of albania to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. the eu-albania stabilisation and association agreement was signed in luxembourg in june 2006 and entered into force in april 2009. in accordance with article 36 (3) of the stabilisation and association agreement, this act ensures that the mutual interests of the european union and albania are respected. the signature and conclusion of the protocol shall be subject to a separate procedure as regards matters falling within the competence of the european atomic energy community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council decision on the agreement with the kingdom of norway on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the council decision refers to article 49 of regulation (eu) no 439/2010, which provides that, in order to fulfil its mission, the european asylum support office should be open to the participation of countries which have concluded agreements with the eu under which they have adopted and apply eu law in the field covered by this regulation, in particular iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland, hereinafter referred to as 'the associated countries'. norway has concluded agreements with the eu under which it has adopted and applies eu law in the field covered by this regulation, in particular the agreement between the european community and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway concerning the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the state responsible for examining a request for asylum lodged in a member state or in iceland or norway. norway will participate fully in the activities of the support office and benefit from support actions by the support office. under this agreement, norway will be present in the support office's management board as an observer without voting rights. norway shall contribute to the support office's revenue by an annual amount calculated on the basis of its gross domestic product (gdp).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council decision on the agreement with the principality of liechtenstein on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the council decision refers to article 49 (1) of regulation (eu) no 439/2010, which provides that, in order to fulfil its mission, the european asylum support office should be open to the participation of countries which have concluded agreements with the eu under which they have adopted and apply eu law in the field covered by this regulation, in particular iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland, hereinafter referred to as 'the associated countries'. liechtenstein has concluded agreements with the eu under which it has adopted and applies eu law in the field covered by this regulation. the principality of liechtenstein will participate fully in the activities of the support office and benefit from its support actions. under this agreement, liechtenstein will be present in the support office's management board as an observer without the right to vote. liechtenstein shall contribute to the support office's revenue by an annual amount calculated on the basis of its gross domestic product (gdp).
in writing. - under the europe 2020 strategy for better competitiveness and employment, long-term financing is an important tool used to put the european economy on a path to steady and sustainable growth. the need has therefore arisen to adopt uniform rules at union level for european long-term funds in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and a high level of investor protection. i agree that complementing bank financing with a wider variety of financing sources that better mobilise capital markets could help to address financing gaps.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds. european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing to a diverse range of infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or long-listed small and medium-sized enterprises that issue equity and debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. by providing funding for such projects, the efsi contributes to the financing of the real economy and the implementation of union policies. as regards demand, eltifs can provide a steady and secure stream of income to pension administrators, insurance companies, foundations, municipalities and other entities facing regular and repeated obligations and pursuing long-term cash flows within well-regulated structures. the regulation adopted at first reading provides for uniform rules on the authorisation, investment policies and operating conditions of eu alternative investment funds (aifs) marketed in the union as european long-term investment funds (eltifs).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2015. the 2015 budgetary procedure will take place in an electoral year at european level, in which the parliament's estimate for the financial year 2015 will be adopted by the current parliament and the final budget will be approved by the new parliament in the autumn. the ceiling for heading v (administration), established by the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, shall be eur 9 076 million for the 2015 budget. the ceiling for the institutions' overall administrative expenditure was set at eur 7 351 million. the secretary-general proposed to continue and further strengthen the four areas of work adopted after consultation of the joint bureau working group and the committee on budgets in 2014, namely strengthening independent scientific advice and control capacity, and improving logistical and local support for members. the ep approved the draft estimate of the 2015 budget at eur 1 794 929 112, corresponding to an overall growth rate of 1.8% compared to the 2014 budget, and agrees to include in it the 0.4% extraordinary compulsory expenditure resulting from the new agreement on the adjustment coefficient for remuneration and pensions.
in writing. - the enforcement of the treaty on the functioning of the european union's provisions on competition at public level is also carried out by national authorities. this directive reaffirms the union acquis on the right to compensation for damage caused by infringements of competition law, in particular as regards capacity and the definition of damage. in order to remedy some of the difficulties in quantifying the damage caused by the breach of antitrust rules, national courts should have the power to establish the existence and estimate the amount of the damage taking into account the evidence submitted by the parties.
in writing. - the damage caused by anti-competitive practices can be huge, amounting to billions of euros each year. an impact study commissioned by the european commission in 2004 showed that the direct costs to consumers and other affected persons range from around €13 billion to over €37 billion annually. the study also found that the enforcement of competition rules through compensation actions is poorly developed in europe and that victims face substantial obstacles when seeking to obtain damages in court for infringements of these rules. the fines imposed by the european commission or national competition authorities do not go back to the injured party, as they have only a sanctioning and preventive purpose, not a remedial function. i support the introduction of a procedure at union level to facilitate the effective implementation of this type of action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on certain rules governing actions for damages under national law for infringements of the competition law of the member states and of the european union which adopts the ep's position at first reading. this directive lays down certain rules necessary to ensure that any person who has suffered damage caused by an infringement of competition law by an undertaking or association of undertakings can effectively exercise his right to claim full compensation from that undertaking or association of undertakings for that damage. it also provides for rules which promote undistorted competition in the internal market and remove obstacles to its proper functioning by ensuring equivalent protection throughout the union for any person who has suffered such damage. the adopted directive also lays down rules for coordinating the enforcement of competition rules by competition authorities and the enforcement of those rules through actions for damages brought before national courts.
in writing. - i voted for the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 on shipments of waste. in order to protect the environment, regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 lays down requirements for shipments of waste both within the union and between member states and third countries. divergences and shortcomings have been identified in the enforcement of the regulation and in the controls carried out by the authorities involved in the controls in the member states. therefore, appropriate planning of waste shipment controls is needed to determine the capacities required to carry out such controls and to effectively prevent illegal shipments. control plans should also be established for the controls carried out in accordance with those provisions. illegal shipments of waste frequently originate from uncontrolled collection, sorting and storage facilities. the systematic checks of shipments of waste should therefore help to identify and address those uncontrolled activities, thereby promoting the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1013/2006. in order to allow member states sufficient preparation time, it is appropriate that the first control plans are adopted by 1 january 2017.
in writing. - i voted for the proposed new psychoactive substance regulation. the increasing number of new psychoactive substances available on the internal market, their increasing diversity, the speed with which they appear on the market, the various risks they may present when consumed by humans, all call for the capacity of public authorities to provide effective solutions to protect public health and safety without obstructing the functioning of the internal market. given the different conditions and circumstances in the member states with regard to psychoactive substances, restrictive measures vary accordingly from one member state to another, which means that economic operators using new psychoactive substances in the production of different products have to fulfil, for the same substance of this kind, different requirements, such as pre-export notification, export authorisation or import and export licences. this regulation should provide for the necessary exceptions to ensure the protection of human and animal health, to facilitate scientific research and development and to allow the use of new psychoactive substances in industry, provided that they are not liable to cause adverse effects and cannot be misused or recovered.
in writing. - i voted for the amendment of council framework decision 2004/757/jha laying down minimum provisions on the constituent elements of criminal offences and penalties applicable in the field of illicit drug trafficking, as regards the definition of the term 'drug'. this directive respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and in particular the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial, the presumption of innocence and the rights of the defence, the right not to be tried or convicted twice for the same criminal offence, the principles of legality and proportionality of criminal offences, the right to access to preventive healthcare and the right to medical treatment. for the purposes of this directive, 'drugs' means any of the following substances: (a) any of the substances covered by the 1961 united nations single convention on narcotic drugs and the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances; (b) any of the substances listed in the annex; (c) any mixture or solution containing one or more of the substances in points (a) and (b); the establishment of minimum common rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the field of drug trafficking should ultimately contribute to the protection of public health and the reduction of the harmful effects of drug trafficking and drug use.
in writing. - i voted for the council decision on the negotiation of the eu-japan strategic partnership agreement. japan has been a strategic partner of the eu since 2003 and the two share a special responsibility for promoting peace, stability and prosperity in a rapidly changing world. the eu and japan already cooperate in a number of areas, such as science and technology, internet security, academic and research cooperation, peaceful uses of nuclear energy, business community contacts and the promotion of direct people-to-people links. we call on the council, the commission and the european external action service to include a broad framework of cooperation in science, technology, business and research to increase the potential for innovation and to cooperate in finding innovative solutions to transport issues. we also call for the promotion of bilateral cultural and academic exchanges, as well as exchanges between young people, direct exchanges between people and sports.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the eu's foreign policy in a world of cultural and religious differences. the eu is founded on the principles of human rights, the rule of law and democracy, principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and has the will and the legal and moral obligation to promote and defend these values in its external relations with all other countries. i voted for paragraph 7 which calls on the institutions and member states to maintain and strengthen their commitment and political will to try to abolish the death penalty worldwide. the eu must promote respect for freedom of expression, freedom of religion or belief, freedom of the press and freedom of access to the media and new information technologies in its external actions, and actively protect and promote digital freedoms. we also call for a consistent eu human rights policy based on common fundamental standards and a constructive, results-oriented approach.
we must firmly and unanimously condemn the aggression of one state against the territorial integrity of another state. that's why we created the united nations after world war ii and a dense network of international organizations to help resolve disputes between states. the events of the last few weeks have disregarded these very principles. on the margins of the international crisis, many are asking whether europe and the united states could have acted differently when maidan protesters took to the streets to demand a radical change in social conditions. if the west hadn't been silent when one of the first acts of the new power was to suspend the language law. i am convinced that the new ukraine needs an example from the european union first and foremost. it must be seen that in europe it is unthinkable that citizens who speak a language other than the majority should be discriminated against in various areas of life. that in the union, by means of an exemplary minority policy, harmonious relations can be established with all national communities. i don't know if ukraine has received these signals from us, but i am quite sure that we still have a lot of work to do in terms of setting an example.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the joint resolution on the pressure exerted by russia on the eastern partnership countries and in particular on the destabilisation of eastern ukraine. i voted for paragraph 9 which underlines the urgent need for russia to engage in constructive dialogue with the current legitimate government of ukraine and by which parliament supports the eu's active involvement in diplomatic efforts to escalate the crisis. i voted for paragraph 23 where parliament encourages ukraine to continue its current political reform efforts, especially with regard to constitutional reform, which should be the subject of broad and deep discussions among all elements of ukrainian society. we welcome the willingness of the government of ukraine to implement its commitments to ensure the representativeness of government structures reflecting regional diversity, to ensure full protection of the rights of persons belonging to national minorities, to align national anti-discrimination legislation with eu standards, to investigate all human rights violations and acts of violence and to combat extremism. i also voted for paragraphs 29, 31 and 32. i voted for amendment no 2 by which parliament recalls that the so-called 'referendum' which took place in the autonomous territorial unit of gagauzia did not respect the constitution of the republic of moldova and was therefore illegal.
in writing. - i voted for the council decision on the eu-vietnam free trade agreement. the commission's mandate for the eu-vietnam fta negotiations is attached to the council's authorisation of 23 april 2007 to open negotiations for an fta with the association of southeast asian nations (asean) countries and follows the approval by the council of a preparatory document setting out the common objectives of both sides of the negotiations, namely the intensification of existing bilateral trade relations. the initial objective was to negotiate an fta with the asean region. over the past 10 years, the eu has maintained a negative trade balance with vietnam, reflected again by the second quarter 2013 figures indicating a total trade volume of eur 13,4 billion. this represents a sharp decrease from the total trade volume in 2012 of eur 23,871 billion, of which eur 18,52 billion in imports from vietnam to the eu and eur 5,351 billion in exports to vietnam from the eu. we call for the establishment of a transparent and effective interstate dispute settlement mechanism and, where appropriate, the inclusion in the free trade agreement of applicable provisions on investor-state dispute settlement to ensure adequate protection of investments and to discourage investors from entering into fanciful claims.
in writing. - since increasing the competitiveness of smes is a horizontal effort, which intersects different policy areas, and taking into account that almost a third of the administrative burden of eu legislation results mainly from disproportionate and inefficient implementation at national level, i believe that it should be considered that these enterprises can create jobs if the appropriate conditions are met, such as access to a skilled workforce and minimisation of administrative burdens.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the measures adopted by the commission following the consultation of the 'top 10' of smes on european regulations. 20.7 million smes account for over 65% of the private sector workforce and smes are among the most innovative enterprises, leading the way in terms of job creation and growth. i voted for amendment no 16, which stresses that simplification of eu regulations should be done in a way that fully respects eu requirements on health and safety at work, the rights of eu workers, and the principles and objectives of eu legislation on the environment, health and consumer protection. i voted against paragraph 21 which argues that in order to reduce the burden of employment legislation, the working time directive should be fundamentally revised, as it is inflexible for micro-enterprises and smes. i also voted against paragraph 22 which recommends that, in order to reduce the burden of health and safety legislation, companies with reduced risk should not be required to carry out written health and safety assessments.
author. - mr president, it is difficult to summarize in two minutes the absolute horror of the human rights situation in north korea. i shall therefore be content to mention a few facts which are more than eloquent. i would first recall that the pyongyang regime runs at least four large concentration camps containing between 80 000 and 120 000 political prisoners. in addition to these, the usual prisons and other forms of short-term detention, so that the total number of north korean political prisoners is estimated to be between 150[nbsp ]000 and 200[nbsp ]000. the united nations commission of inquiry likened the daily horrors of these gulag camps to the atrocities of the totalitarian camps in the second half of the last century. between 2005 and 2012 alone, 510 public executions could be documented, but the real numbers are likely to be much higher. we all remember, on the other hand, the famines that occurred in the 1990s, which caused between 200,000 and 3,000,000 deaths. starvation is systematic, and today, the north korean terror state has arrogated to itself the right to distinguish between citizens who can be kept alive and those who can be dispensed with. more than 200,000 people were abducted from neighboring countries, mainly japan and south korea. forced abortion and infanticide are common practices that target, in the vast majority of cases, north korean women who are forcibly repatriated from china. this is, unfortunately, the picture of north korea today.
in writing. distinguished colleagues, i would like to welcome the energetic debut of the italian presidency of the european union - a presidency that comes at a time when the european project needs a bold push for deeper integration. after years of crisis, we face the risk of perpetuating economic stagnation and chronic unemployment and poverty among more and more citizens. socio-economic difficulties have pushed the eu into a serious identity crisis. for the first time, the anti-european trend is taking on worrying proportions among some of the union's founding states. in these circumstances, the italian presidency's determination obliges us to show active solidarity over the next six months and to take concrete measures to revive economic growth. in this regard, i believe that there is a need, first of all, to create a favourable environment for smes by creating modern financing instruments and improving access to credit at affordable rates, as well as on the public procurement market.
in writing. in the context of the italian presidency's agenda, i would like to draw attention to the issues of innovation and science. in the external dimension, it is necessary to define the priorities of the union's foreign and security policy in the field of scientific research and to develop the instruments for its implementation. i look forward to the presidency's support in promoting horizon 2020 widely so as to enable the widest possible participation and to identify the best innovative ideas at the preparatory stage. it is also important to strengthen scientific centres. in this respect, it is important to promote cooperation between strong centres and weaker ones, which will help to maintain the pace of investment and research while ensuring a sustainable growth of innovation in the eu. it is necessary to ensure coordination of national innovation policies at union level in order to build effectively the common innovation and research potential of the union. science is a key factor in building a modern society. i call on the presidency to give this priority special attention. to strengthen the european research area, we need to invest in modernising and developing science in the european union. i also ask the italian presidency to encourage the member states to invest 3% of their gdp in research and development by 2020, in line with the eu target, which will create some 4 million jobs. however, these investments should not be taken into account in the calculation of the member states' budget deficit ceiling.
in writing. i would like to welcome the prime minister of italy and wish him all the luck in the world in this presidency which is now beginning. it's going to be a complicated presidency, as is the time we're living in. in spain we know this very well and that is why we have had to take decisions, make reforms and ask the spanish people to make a huge effort. today we can say that the effort is worthwhile. i would have liked to hear what the objectives and programme of the italian presidency are, but in any case i urge you to lead the policy of recovery and job creation, especially for young people, which europeans are looking forward to, as president-in-office. this is no time for lamentation or partisan fighting. it is time for all of us to join our efforts to get out of the crisis. there are many other aspects which we shall certainly have occasion to examine in the coming weeks.
in writing. the debate on the programme of the italian presidency of the council for the second part of this year covered many important issues of the european union. however, the subject of the enlargement of the union by the admission of new member states was missing. i know that in some member states of the union, the theme of the election campaigns was to freeze the enlargement of the union during this five-year term. i believe that the enlargement of the union has been a success and the current candidate countries that want to become member states of the union, as well as other countries in europe that want to become candidate countries, must have confidence that the european union remains open to enlargement in this 2014-2019 mandate.
mr president, we agreed on the idea of a debate, but not on the idea of a resolution. and i doubt that we can express ourselves now, in a short text, as the socialist colleague said, and that we can send a clear signal in two days' time, as the representative of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left said.
the legal institution of the european citizens' initiative was established by the treaty of lisbon to enable citizens to participate directly in the shaping of european policies. however, it is very difficult to speak of success when the commission in many cases interprets its powers narrowly. europe's diversity is a value! but they say the european institutions cannot act to protect diversity. if the citizens' initiative on the protection of indigenous national minorities is not a european competence, this means that europe does not hear the voices of more than 40 million citizens, does not take into account their specific situation and reinforces the views that ethnically homogeneous nation states are desirable. many people criticize the union for meddling in too much and not speaking up on the issues that really matter. as the representative of the hungarians in romania, it's my job to convey the message of our community. we attach importance to the european union, we support solidarity between member states, regions and nations, but we also expect europe to pay attention to the problems of traditional national minorities and to find solutions to these problems.
madam president, i would like to stress once again the importance of smes in the european union - the crucial importance of which is well known - but unfortunately in recent years the emphasis has been on developing this sector through measures which have not produced results. smes still have problems accessing finance, public procurement, internationalisation. i know very well the situation of smes in my country, in romania, and in europe, as a former minister in this field, and i know that we need to come up with other concrete measures that will solve both financing and public procurement and internationalisation. and there's another issue that i think has not been properly addressed by the european union: it's access to the european union market for products from non-european countries. we know that we are facing counterfeiting, with a lot of dumping of production by smes in europe. that is why i believe that the commission and the new council and we, the parliament, need to think of measures that solve problems and not create new ones. i am thinking here of course of the unnecessary red tape that hinders the work of smes. that is why i will advocate for e-government, for strengthening security and trust in the digital market, but also for protecting the european union market.
with that, we've closed the list of speakers. before concluding the sitting and making a final announcement, i would like to congratulate our french colleagues on their national day, because we are in strasbourg.
the commission is also considering a proposal for a regulation on the appointment of a new commission president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank all but a few of those who have spoken in this debate. i listened carefully to what was said. in my long political career i have always listened to parliaments, including the european parliament, whose debates and meetings i have followed for many years. so, thank you to everyone who stepped in. i understood that if i had taken into account the whole programme of each party, the approval of the various parliamentary groups would have been greater, but i would have lacked the assent of the assembly as such, which made me want to be - after analysing what everyone else said - as manic as possible. i understand that your parliament will vote by secret ballot. i understand that because mr. farage wouldn't want his constituents to find out that he voted for me. (laughter) so secret ballots are a move, a concession that you make to mr. farage. i wouldn't have done it. i thank mrs le pen for not voting for me. i don't want to have the approval of those who reject, who hate, who exclude. thank you, ma'am, for not voting for me. (applause from the left)
in writing. – the political guidelines for the next european commission presented by mr jean-claude juncker is a solid document. it is focused on the main challenges of the european union. the political guidelines are good answers to these challenges for a new start of europe. however, i cannot agree with mr juncker’s statement that ‘ .. no further enlargement will take place over the next five years.’ this statement is a wrong signal sent to countries like montenegro, the republic of moldova and others which have a dream to join the european union. i hope that the republic of moldova will fulfil the criteria to become at least a candidate country in this parliamentary mandate.
in writing. today, the european parliament voted to appoint jean-claude juncker as president of the new european commission. it is an important moment because, for the first time in the history of the eu, the european parliament elected and not just approved the president of the european commission, following the proposal of the european council, in accordance with the rules laid down by the treaty of lisbon. as a representative of the social democratic group in the ep, i would have liked to be able to vote for a social democratic president of the european commission, but today's vote is the result of the vote of european citizens and is proof of the triumph of european parliamentary democracy. it should also be noted that this vote was not a blank cheque for j. c. juncker, but was based on a serious negotiation of the social democratic group in the ep with mr j. c. juncker, negotiation which, in the programme of the future president of the ec, found the most important social democratic principles and policies: the creation of new jobs and the reduction of unemployment among young people, support for the principle 'for the same work, the same salary', stimulation of investment in infrastructure, etc. as a member of the european parliament, i will be watching closely to see that all these social democratic policies and projects are respected by the new president of the european commission.
in writing. since the spring, i have said that 2014 must be the year of a new beginning for europe. the election campaign has shown us that we need a fresh start. the president of the european commission, together with his team, must regain the citizens' confidence in the idea of european integration. the community method is the way. only by working closely and more sincerely with the ep can this be achieved. of the many priorities that jean-claude juncker has outlined today, i consider three to be urgent: reindustrialisation, investment in infrastructure and jobs for young people. any political program is only as valuable as its implementation. we cannot afford to wait five years and then have only partial success and say, as happened with the lisbon agenda, that we need to reassess the objectives. i believe that the key moment of the new mandate will be the end of 2016, when the mff evaluation will take place. the decision to reduce the value of the cfm for the first time in eu history was wrong. i hope that the next two years of the new mandate, through close cooperation between the commission and the ep, will bring the review of the mff to the eu institutions to empower them to work with member states to create jobs and ensure sustainable growth.
madam president, there are two main questions for which we desperately need a well-articulated answer in the future, bearing in mind the recent past. firstly, we must measure how sincere and real the russian commitment to de-escalating the situation is, in view of the developments in eastern ukraine – regarding which you, mr commissioner, and other colleagues mentioned the real involvement of russia. secondly, we need an immediate solution to the energy security problem. the solution is not to build other pipelines to bring russian gas to europe – as austria and hungary are doing now – but to find different sources and different routes. i hope that the next high representative for foreign affairs in the next commission will not only find the answers to those questions but also build up a more coherent and more articulated strategic approach.
madam president, the last time we discussed the situation in ukraine in this house was three months ago. since then, we've had some very good news. firstly, the election of a president under very good conditions, with free and fair elections despite the difficulties in the east. secondly, the presentation of a 15-point peace plan by the elected president. thirdly, on 27 june, the remaining parties to the association agreement with ukraine were signed. of course, we have some bad news. firstly, the ceasefire plan imposed by ukraine was not respected by the rebels in the east, which led, as we know, to the offensive of the ukrainian army to defend the territorial integrity of the country. there are also people who consider the revocation of the federation council's authorization to use force in ukraine as good news. but we should not be naive and think that vladimir putin has abandoned his plans for ukraine, especially since he has other legal grounds to continue his aggression. let us not be mistaken, it would be a monumental mistake to believe russian propaganda, a very dangerous mistake for the security of europe and for the development of ukraine. i think we have to admit that we are at a critical juncture in this crisis and that ukraine needs our support more than ever. in recent days, both president poroshenko, nato and the us administration have warned that russia continues to supply heavy weapons and equipment and that it still allows separatist militants to enter ukraine freely. so we must think about not letting up the pressure on moscow.
madam president, after the annexation of crimea, which could be used as a launch pad for further military action in the area, eastern ukraine has been transformed into a magnified transnistria whose instability is being used by russia to try both to control kiev and to prevent its efforts to implement the association agreement with the eu. the situation in eastern ukraine is increasingly alarming. it appears that russia is concentrating forces again on the border and has resumed military support to the pro-russian forces. new weapons systems have entered the scene, border clashes provoked by attempts to infiltrate heavy weapons from russia are multiplying, manifestos calling for the liberation of the rest of the ukraine and the reinstatement of socialism are being circulated, the russian tv 1 channel is in the middle of a total propaganda war against ukraine, and the information war against moscow acquires a new dimension every day. in the meantime the eu appears to have considerably reduced its visibility on the diplomatic scene. if we do not properly turn our attention to ukraine now, ukraine faces the risk of becoming an empty shell, a state only in name, and that is not in our interests.
mr president, today's debate is welcome and i welcome the determination of my colleagues in the european parliament and the european commission to do something about the situation in ukraine. i hope that this determination will be translated into concrete action, especially as the situation risks becoming an issue affecting the european path of other eastern partnership countries. it is unacceptable that the territorial integrity of a country in the eastern partnership, a country which has an association agreement with the european union, should be endangered, that its citizens should be threatened. we must use all the means at our disposal to preserve ukraine's territorial integrity and provide political and economic assistance to help it build a state of law and a prosperous economy. i also think we need to have better coordination with our transatlantic partners, with the united states of america, to do something much more concrete for ukraine.
in writing. the ukrainian crisis is becoming increasingly bloody, with a tendency to degenerate into an armed conflict, which cannot be characterised as a civil war, however, given russia's involvement, by sending fighters and weapons. the escalation of tension is particularly affecting civilians, who are being forced to flee in increasing numbers as the fighting continues. the european union cannot accept the unleashing of a humanitarian drama in a country which has just signed an association agreement and whose citizens are paying painfully for their choice. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, based on the principles of the united nations charter and the charter of the united nations. at the gates of donetsk, a legitimate battle is being fought to defend ukraine's sovereignty and to contain the neo-soviet expansionism that is forcing the re-bolshevization of the east and the return of europe to the 20th century of conflict and the violation of citizens' choices and rights. we owe it to ourselves to be more effectively involved in this struggle for the values on which the european union is founded. i propose that the european parliament's resolution include a call to the european council tomorrow to redefine the eu's involvement in defending the integrity of ukraine and the republic of moldova, promoting diplomatic dialogue and providing concrete support to ukraine's efforts for peace and reconstruction.
mr president, very specific questions have been posed to the commissioner. i myself have three questions but very simple ones. first of all, in the transatlantic relationship is the status quo an option? no, i think in the rapidly changing global environment standing still means falling behind, so the status quo is not an option. second: do the wto multilateral trade negotiations represent an alternative? we saw the doha development round stalled, and we see that the bali agenda is endangered. no, i think wto negotiations are no alternative. third: can we allow europe’s food safety, social system, our data protection and cultural diversity to be endangered by the new provisions of the fta? no, and i think it is the role of the european parliament to make sure that the fundamental interests of our citizens are safeguarded, and that ttip, when concluded, will equally serve all europeans.
madam president, i choose to speak in favour of the ttip this afternoon. the ttip is not and should not be just another free trade agreement. it is a historic milestone, as it will create a transatlantic market of opportunities for europe and the us. with the two particular sectors i want to refer to, firstly a common transatlantic approach to the digital economy, ict and innovation will continue driving enormous productivity in our economy, encouraging investment, while our creative and hyper-connected youth will be creating their own opportunities on the market; and secondly, an extended deal on energy trade within the ttip will allow cheaper prices for consumers but also for our industry, making it more competitive on world markets while we will ensure security of supply and therefore our independence. in today’s world we cannot afford to miss the opportunity, and as the proverb says: if you want to go fast, go alone; if you want to go far, go together.
in writing. the conclusion of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership will create the world's largest economic market, while bringing benefits to the union by creating a free trade area, boosting growth, employment and removing excessive regulation and barriers to trade and investment. we must ensure that this political cooperation to promote the transatlantic free trade market will guarantee fair competition in trade between the two sides and ensure a high level of protection for european consumers. i believe that such an agreement must first ensure that eu social, health and environmental standards are respected, introduce synchronisation and simplification of customs procedures and reduce bureaucratic costs.
in writing. – this agreement is not just any agreement and the stakes are high. the ttip will establish the worldʼs largest free trade zone. but it is only up to us to use it as an opportunity to promote fair standards, growth and jobs on both sides of the atlantic and to avoid a risky race to the bottom. the potential benefits of such an agreement are clear to all of us. but there will be sectors in the eu that lose out with output decreasing due to the competitive advantages of us industry. the ttip addresses the existing limitations in bilateral trade between the eu and the us which are hindering its full potential. i agree that we should go ahead. but being in favour is not enough. we have to acknowledge the adjustment costs of such an agreement for certain segments of european industry and labour.
madam president, demography and population growth have been one of the subjects discussed at length in the european parliament, and i believe that one of the solutions we must give to this issue is precisely reconciling work and family life. the european pregnant workers directive allows for the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks with a payment equivalent to the last salary or a guarantee of job retention, which is essential for gender equality and the protection of women's rights. i believe that the withdrawal of this directive is not a solution that would be in line with the realities existing at european level, even if the conditions differ from one member state to another. i believe that the solution that european citizens are looking for is the resumption of negotiations between the council and the commission for an improved directive.
i have asked from the beginning of the debate for the speaking time to be respected. it is the president's responsibility to give the floor in the 'catch the eye' procedure.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. mr president, in 2010 the european parliament gave a very clear signal about the need for a european directive on pregnant workers. our position represents an important step towards gender equality, social progress and economic sustainability. this directive is an instrument for increasing the birth rate, but above all for protecting women during pregnancy and maternity, which are essential for achieving gender equality and protecting women's rights. extending maternity leave to 20 weeks with an allowance equivalent to the last salary or guaranteeing the retention of a job are rights that every woman living in a european country must enjoy. i ask both the commission and the council to resume negotiations immediately so that, at the end of the italian presidency, we have a proposal for an improved directive.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the destruction of syria's chemical weapons in the mediterranean sea area between greece and italy. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the members who have spoken. the debate was certainly an important and welcome debate because we need to inform. we need to inform the honourable members, we need to inform, through this debate and the action that individual governments must also take, the communities involved and also explain all the important security measures that have been taken and also inform about the operations during the whole period of the dismantling process. so from this point of view, it is certainly good that there is this debate, it is good that there is this dialogue between the presidency, representing the high representative, and parliament. there were specific points which merited a more specific answer. first of all, i confirm that this is an operation that is taking place under a un resolution and under the supervision of the un. secondly, why could these operations not be carried out in syria? because because of the conflict, because of the insecurity situation, it was absolutely impossible to take such an important initiative in the midst of the syrian conflict. why hydrolysis at sea, as mr pedicini asked, i think, also invoking history - recent history i would not invoke, because it could lead to different results from those to which you referred. because there was no way to do it on land. there was no possibility of doing it on the ground because no country in the region agreed to conduct its operation on the ground because of the negative reactions of public opinion. it's about the syrian chemical weapons. in the early phase of the syrian conflict, the whole world was calling for action to stop the use of chemical weapons and to work towards action to destroy chemical weapons. i think that the fact that this operation is now under way should be widely appreciated, because at the time international, european and italian public opinion was calling on all governments to intervene precisely to prevent the terrible suffering of the syrian people from being compounded by the unacceptable and odious use of chemical weapons. and this is the operation that is responding to that demand of the citizens, to that demand of public opinion. it has been said that hydrolysis is experimental. it has been used, according to the information i have been given, in the united states for many years for the destruction of their chemical weapons stockpiles. as regards the question of chemical weapons, the material involved will be stored on the cape ray ship and, as one of the honourable members has also mentioned, will be transported to germany and finland to be burned. so there will be no sea or air missions during this operation. in reply to mr grammatikakis and mr pedicini, i would also like to say that all the necessary measures have been taken by the cape ray staff, who have been trained to deal with any problems that may arise during this process. the last point was about hypocrisy in what i said about the european union. but it is not hypocrisy. mr sakorafa is no longer here, but i will answer you anyway. the european union is simply not a party to the chemical weapons convention, it is not a member, it is not even an observer member, and therefore the european union as such does not participate in the executive council which takes the decisions of this organization. as i said, 28 european countries are participating, which are also member states of the european union. in conclusion, madam president, we are convinced that the programme for the destruction of syrian chemical weapons has been a success and must continue because it is a very important commitment that the international community has made and must continue to make, and it is also essential to prevent the reuse of these illegal weapons against the syrian people, to which we must not add any more suffering to that which they are already suffering. we have received, as i said, specific information, which i have shared with you in this debate, as to why this operation is being carried out on the american ship and also how it is being carried out. i can confirm to mr salini in conclusion the peacekeeping nature of this operation. i have no doubt that this operation is a contribution to peace, which has been preceded and which will be followed by many other contributions, because we are talking about a situation in which a real humanitarian tragedy is taking place. madam president, i thank all members again for their contribution to this debate.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. in the previous legislature, our parliament followed closely the issue of the use of chemical weapons by the bashar al-assad regime against its own citizens. in the previous mandate, i also supported the transfer and subsequent destruction of the syrian chemical arsenal under the aegis of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons, pursuant to united nations security council resolution 2118 (2013). i think we need to continue to support the process of destroying syrian chemical weapons. it's run by an international organization whose efforts to control chemical weapons were rewarded in 2013 with the nobel peace prize. i would also like to welcome the involvement of the united states, great britain and germany, which have taken the lead in this process. i am convinced that all necessary precautions will be taken to avoid negative consequences for the environment as well as for the local communities in the mediterranean.
the next item is the report by mr werner langen on the proposal for a council decision on the adoption by lithuania of the euro on 1 january 2015 (com (2014) 0324 - 2014/0170 (nle)) (a8-0001/2014).
i would like to remind you that this procedure actually involves a question to the speaker.
madam president, congratulations on your first time in this office, of leading the work of the european parliament. i congratulate lithuania on its achievement of becoming the nineteenth member state of the euro area. lithuania has made a remarkable effort, has met the convergence criteria and has once again demonstrated that a country, regardless of its level of development, can be competitive as long as its income and expenditure remain in line with productivity developments. lithuania is an example for all other member states which, when they joined the european union, committed themselves to take all necessary measures to meet the convergence criteria and adopt the euro. unfortunately, these commitments are left to the discretion of the member states concerned. i believe that both the council, the european commission and the european parliament should be more insistent that this process be accelerated in all member states which have a duty to meet the convergence criteria.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate lithuania on adopting the euro. contrary to those who thought the euro would disappear, lithuania shows that european citizens want a common european currency. and we, romanians, want a common european currency, we want to be part of the eurozone and we hope that in 2018 we will be part of this area that represents an elite of europe. the euro is the single european currency and we must defend this right of european citizens to economic and financial mobility. the euro only scares those who hope that financial and accounting tricks can solve economic problems and replace sound budgetary and financial management. the european currency is a right of european citizens, but also a symbol of european unity and strength. we need a single monetary policy, the only way we can defend ourselves against economic and monetary attacks by big corporations or other states with hidden interests. we see what is happening now in argentina or bulgaria, we know what happened in the past and we need the euro.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow morning at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, i am surprised that you, as a member of the european parliament, are raising the issue of banning the free movement of people within the european union, but i would like to ask you a question. from what you have said, i do not understand that you have proposed anything concrete for today's topic, namely the increase in youth employment. if you can, tell me a concrete measure that you propose.
madam president, i had to become a member of the european parliament to realise how small a minute is. remarkable, commissioner, the effort, the funds, the intentions to solve this phenomenon, because it is a phenomenon. if it's a phenomenon, it must have some cause. if we don't treat the causes, if we don't become aware of them, the phenomenon can't go away. about the causes, less. sometimes investing in this kind of thing and this phenomenon is like pouring water on the sand. in my view -- and not just mine -- the equation of happiness, of fulfillment in life is the ratio of what you think you can do to what you really know how to do. the question that is always asked between an employer and a young person is: 'what do you know how to do?' that's a very difficult question to answer, young people over old people. unfortunately, the minute is gone, i will say one more thing: of my nephews, who left my country - i am romanian - one of them repairs the teeth of british citizens and does not let him go home for good, and the other is a ship's captain and transports meps and other european citizens from there.
commissioner, we are talking today about one of europe's most serious problems. we all know that finding a job is becoming an increasing challenge for young people in many countries, who do not have the opportunity to put their knowledge into practice and gain professional experience, and it is clear that their present and future are in great danger. i appreciate your efforts, commissioner, but i think we need to look for more concrete results and make reducing youth unemployment and fighting poverty the top priority of both the european institutions and national governments. call on all member states to promote as a priority measures to increase employment among young people so that they have the opportunity to undertake traineeships and benefit from quality job offers after completing their studies. if we fail to reduce the disparities and inequalities between member states, we will never be able to talk about sustainable growth in the european union. i also ask the commission and the council to make reducing youth unemployment a specific objective of the european semester and to propose a set of binding measures to be included in the country recommendations and the national reform programmes.
mr president, youth unemployment is far too high in europe. any measure that can reduce unemployment, that gives young people a chance to do an internship, a practical, is welcome. in this respect, the youth guarantee is useful, but i think we need more than that. an unemployed young person in europe does not want a new unpaid internship, but a stable, well-paid job that gives him a perspective, that allows him to start a family, that allows him to buy a house. the reality is that jobs are created primarily by the private sector: entrepreneurs, smes, small family businesses. i think our duty as politicians is to provide the private sector with an economic framework that they can trust, that they can invest in, a strong, competitive economy. this will generate stable and well-paid jobs in the long run. europe needs reforms. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i invite you to work together over the coming months to implement an ambitious agenda of economic reforms leading to increased competitiveness. only in this way can we win the confidence of investors, create jobs and prevent unemployment. secondly, i want to say this: there are very large discrepancies in the level of youth unemployment between european countries - over 50% in greece, spain, below 10% in germany. i propose, commissioner, that we implement a mechanism at european level for the exchange of good practice between the member states of the european union on measures to prevent and combat youth unemployment. let's see what measures worked in states where unemployment is low and how they can be applied, transferred to states where unemployment is high.
mr president, how can the european union provide jobs for young people has been the question of recent years. beyond statistics, we're talking about individual destinies, about more and more young people who have come to believe that going to school is useless. i think that this will be the great challenge for the union in the coming years: to show that those who go to school will find a job quickly, whether in their home country or in another member state. the youth guarantee, while welcome, is only a partial response to youth unemployment. we need to change the way we think about education at european level and labour mobility. i believe that we can make these two aspects the engines of european development. school and university education should take account of the requirements of the economy across the european union, and young people, instead of being left to go to other continents, should be supported through financial assistance programmes when they find jobs in a union country other than their own. partnerships between schools, universities and the private sector must become a reality everywhere, to give young people access to the kind of education and skills that are in demand in the labour market. such transnational partnerships should also be encouraged. of course, this means more europe, more integration, and we should not be afraid if we want young european citizens to feel that the european union as a whole is home.
in writing. the eu youth unemployment rate reached 22.5% in april 2014 and in some countries exceeded 50%. it is a wake-up call for both the member states and the union. member states must make the most efficient use of the tools made available by the eu: the european social fund, the european union programme for employment and social innovation and the youth guarantee for 2014-2020. on the other hand, member states need to reform standards for education and training for young people and take into account the possibilities for vocational integration according to labour market demands. cooperation with the private sector, the creation of an sme-friendly environment in the eu, which involves ensuring optimal financial and legal conditions for newly established enterprises, are initiatives that must be taken into account consistently. the european commission should implement the youth guarantee as soon as possible and publish a communication in the coming months on how it has achieved this implementation. the eu must deliver on its promises to young people, small businesses and disadvantaged regions, provide the funds needed for them and spend the money efficiently.
in writing. - welcomes the enlargement of the euro area, as the european executive considers that lithuania's progress in fulfilling its obligations on the achievement of economic and monetary union has been met and that lithuania fulfils all the conditions for adopting the euro.
mr president, at the end of 2013 the outstanding payments under cohesion policy for the programmes for the financial period 2007-2013 amounted to 23,4 billion. according to the latest estimates, by adding up the 2014 payment claims, the level of outstanding cohesion payments will increase by 3 billion, reaching an outstanding amount of approximately 26 billion. the situation we face is not new. it started in 2010; the figure was then 5 billion. each year the need for additional payments increased, but each time the council did not recognise the amount of the amounts calculated by the commission and accepted only an insufficient increase. we are faced with a paradox: member states are making payment requests, member states are not willing to cover the necessary amounts, that is, to meet their commitments. there are no amounts higher than the commitments in the mff, there are amounts that were not spent when they were foreseen in the budget; the member states received these amounts back at that time, because you know that at that time the rule was that at the end of the year the unspent amounts were to be returned to the member states' budgets, now the member states have to bring these amounts back to the union budget. parliament asked, if you recall, as a condition of the approval of the 2014-2020 mff, for the adjustment of the outstanding payments and this was not fully achieved. we're still in the middle of a recession. the projects carried out by the member states, for which payments are requested, are projects that have as their theme exactly what is needed in this period: economic development and job creation. if we don't fix this, jobs will be lost. a correction for 2014 is needed to be approved before the 2015 budget is approved in order to avoid the discussions of previous years. i ask the council, if it does not agree to settle these outstanding amounts, to decide which of the invoices should not be paid, to take full responsibility.
mr president, the european budget has reached an unprecedented crisis. today we are close to a structural deficit which risks affecting european policies, all european policies, whether we are talking about education, research, foreign policy or cohesion policies, regardless of political colour, regardless of nationality, regardless of state, and this will affect above all the citizens we represent. i do not see here, unfortunately, the austerity policy imposed by mrs merkel and the political right in many european countries, including in romania, the country i represent. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european centre for vocational training and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training. the european budget, we must say, belongs to all european citizens, it is not a tool used by some, certainly not by those in the east, and we need to talk more to find a common solution to the european budget.
madam president, in recent months we have seen a significant deterioration in the situation in iraq, with violent attacks on iraqi citizens, with refugees, dead and wounded, victims of terrorist acts. unfortunately, the iraqi government has proven incapable of defending its own citizens against the terrorist offensive, so any support that may come from external allies, whether it is the european union, the united states or iraq's neighbouring states, will only have a real impact if iraqi leaders engage responsibly in the process of stabilising the country. at this point, it's hard to overlook that the real problem is the central government, led by prime minister maliki and backed by tehran, which continues a disastrous policy of antagonizing different ethnic and religious groups, a policy that obviously leads to conflict and violence. the european union is determined to make a substantial contribution to the humanitarian effort, to support iraq in its democratization and stabilisation; it is important to show solidarity with the iraqi people and support iraq, but not to forget that history has shown us that military interventionism has often caused more problems than it has solved. we are at an important moment for iraq and for the queen, a moment when it is necessary for iraqi leaders to understand the need to overcome the ethnic and religious differences that divide them and to unite in a common effort for the future of iraq. only national unity can bring peace and stability, a government that can bring together sunni and shia leaders, leaders of all ethnic minorities, all iraqis, who through dialogue can build a strong state in iraq. iraq needs at this moment a new government, a government led by a new prime minister and a government that truly represents the legitimate interests of all iraqis, regardless of ethnicity and religion.
acting president of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 july israel launched operation protective edge in the gaza strip. the israeli reaction followed the intensification of rocket fire from gaza, in turn in reaction to the israeli operation "brother's keeper" aimed at finding the killers of the three israeli teenagers kidnapped in the previous weeks. operation protective edge has already caused the death of over 213 palestinians, mostly civilians, and over 1,400 injured, victims of hundreds of air raids and israeli bombings on the gaza strip and hundreds of rockets fired from gaza into israel. thousands of gaza residents have been displaced and more than 40,000 israeli ground forces have been mobilized along the israel-gaza border. the humanitarian situation in gaza, already very serious before these latest hostilities, is deteriorating by the hour. the un has called for a "humanitarian pause" in the fighting to allow aid to reach the people in need. the european union and all the other leading figures in the international community, including the un and the united states, have come forward to deplore this spiral of violence. the eu expressed its deep concern at the rapid deterioration of the situation and strongly condemned the indiscriminate firing of rockets into israel by militant groups in the gaza strip. the european union deplores the increasing number of civilian casualties in the israeli operation, stressing the paramount importance of the safety and security of all civilians in palestine as well as in israel. we strongly urge all parties to exercise the utmost restraint to avoid further casualties and restore calm. we call on the neighbouring countries to make every effort to bring about an immediate cessation of hostilities. hamas has not accepted the egyptian proposal for a ceasefire but if there is still a chance of agreeing to a truce, the opportunity must not be lost. high representative/vice-president catherine ashton from vienna, where she is leading the negotiations on the iranian nuclear issue, is in constant contact with the parties and encourages a ceasefire. the italian and german foreign ministers are in the territories between israel and palestine right now. in her numerous contacts with secretary of state john kerry and her european counterparts, catherine ashton sought to ensure that the international community, with the european union at its forefront, addressed the immediate needs of the people of gaza. in this extremely worrying context, we continue to believe that more than ever, direct and substantive peace negotiations between israelis and palestinians are needed to find a lasting solution to the conflict. we must put an end to all claims and take account of israel's legitimate security concerns and the situation in gaza. in this process, which we hope will resume soon, it will be important not to lose sight of the fundamental issues and factors behind the recent failure of the us-backed peace talks and the recent wave of violence. let 's just say it like it is . the failure to make the difficult choices necessary to achieve peace is the reason the last round of negotiations failed, which in turn created the vacuum now filled with the violence we are witnessing. as if that were not enough, recent events coincide with dangerous developments throughout the middle east - we discussed this until a few minutes ago - which pose serious threats both to the european union and to its partners and direct neighbours in the region. the eu is convinced that the deteriorating regional situation makes a two-state solution to the conflict more necessary than ever. the eu also believes that the only way to halt the violence and resolve the conflict is an agreement that ends the occupation that began in 1967 and that is in line with the aspirations of both sides. a reality based on a single state would be incompatible with these aspirations. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must convince the israeli and palestinian leaders to take the bold and courageous decisions needed to end the current spiral of violence and to resume negotiations. the european union will do all it can to help achieve this. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, as you know, our group had some reservations about having a resolution to accompany the debate now taking place. we found it difficult to come up with a short and clear text that would bring together all the political groups. finally, we have a text and even if, in the end, only the group of the european people's party (christian democrats), ecr, s&d and the alde group will support the joint text, for having participated in the negotiations, i can see that there is still a fairly broad agreement on the idea of force to respond to the escalation of violence between israel and palestine. the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) believes it is important to recall what has brought us to this crisis, namely the abduction and brutal murder of three young israelis on 12 june, followed by the death of a young palestinian on 2 july. we can only condemn in the strongest terms these outrageous acts and express our sympathy to the families of the victims. in the same way, we are all extremely concerned about the renewed violence that has followed. we call for an immediate end to the attacks that are causing all this suffering. this implies that hamas stops firing rockets at israel from the gaza strip. we have repeatedly stated in the past that israel has the right to defend itself against attacks indiscriminately targeting civilians. all parties must fully respect international humanitarian law. the only way out of the present crisis is obviously not through violence and we support all diplomatic initiatives aimed at de-escalating the conflict through a ceasefire. in this context, the egyptian initiative presented on 14 july is welcome and represents a step in the right direction. and in taking note of israel's acceptance of this proposal, we must insist that hamas accept a cessation of hostilities. finally, i would like to say that despite our differences, we are all united by a common objective, which is to ensure peace and security for israelis and palestinians. the objective we all share is to reach a negotiated settlement on the basis of the two-state solution. to do this, we need credible efforts on both sides with increased support from the european union to bring about the resumption of negotiations for a just and lasting peace in the middle east.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would like to welcome the contribution from the council and ask for your permission to continue in english. i reiterate today the serious concern of my group about the new escalation of violence between israel and hamas and the rising number of palestinian and israeli civilians wounded in the huge logistical centres which have been destroyed due to the attacks. yes, we strongly call for all further targeting of civilian populations to be avoided and for an immediate ceasefire followed by negotiations. the death of children and innocents is simply unacceptable to each and every one of us. the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa) informs us that 55 facilities have been damaged since 1 june 2014. in just the past 24 hours, six unrwa facilities were damaged, five schools in rafah in the southern gaza strip, and one health center in the middle area of gaza. in this incredible context rockets are probably still targeting israel today in an indiscriminate manner and air strikes continue to hit different locations in the gaza strip, and the main and the most devastating question is: how could or should this round of violation be stopped? i do not believe that this war is serving either the israelis or the palestinians but it can serve hamas groups and all other radicals who are fighting to regain their full influence over the gaza strip. i also believe in the israeli government's sincere desire for de-escalation and ceasefire, and for starting the peace negotiations, as they demonstrated yesterday by accepting the ceasefire proposed by egypt. the region is extremely unstable today and confronted with serious unrest. the crisis between israel and gaza is the last thing we need and the most dangerous as it could inflame the entire region in a dramatic context. the repercussions on the palestinian territories and in southern jerusalem, but also in the neighbouring countries, are of serious concern. this is why our role, our european union's role, which should be constant and strong, lies in mediating and calming the tension. unrest in the middle east has lasted for too long and it is time to end it right now. but the european voice is still too shy and too ineffective ... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card answer. – the answer is evident. it is not functioning well because peace is missing, and this is why i reiterate the need for the european union to be an effective, visible and consistent contributor to the peace process and not to assist the process as done by others. it is our fundamental role, an imperative of ours nowadays, to be a broker of peace in the middle east. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – a resolution is good if it can get a majority and is adoptable, and to be adopted we need a majority. this is why we negotiated and this is therefore why the four largest political groups in this house have joined together in a well-balanced, moderate resolution contributing not to inflame but to de-escalate the tension. this is the purpose of our common work. i welcome very much the likelihood that the four major political groups have succeeded in backing a resolution which is to be adopted tomorrow. this is why i welcome very much the contribution of all groups, including the four i mentioned before.
madam president, i would like to welcome the fact that this debate on the crime of aggression is taking place in the first substantive session of the european parliament. it is a very good omen for the new parliament that we are dealing with a subject which is at the heart of our concern for the defence of human rights. the european union has always been a strong supporter of the international criminal court and in the previous mandate we accompanied, through our resolutions, the developments linked to the kampala amendment process, as well as the efforts to strengthen the court and to ensure the universality and integrity of the rome statute. the adoption of the amendments on the definition of the crime of aggression marked a turning point in the evolution of international criminal law by completing the system of protection established by the rome statute. however, in order to activate the court's jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in 2017, a decision by the assembly of states parties will be required after at least 30 states parties have ratified, ideally, the kampala amendments by the end of 2015. so far, only 14 states parties have ratified these amendments, including eight eu member states. we are therefore far from being able to do so and we need joint, coordinated action at european level to promote the ratification of the kampala amendments and their incorporation into national legislation. this is a crucial issue because it is about giving us the means to effectively prevent the unlawful use of force. here again, europe should lead by example in taking decisive action against impunity and in promoting peace through criminal justice.
the first item on the agenda concerns the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
member of the commission. - madam president, we welcome the adoption of parliament’s urgent resolution on the case of meriam yahia ibrahim. like you, we have been dismayed that this young mother could be sentenced to death and flogging on charges of apostasy and adultery. freedom of religion or belief is a universal human right that needs to be protected everywhere and by everyone. moreover, sudan has ratified the relevant un conventions and african union instruments and is thus bound to defend and promote this freedom, as was stressed by mr weidenholzer. there has been an international outcry against the verdict against meriam yahia ibrahim, which contributed in the end to her release on 23 june by an appeals court. the european union and member states have been leading this protest, including with a widely publicised statement by the presidents of the european commission, council and parliament, together with religious leaders on 10 june. the eu and member states have also engaged in intensive quiet diplomacy to secure her release. however, on 24 june we learnt with great concern of meriam’s new arrest, this time on charges of forgery and fraud as she tried to leave the country with south sudanese travel documents. we are following the case closely. she has found refuge in the us embassy in khartoum and we hope that she will be able to resettle in a life in safety with her family as soon as possible. the legal provisions curtailing freedom of religion or belief remain in place in sudan. let us not forget the many sudanese opposition politicians, journalists, human rights defenders and ordinary citizens who are still being held in prison on the grounds of their convictions, often without charges and in dire conditions. therefore, we call on the government of sudan to release these political prisoners and to guarantee the human rights of all its citizens. only this can create the political space which is urgently needed to bring about peace, reconciliation and democratic governance in a country which remains torn apart by violent conflict and in which there are many meriams, all of whom deserve our support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – the recent actions and attitudes of the sudanese authorities toward meriam yahia ibrahim are outrageous and i condemn them. sentencing a pregnant woman to a hundred lashes and eventually to death by hanging unless she converts to islam is a serious breach of human rights and it is absolutely unacceptable. outrageous and appalling is also the reason for this condemnation: ms ibrahim was charged with adultery because of her marriage to a christian man. according to a statement issued by the sudanese embassy in the us, this case is just a legal issue and not a religious or a political one. i disagree. this is torture, discrimination and an alarming violation of the freedom of religion or belief; sudan is obliged to respect civil rights under the un and african union conventions, and under the cotonou agreement. thus, i strongly urge the authorities of sudan to heed the urging of the european union, to exonerate ms ibrahim and to proceed with legal reforms without delay. as such, i join my colleagues in asking sudan to stop applying sharia law to persons who are not of muslim faith and to ensure the protection of every individual's human rights.
the next item is the report of the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 (com (2013) 0147).
madam president, the situation of the 20 al jazeera journalists sentenced by a cairo court to at least seven years in prison on terrorist-related charges stemming from interviews with the muslim brotherhood cannot be tolerated. one of them is peter greste. this australian award-winning journalist went to cairo to do his job but was unjustly arrested and condemned to prison. journalism is a profession that is often risky, but journalism is not a crime. every effort must be made to release immediately the detained journalists. the egyptian authorities must respect their new constitution. democracies cannot be built on the political harassment of journalists and arbitrary detention. i strongly urge the government of egypt to heed the urging of the european union to release the journalists and review their trials.
member of the commission. - madam president, we welcome the adoption of parliament’s urgent resolution on the state of freedom of expression and assembly in egypt and share this house’s concerns. the presidential elections in egypt at the end of may marked an important step in egypt’s constitutional road map, which will be completed with the upcoming parliamentary elections likely to be held this autumn. the eu observed the presidential elections. the team led by mr mrio david, concluded in the preliminary statement that the elections were technically administered in line with international standards. however, let me remind members that the report criticised the overall political environment and found a lack of respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights due to political polarisation. it expressed concerned at the clamp-down by the authority on the muslim brotherhood and on political opposition. the deteriorating human rights situation, including restrictions on the freedom of expression and of assembly is of great concern to us, and we call on the egyptian authorities to ensure universal participation in the upcoming parliamentary elections. if not addressed, this issue will cast yet another shadow on egypt’s transition towards democracy. recent judicial proceedings against many civil society activists, media and supporters of the political opposition have been marked by a lack of respect for due process and by disproportionate sentences, notably on the occasion of the recent mass trials passing death sentences. we have denounced this and have called for the review of these sentences. moreover, we are concerned to see that the death penalty was implemented on 16 and 19 june. it should be recalled that the eu is opposed to capital punishment in all cases, and calls for its abolition. we are gravely concerned at the sentences pronounced against the al jazeera journalists, including eu citizens, as was recalled by mr kelly, as well as those pronounced in absentia against other european journalists, and at the heavy jail sentences against prominent activists. we are closely following these cases through our delegation in egypt. we call on the egyptian authorities to allow media and civil society activists to operate freely. in this respect, i would like to refer to the eu guidelines on freedom of expression adopted last may in which we clearly state that ‘all governments must allow journalists to work in a free and enabling environment in safety and security, without the fear of censorship or restraint’. finally, we worry about the continued detention of human rights activists arrested as they were demonstrating against the protest law. we have repeatedly called on the egyptian authorities to allow peaceful protests. the protest law will need to be amended. we are fully aware of the volatile security situation and have condemned terrorist attacks, but fighting terrorism should not result in measures which de facto violate civil liberties and freedoms. let me conclude by saying that we are monitoring newly-adopted legislation, such as the protest law, and draft legislation, such as the ngo law and counter-terrorism law, with regard to their compliance with human rights. in this respect, the last draft of the ngo law is very worrying as it discriminates against european ngos. the eu stands ready to offer assistance to egypt to bring its legislation in line with its international human rights obligations. egypt, as we all know, is a key neighbour and partner in the region. we shall therefore remain constructively and critically engaged to address all restrictions on human rights, freedom of assembly and freedom of speech. at the same time, we stand by egypt and support its transition towards democracy and economic prosperity.
the debate is closed. the vote shall take place immediately after these debates.
the next item on the agenda is the situation in nigeria - recent attacks by boko haram (rc b8-0016/2014) (2014/2729 ((rsp)).
author. - madam president, just over a year ago we dealt with the atrocities committed by the terrorist group boko haram in nigeria in an emergency resolution. it is clear that things have only got worse since then, and that the armed attacks, suicide bombings, kidnappings and other violent acts perpetrated by this terrorist sect against civilians and government forces have increased and must be condemned in all their gravity. at the same time, we must demand the immediate release of the chibok school girls, whose tragic story has moved the entire international community. finally, i would like to stress that i am very concerned about the proliferation of islamist jihadist groups and their sectarian violence, whether it is boko haram in nigeria, aqim or an-sardine in mali, or al-shabab in somalia, these terrorist groups have become a growing threat to anyone who does not subscribe to their beliefs, and it is our duty to help the countries concerned to combat them.
the debate is closed.
there are many unresolved issues in ukraine. but changing the constitution should ensure the long-term peace of society and the functioning of the country. it is impossible for the amended basic law not to focus on taking into account regional differences, on making the languages in use official and on ensuring the rights of national minorities. i am convinced that a democratic, sovereign and human rights-based ukraine can only succeed in its endeavours if it respects the interests and values of all its citizens, regardless of their nationality and mother tongue - ukrainian, russian, hungarian or romanian. it is therefore important that the constitutional amendment brings about real decentralisation, as greater involvement of local authorities in the life of communities can not only help the unity of the country but also its modernisation. i wish you wisdom and courage to complete this process.
in writing. - the recent air tragedy in eastern ukraine, which resulted in the deaths of nearly 300 innocent civilians, many of them european citizens, once again demonstrates the need for the european union to be more closely involved in the peaceful settlement of the situation in its immediate neighbourhood. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament adopting the resolution on ukraine at its plenary session in strasbourg. it is all the more important to stand in solidarity with our neighbours to the east and support the way out of this crisis, as by signing the association agreement at the end of last month, ukraine has demonstrated not only its attachment to european values but also its unwavering intention to make efforts towards building a genuine democracy. or achieving this is possible only through the existence of a stable political, social and economic foundation, free from the challenges to national security that today, unfortunately, are on the agenda in ukraine. moreover, we see how unchecked armed conflict is causing victims of different nationalities, with effects that are felt internationally. it is also the european union's responsibility to ensure that innocent people are no longer victims of violence and irresponsible acts.
in writing. - this vote comes at a very precise time: ukraine was the first item debated after the vote on the commission president. i believe in a strong, united and coherent european union which is able to address global challenges while protecting the interests of all europeans. this is what i hope to see in the next five years and this is what i want to see in ukraine. the eu, its member states and the g7 partners have expressed their unanimous support for ukraine's sovereignty, territorial integrity and freedom of choice. the association agreement and the clear commitment of the international community constitute an important asset in this delicate transition period to promote economic and political stabilisation and reform in the country. but there can be no peace and stability without an act of responsibility and political maturity on the part of the russian federation through: 1. a clear commitment to the implementation of the peace plan; 2. the cessation of all related military activities; 3. a strong stand against illegally armed groups; and 4. a halt to the flow of weapons and militants across the border. the eu must use its full diplomatic weight in this regard.
youth unemployment has reached alarming levels in some member states, the consequences of which may be beyond our comprehension today. the problems facing young people today will have an impact on demographic trends in the years ahead, employment problems have increased internal migration within the european union, and financing large social welfare systems has become difficult. the eu can only encourage, support and help these processes, and it will not be able to change the employment situation of young people without the authority of the member states. small and medium-sized enterprises are the engines of european economic life. today, a large and general reduction in red tape would be the greatest help that member states could give to these companies, which could thus employ young people more easily and in compliance with the rules.
in writing. - youth unemployment is a major issue that should be of growing concern to every eu member state, given that almost a quarter of young europeans are currently out of work. i voted in favour of the resolution on combating youth unemployment because i am aware of the need to create new jobs, the need to bring together the requirements of employers and the knowledge acquired in school by young people, and to stimulate job-creating investment and entrepreneurship among young people. all of this is an investment in a competitive and prosperous european future to which we can successfully contribute. in concrete terms, there are instruments at european level to prevent and reduce youth unemployment. we need a european framework to encourage temporary employment that could help young people to enter the labour market. increased youth mobility should be extended to programmes targeting unskilled labour. i am convinced that programmes such as the young farmer facility or erasmus for young entrepreneurs can play a multi-faceted role. at the same time, they contribute to employment growth, improve performance and support free enterprise.
in writing. - i believe that in the context of the current economic crisis, education, training and creativity are essential to ensure innovation, productivity and growth in europe. i believe in the importance of the erasmus programme for all and i welcome the european commission's position to encourage the resolution of the problem of discrepancies between member states in terms of educational standards and the full recognition of diplomas throughout the european union.
in writing. - i welcome the commissionʼs initiative for a youth guarantee scheme which aims to reduce the high figures of unemployment among young people. in march 2014, 5 340 million young persons (under 25) were unemployed in the eu-28, i.e. 10.4 %. this worrying percentage proves the necessity of tackling more effectively integration of youth into the labour market. i join my colleagues in calling on the member states to support and promote reforms and mechanisms to actively combat youth unemployment and to provide more opportunities for jobs. the commission has to monitor the implementation of the national youth guarantee plans in each member state in order to strengthen and reaffirm commitments at national and european level to stimulate youth employment. additionally, i echo this resolutionʼs call for the need to reform education and training standards for young people in order to increase their employability and life opportunities. we have a moral responsibility to provide the new generations with support to find their way in the labour market and to work together to combat the damaging effects of the financial crisis on youth employment.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on youth employment because young people, especially those under 25, are the most affected by the effects of the crisis, but they are also the most confident in the european ideal. more than 5 000 young people gathered in strasbourg in may to put their ideas together in a document entitled 'ideas for a better europe'. i am glad that i was able to encourage and support 50 hungarian young people from transylvania to participate in the eye 2014 and in the preparation of this document. they are sounding the alarm that they are a "stopped generation" not only because of the crisis but also because of the huge gap between the educational supply and the demand in the labor market. i believe that the most important priority for the next five years is to find ways to help the millions of young unemployed people to find a job, but also to support the education systems in the member states to match reality. convinced that only by working for young people, you are really working for the future of your community, i collaborate with the hungarian youth organization in transylvania - miért and yepp - the youth organization of the epp, and support their initiatives.
in writing. - the adoption of the resolution on the situation in iraq follows on from previous european parliament positions on this issue and demonstrates that the european union is making a concrete effort to resolve tensions in the region. by signing the partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq in 2012, the european union committed itself to supporting the transition to democracy in iraq, but the rapidly deteriorating political, social and economic situation makes it extremely difficult to achieve this goal, at least in the short term. the fragmented political scene is still unable to put an end to the continuing waves of violence fuelled by the terrorist group islamic state, responsible for kidnappings, rapes, forced marriages and summary executions. that is why it is urgently necessary to form a broadly representative government, based on the results of the parliamentary elections held at the end of april this year. the financial support from the european union for humanitarian assistance to iraq is welcome, but the situation can only be de-escalated if the iraqi authorities join these efforts to a greater extent. the creation of the necessary framework for dialogue in the region will only be possible once the terrorist threat has been removed.
in writing. - i believe that the fight against genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes must be a priority of the external action of the european union and the member states, and i believe that it is important for the union to adopt a common position on the crime of aggression.
in writing. - i join my colleagues in expressing our full support to the work of the international criminal court and to the promotion of peace through criminal justice. the definition of the crime of aggression as stated during the kampala conference in 2010 reflects a compromise made by many states with the aim to ensure a high efficiency of the icc in cases when armed force is used by one state against another state, without the justification of self-defence or without authorization by the security council. these cases are the current reality if we look at the horrific violence in ukraine or moldova. i encourage all the member states to align their national criminal legislation with the kampala amendments' definitions in order to achieve the goal of having the dispositions on the crime of aggression entered into force and in order to have the possibility to hold account the responsible persons. i further urge all nations to put aside political or commercial interests and ratify and implement the amendments. it is thus critical to make every effort possible to ensure that we have the legal framework to condemn such deplorable cases.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure you have stated here that it was an irresponsible decision taken by the commission. i would like you to explain to us what your proposed decision would have been.
madam president, the aggression against ukraine is a very serious threat to peace in europe. it must be understood that this is not a conflict between russia and ukraine, it is an aggression by the russian federation and a threat to all member states, whether they are in the east or the west of the union. unfortunately, i don't think russia is going to stop. republic of moldova, the mouth of the danube may be future targets. military conflict is not a solution. economic and political sanctions are the only weapon that can be used. a firm and common approach by all member states is needed. differences of opinion between member states do not lead to a resolution of the situation. although sanctions such as those in the agricultural sector also have negative effects on the union economy, i am convinced that the union has the capacity to minimise such effects and to take the necessary measures, both offsetting and targeting other markets. the new common agricultural policy has the necessary budgetary and legal instruments to support producers. i would also like to thank the commissioner for the agricultural policy and for the measures taken very quickly. it is important that the union takes joint decisions, which do not depend on individual interests but on the interests of the community, and which lead to a solution of the situation as quickly as possible.
commissioner, congratulations on the way you have handled the difficult issue with russia, but i would like to raise the question of the real impact of the russian embargo on food products from the european union and in this context, the question of compensation and how it will be calculated and paid must obviously be discussed. not only was the inability to deliver these goods to russia a loss, but also a large number of orders were cancelled on the intra-community market. in effect, the european foodstuffs rejected by russia and left in europe saturated the internal markets and made it impossible to conduct normal trade as had been the case in previous years. for example, a romanian producer that traditionally sold on the german market finds this year a market that is oversaturated, as do other european markets. as a result, huge stocks have built up in warehouses, and the goods are spoiled. in fact, romanian producers have lost half of their harvest so far. if other countries lost the russian market, romania lost the markets to which food destined for russia was redirected. we can't think in simplistic terms. we have to accept that all the states lost because the markets were upset. therefore, any aid granted must take into account this aspect of the crisis: the blocking of intra-community agricultural and food trade and not just actual sales to russia. that is why, commissioner, i am asking for a point of view on this matter.
mr president, the european union is and must continue to be a beacon of economic and democratic development in the world. to do this, europe must continue to offer prospects for integration and cooperation with all its neighbours, both to the south and to the east. coming from a former communist country that has gone through a difficult transition, i can tell you that it is absolutely necessary for the democratization and development of these countries that we keep our borders open, especially for those who come from the younger generation. only through continued cooperation and trade can we lead these countries in the right direction, but this does not mean that we have to compromise our own principles and we have to continue to work to enforce them, because open doors also mean that these countries agree to respect our values. i also think it is very important that the commission, the european union and the member states involve the eastern countries more in this cooperation in the future. our experience can be a useful element in building european union-wide cooperation with the countries of the south, because the countries of the east also have experience that can help in this direction.
mr. president, i've asked to speak to sign a recent statement by prime minister victor ponta. i quote: "the effects on romanian society of the ten-year regime of traian basescu are quite similar to those of the nazi regime in germany". i'm addressing my socialist colleagues, the political family of the romanian prime minister. do any of you agree with such a statement? can a democracy in the european union be compared to a totalitarian regime? do you think that criticizing an opponent, liberal or conservative, can go as far as trivializing the crimes of the nazi regime? is the crisis europe is going through synonymous with the holocaust? do you think victor ponta represents a socialist sensibility? if your answer, dear socialist colleagues, is 'no', you'd better say it publicly, because prime minister ponta wants to be president ponta in two months. you can't stop him, only romanian voters can. but you can explain the rules of democratic confrontation.
blue-card question. – sir, in your considered opinion, which is better: to have russian soldiers fighting a war on the territory of ukraine, or to have nato troops exercising in response to that on the territory of ukraine?
mr. president, today is a historic day for our relationship with ukraine. we ratify the association agreement with this country. when i vote, i will keep in mind that for bringing their country closer to europe, some ukrainians have given their lives. we would sully their memory if we did not support the full implementation of the agreement. in the context of the crisis in ukraine, relations with russia are a real test for the union's foreign policy. unfortunately, we're a long way from passing the test. let's just think about what's been going on lately. ten days ago, it was decided to strengthen sanctions against russia, so that, immediately after, more member countries delayed the implementation of the decision. last week we decided to simultaneously ratify the association agreement, but on friday we learned that its implementation will be delayed due to russian blackmail. for the european citizens we represent, the whole process is incomprehensible. they want, as the recent gmf poll shows, ukraine's rapprochement with europe and are for tough sanctions against russia. those expectations are misplaced. europe has failed to respond consistently to the greatest threat to its security since the fall of the iron curtain. moscow was our strategic partner; it's not anymore at this point. i know it's hard to take this position, but we have to do it, to really represent a smart policy in relation to russia.
mr president, there was a marked asymmetry between the unlawful actions of putin’s russia in ukraine and the eu’s response, both militarily – see the hybrid war being waged in ukraine – but also politically. putin’s russia has imposed on us again, trying to achieve the strategic objective of keeping control over ukraine through a series of well-calculated tactical moves in an attempt to prevent a strategic response on our part. we accommodated that game because, willingly or not, we lost sight of the big picture in an attempt to salvage a very lucrative relationship with a key commercial partner, ignoring the fact that putin’s russia long since ceased to see us similarly. the eu should therefore salute tactical moves like the ceasefire agreed in minsk on 5 september, while remaining aware of putin’s russia’s strategic design and its implications for its eastern members who have been strategically reassured by nato at the last summit, a fact which should be mentioned. the eu should do so aware that the wave of violent deaths, the wave of violent change of borders initiated by putin’s russia in the east, may meet a similar peaceful wave initiated in the west should scotland decide to break away.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, today you are going to ratify the association agreement with ukraine. this is an historical fact but i think it is also the beginning of a process, the process of anchoring ukraine in a democratic process, establishing the rule of law in that country, helping the ukrainians to ban corruption and bringing them economic prosperity, and also contributing to their sovereignty, their sovereignty which is presently under pressure from russia. the commission, the present one and also the next one, will follow up this process very closely. it will follow it very closely with respect to the agreement that we reached on friday and, for example, if russia is not respecting the conditions of the postponement of the provisional application of the agreement by imposing trade measures on ukraine, we will propose to the council to change their decision on provisional application. we will look very clearly into the political process, making sure that we do not end up with a ukraine which is constantly destabilised by the establishment of a new frozen conflict in the east of the country. and we will make sure that the necessary financial help, political help, economic help is given to ukraine so that they can develop towards sovereignty, democracy and independence.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i am also speaking a little bit on my own behalf. over the past year we have witnessed how the ukrainian people have struggled for freedom, democracy and the rule of law, values at the core of the european union. europe stands with countries willing to engage on this path, and this is what our relationship with ukraine is all about. we want to support ukraine to become a more democratic, prosperous and rule-governed country. ukraine deserves the same opportunities that were afforded to my country and other countries in eastern europe after 1989. this was precisely the aim of our association agreement on which negotiations have been taking place for more than five years and which you are about to ratify. honourable members, ukrainians count on your clear support in the vote later this morning. let us send them a strong signal from strasbourg to kiev.
in writing. this crisis is political in nature, so it is unacceptable that agricultural producers are among the most affected by the political relations of the european union with the russian federation. i believe that not only must community support measures for fruit and vegetable producers be supported, since they lose impressive sums every day, but also that encouraging consumers to consume these products more domestically can be a short- and long-term solution. one solution may also be to support producers and facilitate access to already open extra-european markets - such as china - and agree to open up to canadian and us markets. i am optimistic that a balance will be struck between political sanctions against the russian federation and the protection of the interests of agricultural producers by the european union.
in writing. today in strasbourg, the european parliament voted by a majority to approve the eu-ukraine association agreement, including the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta). it was a historic moment, as at the same time the agreement was ratified by the ukrainian parliament. the agreement implies a political association and liberalised trade. the political component brings ukraine one step closer to the eu, while the economic component provides mutual, free market access, substantially integrating the two parties' markets, abolishing import duties and prohibiting other trade restrictions. as a member of the european parliament, on behalf of romania, ukraine's neighbour, i would like to underline the importance of this agreement, which is a clear sign of the eu's solidarity and appreciation for the ukrainian people in their struggle for democracy, for a prosperous future in a country where the principles of democracy are respected. ukraine needs good neighbourly relations with both western and eastern europe. following the vote in the european parliament and in ukraine, the agreement will be applied provisionally, but the exact date will be confirmed by the council. the agreement must be ratified by all 28 member states to enter into force.
in writing. the european parliament and the verkhovna rada in kiev today simultaneously approve the eu-ukraine association agreement. if at the beginning of last week, this political gesture was viewed with confidence, today it is overshadowed by the decision to postpone the implementation of the free trade agreement between kiev and the eu. we must avoid the festiveness of simultaneous ratification of the agreement because internal pressures in ukraine, but also external ones, risk turning the association agreement into a drawer document, unenforced or unenforceable. the ep and the eu institutions must give priority to the implementation of the association agreement, in particular its trade component. twenty-five years after the fall of the iron curtain, we might think that europe has finally left behind the experience of totalitarian regimes, the lack of democracy and respect for international treaties, but the realities in the east of the continent prove the opposite. that is why i believe that there is a need for more consistency and coherence in the eu and member states' policy towards ukraine in the sanctions policies applied to the russian federation, in strengthening the eu-nato relationship and for better coordination with the measures of the recent north atlantic summit. our aim is peace and stability in the region and maintaining the level of ambition of the eastern partnership objective.
in writing. - the signing of the agreement creates a comprehensive political association and economic integration between the eu and ukraine and provides mutual free market access, providing a clear and strong signal of support for ukraine's european path. i support ukraine's efforts in the process of democratisation to preserve its territorial integrity and at the same time i believe that we must provide them with economic and political assistance to build a state of law and a prosperous economy.
in writing. – the simultaneous vote of the european parliament and the verkhovna rada in favour of the association agreement and deep and comprehensive free trade area represents a milestone not only in the relations between the eu and ukraine but also a strong and positive signal to the next country in line, moldova. the ratification acknowledges the important reform efforts and ambitions of the ukrainian authorities for democracy, stability and prosperity as well as the legitimate aspirations of its people for even closer cooperation with the union. the agreement signed by ukraine and moldova is not an end in itself. it constitutes the starting point of a new framework within which to advance and deepen relations even further; one more building block of a process which will foster enhanced political association and economic integration bringing these two countries closer to the eu while also delivering concrete benefits to citizens and responding effectively to their demands and their needs. today i voted yes to recognise the tremendous efforts made by the ukrainian people, to send a clear and encouraging message to moldova and to reiterate that the eu and this house stand ready to provide all the support needed on this crucial path.
in writing. - i voted for the association agreement with ukraine because i believe that the european union must remain open to both the countries of the east and the south. ukraine and especially ukrainian citizens, regardless of nationality or ethnicity, have the right to a european path and i hope that in this regard romania will always be a support in achieving this ideal. i believe that the purpose of the european union is to show the whole world that europe can be a place of peace, economic development and democracy, and i invite all european states to follow this path, however difficult it may be. through this association agreement, ukraine has new development prospects which will certainly enable it to achieve its objectives and establish a peaceful relationship with its neighbours. the association with ukraine brings to the common european area a number of values and traditions which have marked european history and are elements of european culture.
in writing. - the vote today by both the european parliament and the ukrainian parliament is a very important signal for russia. europe is stronger and is showing the russian federation that prosperity for its citizens is achieved through cooperation and peace, not through aggression and conflict. the agreement has already been ratified by six of the 28 member states. this process needs to be completed everywhere as soon as possible in order to block the rise of russia, which still represents a permanent and imminent danger for all eu countries. the european parliament today virtually signed off on ukraine's accession to the eu as soon as possible and encouraged it to continue on the european path it has chosen and for which many have unfortunately paid with their lives. i am confident that ukraine will appreciate europe's solidarity and will make every effort to reform where needed.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-ukraine association agreement and welcome the simultaneous ratification of the agreement by the european parliament and the ukrainian parliament in kiev. taking into account the close historical relations between the eu and ukraine, as well as the current political situation, we support the desire to strengthen and extend relations in an ambitious and innovative way through this association agreement. the main object of the agreement is to accelerate political and economic relations between ukraine and the eu, as well as ukraine's gradual access to parts of the eu internal market, including through the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area. the overall objectives of the association are to promote a progressive rapprochement between the two parties on the basis of common values; to intensify political dialogue; to promote, maintain and strengthen peace and stability both regionally and internationally; to create conditions for improved economic and trade relations, with the ultimate objective of ukraine's gradual access to parts of the eu internal market. the agreement will be applied provisionally, but the date will be confirmed by the council. the agreement must be ratified by all 28 member states to enter into force.
the cutting of payment appropriations has become a structural problem, which threatens to create an impossible budgetary situation at the end of this framework programme, if current trends are not corrected. if the commission were to receive the necessary level of payment appropriations for horizon 2020 in the coming years, then the payment appropriations for research and technological development would be eur 7 billion. unfortunately, given the limited budget that the directorates-general for research and development face each year, the estimated budget required for the r & d part will be around 16 billion, nine billion more than normal. in practice, 20% of the budget for horizon 2020 is deferred to the next mff. in order to meet the ceiling in the mff, the commission significantly reduced the budgetary request for 2014 from horizon 2020 and the council introduced further reductions. to cope with this situation, all directorates-general implementing r & d programmes have introduced important measures. the level of project funding has been reduced and in a number of cases project calls and deadlines have been postponed to move more payments to 2015. for 2015, the draft budget has already been reduced to the minimum. the commission would be able to cover the outstanding payment obligations only with the above measures. however, in july the council proposed a further cut to the 2015 budget of a further eur 1 billion for the entire research budget. if this reduction is adopted, the r&d directorates-general will no longer be able to meet their contractual obligations regarding payments on time, and in any event, their future obligations. as already mentioned above, if we continue to push payments for the next few years, the situation will worsen.
europe's main problem is to maintain its global competitiveness. this desire cannot be achieved without the necessary financial resources. a reduction in funding for research and innovation is not just a few cuts, as the council has noted. there are cuts that lead to job losses and a decrease in the role played by the council, but also by the governments represented on the council at the global research level. we have to understand that the decline of these funds will not only affect us now, but for years to come and for generations to come. horizon 2020 is a key project for what we want the european union to look like in 2020. in doing so, researchers and innovation will bypass europe, and our projects, the projects that could have made our continent a leader in innovation, will disappear. it is important that we keep these amounts for this project, but at the same time i ask the commission and the council to make a concrete and transparent assessment of the amounts allocated and the projects financed.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have listened very carefully to what the members of the house have had to say in the course of this debate, and you will not be surprised to hear that i agree with many of the remarks that you have made. the structural shortage of payments which affects horizon 2020 should be of concern to all of us, and i definitely hear that concern here today. i am heartened by all of your comments. i have also taken good note of the position of the committee on industry, research and energy on the 2015 eu budget as they expressed it in their vote on 2 september 2014. it is appropriate that, in the week when we meet and have this discussion, the world university rankings have just been published. these show that we have two european union universities joint second in the world ranking: cambridge and imperial college. both institutions benefit substantially from eu research funding. when we talked about horizon 2020 and putting the programme together, we worked with the committee on industry, research and energy to ensure that it meant exactly what mrs mcguiness talked about: collaboration, getting rid of duplication, and ensuring that the best of european researchers work together with companies, the private sector, smes to ensure that we get this synergy going and that we ensure european subsidiarity. companies like jaguar land rover which also benefit and are present – very present – in the framework programmes were very supportive of what we were trying to do in relation to simplification and other elements of horizon 2020. we need the budget that the commission has asked for in order that we can roll out horizon 2020. i count, therefore, on the continued active support of the whole parliament in addressing the payment shortage issue. for that reason, i would repeat once again my call at the beginning of this debate for adoption, without modification, of the commission’s proposal for draft amending budget no 3 to the 2014 budget and of course the draft eu budget for 2015. if you would permit a last word, madam president, in what i expect to be the final time that i get the opportunity to address the plenary session before leaving office., i can only say that it has been a great honour, a privilege and indeed a pleasure to work with all of you in this parliament during my mandate as european commissioner for research, innovation and science. i am confident that, with the support and collaboration of my successor, you will continue in this parliament to be champions of the research and innovation agenda throughout this parliamentary term. tá mé thar a bheith buíoch a uachtaráin as ucht na ndíospóireachtaí dearfacha a bhí agam anseo sa bparlaimint féin agus le feisirí na parlaiminte i réimse polasaithe a bhí faoi mo chúram: taighde, nuáil agus eolaíocht. guím rath ar bhur gcuid oibre agus guím rath ar an bhfear atá ag teacht mar chomharba orm agus tá súil agam go leanfaidh sé leis an gcomhoibriú dlúth a bhí idir an coimisiún agus an pharlaimint.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too have listened carefully to all the speeches in this debate and, by focusing on the specific aspect of the horizon 2020 programme, i would like to emphasize once again the centrality of this subject, which will certainly be useful in the further budget negotiations. i think it is important to stress, however, that this council position cannot be described as a cutting position. it is a position which, as i have already mentioned in the broad sense of the budget, leads to a consolidation of positions on certain expenditure headings. this is the case, for example, of heading 1 (b) on cohesion, for which the council's position has determined that there are no proposals for reductions in commitments and only 2 200 million in payments, out of a total of over 51 billion, and it is a budget in which other expenditure headings, starting with the one we are dealing with in this debate, are nevertheless confirmed by the council's position as showing a significant increase compared with the previous year. it is a fact that a comparison must necessarily be made between the passage of the approval of a new budget and the last one that has been approved, a situation which, as i said before, also sees the council adopting a position which is not only not at all worse, but significantly better than the 2014 budget currently in force, but is also absolutely suitable to give confirmation with regard to what is currently under discussion for 2014, concerning the commission's expectations, so i am talking about amendments on which the council will soon be expressing its opinion. that said, i would like to thank parliament and all the members who have spoken for their contributions and i am sure that our presidency, just as it has succeeded in finding a summary, not trivial, at this historic stage in the council, will also succeed in working alongside parliament and the commission to get to the bottom of the budget negotiations.
in writing. horizon 2020 means research and innovation, economic development and, by implication, job creation. unfortunately, in romania only 2% of the amounts allocated to the previous framework programme for research and innovation (fp7) could be accessed in the period 2007-2013. however, there are many bottom-up initiatives for which horizon 2020 is a real opportunity. universities, research centres, it clusters are just a few examples of entities in their home region that have started innovative projects and could benefit fully from funding under the research and innovation programmes. a technology cluster in cluj-napoca, started with the support of the right-wing government, has brought together 32 it firms under one umbrella, launching projects worth €500 million with the potential to employ 20,000 people over the next 15 years. currently, the revenue generated amounts to eur 100 million, of which over eur 85 million comes from exports. i regret that the council representatives do not understand the importance of supporting such initiatives and i propose drastic cuts in payments for research and innovation. i ask the council, together with the commission, to find solutions to avoid massive cuts in this programme.
in writing. horizon 2020 is a project for the future. this is not just about the future of the union and the member states, but also about the future of the younger generations who must contribute to the continuation of the european project. investment is the priority and all partners - the eu and the member states - must cooperate so that investment in research and innovation contributes to the union's objectives in this area and, by implication, to job growth. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the financial year in question to cover expenditure on the implementation of the budget. it is desirable that the european executive, together with the member states, find solutions to make such situations less frequent or even to avoid them, and that in cases where a number of funds are not used, there is the possibility of reallocating them to investments in research and innovation.
in writing. the payment deficit in the eu budget is increasing from year to year. major projects with european funding cannot be completed. this comes as most european leaders are talking about the need for more investment to create jobs and boost growth. i therefore believe that it is the duty of the governments of the member states to finance this shortfall without delay and to stop transferring bad national habits to the european union, and to stop approving investment programmes and other actions without secure funding.
thank you, madam president. the efficient digital single market cannot exist without reliable and high-speed infrastructures. a functioning digital single market needs connected european citizens everywhere in europe, but unfortunately the reality shows that europe has lagged behind in the development of 4g networks. unfortunately, according to the commission's latest high-speed broadband data, only a small proportion of european households have a subscription above 100 mbps. i would remind you that the digital agenda 2020 targets are 30 mbps for all citizens of the european union and that at least 50% of european households have internet connections above 100 mbps by 2020. what can the union do to connect all its citizens, wherever they live, so that we have a true digital society? as regards the ongoing negotiations, i would like to ask the commission what timetable it envisages for the completion of the telecoms package, as the council is still very divided. i would stress that the s&d group will firmly defend the european parliament's first reading position, particularly on roaming, consumer protection and net neutrality. even if member states are very reluctant, increased harmonisation of spectrum, combined with the application of common principles for spectrum rights within the european union, is a key remedy to address the problem of unpredictability in spectrum availability. this would allow for innovative uses of wireless broadband while protecting transmission times and preventing interference. on 5g: what is the current state of 5g development and in particular of the 5g public-private partnership launched by the commission to provide solutions, architectures, technologies, standards for next generation communications infrastructures in the last decade? what can the european union do to avoid 4g errors and delays in europe?
mr president, the completion of the digital single market means more growth and more jobs for the people of europe without putting more debt on the shoulder of the people of europe. therefore, it is high time to address the existing barriers that hinder the development of a digital single market and unleash the potential of our digital products and services. commissioner, you have rightly pointed to the impressive potential gdp increase coming from the digital single market in europe, but the question is: why were nokia and ericsson pioneers of the mobile era which then lost their supremacy to apple and samsung over the past 15 years? twenty-eight national digital markets regulated at national level are a competitive disadvantage and a considerable burden for investors and consumers in europe. we cannot afford fragmented regulation if we want to unleash the potential of our digital products and services. we have to remove the remaining fiscal and legal barriers. we need european regulators, pan-european operators and a truly europe market. we also need an integrated online and mobile payments market. it is also high time to have fast fibre european networks in every household in europe. a slow internet connection is a competitive disadvantage for a company, and we see that especially in rural areas. we should set ambitious targets and respect them. we should aim to connect most european households, even in rural areas, with 100 megabytes of internet connections by 2020. my last point: we should also push forward with the digitalisation of the public sector. supply and demand of public services should meet online. too often it is human interference which is a source of imperfection and even corruption in delivering high-quality public services to the people of europe.
mr president, while i am very pleased to see that the digital single market has been a top priority for the outgoing commission, as it is for president juncker’s new team, we do need an online market flexible enough for businesses to grow and secure enough for citizens to make use of it. cross-border purchases are still rare in europe. standards for electronic signatures and contracts still vary from one member state to another. corporate legislation is far from being harmonised, while the data protection regulation is nowhere near implementation. too many barriers hamper companies’ investment in the use of ict as well as cross-border and internet-based economic activity. we want to encourage innovative entrepreneurship among our youth. we all want to see a digital market where goods and services flow freely among member states, where competition drives knowledge forward and prices down, but that requires a shift in approach from a national market mindset towards a european one. if we want a pan-european digital market, we need investment in infrastructure, and therefore we need to provide the appropriate regulatory framework and stability for electronic communication providers. we should also take a closer look at our competition rules. we know what the hurdles are and what we want to do. we therefore expect the commission to define a concrete action plan with clear policy targets and a viable timetable. we must also understand that the digital single market is not something we politicians are going to build. we must always involve and consult all the relevant stakeholders. i am thankful to the outgoing commission for its work and i very much look forward to working with the new commission to make the digital single market a reality.
in writing. according to a study by the european parliament, the creation of a digital single market would generate €260 billion at european level. this could represent thousands of new jobs both horizontally and vertically, considering that the internet creates five jobs for every two jobs lost. it is important, however, to set out as clearly as possible the priorities for investing european funds in the coming years and actions to make their use more efficient at european level. it should be borne in mind that europe is part of a highly competitive global economy, including in the digital sector, which is also constantly evolving and very fast, and some member states need support to close the infrastructure gap. in this context, one of the keys to the successful unification or completion of the digital single market in the european union is the establishment of strong legislative and administrative safeguards to boost citizens' and business confidence in the digital economy, including through a legal framework for strong data protection, but also increasing the participation rate of small and medium-sized enterprises in e-commerce to 50%.
in writing. the eu-canada summit in ottawa will in a few days conclude a long process of negotiating one of the most ambitious economic and trade partnership agreements. relevant to the scope of the eu-canada free trade agreement is the estimate that the implementation of the agreement will result in an increase in bilateral trade of eur 25 billion, given that the current value of bilateral trade in goods and services is eur 85 billion. the eu's gdp would increase by eur 11.6 billion annually as a result of increased exports and mutual investment, with the elimination of customs, industrial and agricultural duties, non-tariff barriers, by ensuring access of suppliers to public markets, liberalisation of trade in services, mutual recognition of qualifications and specific rules in key sectors. i support the euro-canadian partnership for the premises it offers for economic dynamism, but also because it is based on a solid foundation of common values. the exclusion of discrimination is one of them, which is why i ask for the inclusion in the agreement of the firm commitment to eliminate visas already imposed by the canadian side on romanian citizens and from other new eu member states, in accordance with the european parliament resolution of september 2013 on the introduction of the visa reciprocity clause.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure sir, i have heard you describe a europe that you do not like. the responsibility for europe lies with us all: the european parliament, the commission, the council. my question is, what is the proposal? because criticizing is the easiest. i didn't hear a solution.
member of the commission. - madam president, first of all i would like to thank parliament for this very important debate and i also want to thank those who expressed some personal messages about my work and the commission’s work in this area. it is the duty of the commission to inform parliament about every step which is taken in the area of youth employment. i will be brief because of the shortage of time but i would like to respond to some of the key points of today’s discussion. first of all i would like to clarify very clearly that the youth guarantee is a reform. it is about a reform agenda; it is about reforming vocational training; it is about reforming, if necessary, how the public employment services work in various eu member states because it is public action that is needed to help young people who might be looking for a job or who might not even be registered as unemployed in many cases. obviously the purpose is that young people gain skills that are relevant to the labour market and information and experience which will help them in their future careers. let me also clarify that the youth guarantee is not a one-size-fits-all project. it allows for a lot of flexibility – for example integrating measures to boost entrepreneurship; it allows for demand-side measures but also supply-side investment; and it calls for an innovative approach at member state level and also within regions. concerning current trends, i think it is clear – and clear too from the discussion – that recently unemployment, including youth unemployment, has been falling faster outside the euro area than inside the euro area. that just highlights how important the macroeconomic background is in making progress. nevertheless in those countries where there has been progress in reducing the youth unemployment rate, i would like to underline three important criteria which also need to be observed at the same time. one of them is the quality of the new jobs and the new employment. the second one is outreach to their needs because it is not enough just to reduce the number of registered unemployed; the youth guarantee is also about reaching out to those who are not in education, employment or educational training. and the third, to monitor something very important in our scheme – and it is actually uniform – namely the four-month deadline, the actual guarantee that young people can count on this safety net. another observation concerning current trends is that there is indeed no conflict between labour mobility and reducing youth unemployment. countries that have either been performing well or making progress in the recent period, like germany or the united kingdom, have experienced a relatively significant inward mobility but, at the same time, falling or low unemployment. why? because they have been on the better side of the eu in terms of economic growth and this has allowed new jobs to be created in this period. so the contradiction or the trade-off which some people assume to exist cannot be observed in reality. fourthly, regarding money: more money is of course always better than less money but the important thing is that we take advantage of the existing budget. the eu budget is not the only source. it was never meant to be the only source for the youth guarantee, especially in countries and regions that are not eligible because their performance has already been relatively better. so it is also important to rely on national resources and combine the european social fund plus the top-up fund – the famous eur 6 billion – in regions where the youth unemployment rate has been extremely high in the past period. it is also important – if members are concerned with the flow of eu funds – to take the lead in council in order to refill the eu budget with the payment credits needed to enable the commission to pay the bills in time under the european social fund and other financial instruments. a very good starting point for this would be to agree on the third amending budget for 2014 and the draft budget for 2015 without any cuts to the commission proposal. we need to reduce the accumulated backlog of payment claims and not to increase it further. finally, my fifth point is about the evaluation. i agree with those who stress the importance of a serious fact-based evaluation of progress – or, in some cases, the lack of it – and this evaluation has to be inclusive. it has to include the social partners, the parliaments – the european parliament as well as the national parliaments – and, most importantly, the youth organisations themselves. this is what i have been doing in my capacity – meeting as much as possible representatives of the youth forum and various youth organisations. this is what we are acknowledging also at member state level.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few words in conclusion. first of all, thank you for the discussion today. the debate was extremely stimulating, frank and emphasized the urgency of action to tackle one of the most alarming problems facing many member states today. there's just one point i want to say a few words about. the fact that the youth guarantee mechanism has been strongly criticised in some speeches has led to speeches of hypocrisy. we have never claimed that the measures we have discussed today can provide a solution on their own. the youth employment initiative provides the seed capital to stimulate national initiatives and the scope for action at eu level is relatively limited and the initiatives are mainly aimed at coordinating, promoting new initiatives and supporting funding mechanisms. the council provides guidance to the member states and strongly encourages them to take action to tackle the problem of youth unemployment and, on behalf of the council, i can assure you that the italian presidency will do everything possible to help create the conditions for the worrying situation of youth unemployment in europe to be alleviated. let me express my sincere hope that the excellent cooperation we have had on this subject up to now will continue with the new parliament and the new european commission. i am convinced that our joint efforts to combat youth unemployment in europe will soon bear fruit.
in writing. with a youth unemployment rate in the eu of 23.6%, twice the adult rate, and with 7.5 million europeans aged 15-24 not in employment and not in education or training, the €6 billion 'youth jobs' initiative is an excellent tool. unfortunately, there are member states which have not yet approved the programmes submitted by their governments to the commission. these countries include romania. according to a study by the academy of economic studies, in romania, although last year the youth unemployment rate was below the european average, in the first quarter of 2014 this rate reached 25.7%, after a continuous increase in the last three quarters. in this context, and given that the youth employment rate has declined considerably, i ask the european commission to assist member states and to be actively involved in finding solutions for programmes already submitted for approval. i also call on those member states which have not yet started implementing this programme to make efforts to do so.
in writing. sleeping among young people has increased alarmingly recently at european level. statistics show that in most member states unemployment is the main problem facing the population. in fact, today one in four young people are not working, even though they should be the main active workforce. at member state level, there are still very large discrepancies between youth unemployment rates: from almost 8% in germany to over 50% in greece, spain and croatia. a series of common measures at european level is needed to encourage employers to recruit young graduates and unemployed people up to the age of 29. i also propose the establishment of committees to monitor very closely the use of european funds allocated to tackling youth unemployment. there are countries, like romania, where you don't see any results at all. that is why i insist once again that we look very carefully at the problem of youth unemployment, because they are the future of europe and the way the eu will develop depends on them.
in writing. youth unemployment is twice as high as for other categories. today, unemployment is over 23%, compared to 9% in 2012. over 70% of young people in employment have fixed-term or part-time contracts. 13% of young europeans are not registered as unemployed or in some form of education. i come from a country, romania, where the government has done a lot for young people, even being the fourth european country to implement the european youth guarantee. however, i do not think that either the council or the commission understand the gravity of the situation. 6 billion euros for 6 million unemployed under 25 years old is not enough! but what about the 25- to 40-year-olds? i repeat the information in such a way that the gravity of the situation is understood: - 6 million unemployed young people in europe - 6 million young people without a future in europe - 6 million young people who have nothing to live for in europe. these aren't just numbers, we're talking about people!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) - application egf/2014/000 ta 2014 - technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the commission has requested that the egf be mobilised in order to cover expenditure related to technical assistance for monitoring applications received and paid and measures proposed and implemented, to extending the website and translating the new elements into all union languages, to increasing the visibility of the egf and, in particular, to providing administrative and technical support to member states and regional authorities. we stress the importance of establishing better links between all those involved in the formulation of egf assistance applications, in particular between the social partners and local and regional stakeholders, in order to create as many synergies as possible. we call on the member states and all the institutions concerned to make the necessary efforts to improve the procedural and budgetary mechanisms with a view to accelerating the mobilisation of the egf. last but not least, we stress that the financial assistance provided by the union to the workers made redundant should be adequate and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. - i consider the development of these legislative and budgetary instruments to be an important step by the european union to provide additional support to workers affected by the major changes and crises that are occurring in the structure of global trade. i strongly support the parliament's collaboration with the european commission and that it should invite parliament representatives to the meetings and seminars of the expert group, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) - application egf/2014/001 el/nutriart greece. greece has submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in nutriart s.a. and 25 downstream suppliers and producers. the measures co-financed by the egf cover a total of 508 workers during the reference period july-november 2013. the 508 redundancies will aggravate the unemployment situation in the regions of attica and central macedonia, given that in the fourth quarter of 2013 the unemployment rate in attica was 28,2% and in central macedonia 30,3%. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore viability. we note that 150 workers and young people who are not in employment and not in any education or training programme will be selected to receive the maximum eligible amount of eur 15 000 as a contribution to start their own business. the aim of this measure is to promote entrepreneurship by providing finance, which should lead to the creation of new jobs in the medium term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the sector of redundancies in the romanian steel industry, not only because one of the two companies referred to has been operating in the n-v region of transylvania, where i am a candidate, but also because a great injustice was done there by the russian mechel group. in february 2013, over a thousand employees were laid off after the russian group mechel sold this combined for the symbolic price of 55 euros. i witnessed the massive layoffs that created imbalances, the over 1,800 employees representing about a third of the total number of employees in the area. significant financial support for redundant employees is an indispensable measure for professional retraining. eu mechanisms demonstrate that this structure, through its support programmes for people who lose their jobs because of major changes brought about by globalisation or because of the economic crisis, is becoming stronger and closer to its citizens.
in writing. - i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of romania, to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers dismissed by sc mechel câmpia turzii sa and the manufacturer sc mechel reparații târgoviște srl. the redundancies had a serious impact on the local labour market, as mechel câmpia turzii was the largest employer in the area. the package of services adopted includes measures to reintegrate 1 000 of the dismissed workers into the labour market, such as vocational guidance and counselling, vocational training courses and traineeships or assistance in starting up independent activities.
in writing. - in recent years there has been a considerable increase in imports of finished and semi-finished steel products into the eu, as well as a relative decrease in exports of such products, both of which added to a loss of eu market share in the finished and semi-finished steel products sector in which mechel operated. these events negatively affected the performance of the sector, leading to job losses due to restructuring in the steel sector in europe. romania has called on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help implement vocational reintegration measures for 1 000 of the people who lost their jobs after the russian mechel group decided to close down its business in romania in 2012. the total contribution from the egf requested is eur 3 571 150. by voting in favour, the romanian authorities will be able to use the bulk of this contribution to set up a social cooperative which will employ in the first phase 250 of the former employees of the wire harvester. it is a new initiative, not yet implemented through eu funds, as it will be owned by the employees themselves.
in writing. - i welcome the importance of improving the employability of all workers through tailored training courses and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during their professional careers, and i believe that the training offered in the coordinated package must be adapted not only to the needs of the workers made redundant, but also to the real needs of the business environment.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr siegfrid mureșan on the granting of aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the more than one thousand workers made redundant by sc mechel câmpia turzii sa, for their professional conversion and support in finding new jobs. this is an eloquent situation for the socio-economic implications of the crisis affecting european industry, and therefore the conclusions that can be drawn from the mechel case have a wider significance. i would point out that romania submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in sc mechel câmpia turzii sa as from december 2012. i therefore call on the european commission to implement as soon as possible the agreement reached by parliament and the council on increasing the eu financial contribution and streamlining the approval procedures for applications. secondly, a wider debate on the fate of the european steel industry is needed, given that the revival of economic growth in the european union is inextricably linked to the reindustrialisation of the member states. the eu is in a situation where it has to allocate money to its own citizens who are laid off because of the decline in european competitiveness and the increase in imports from china. it's not at all a sustainable situation, economically or socially.
in writing. - as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group in the european parliament and as a member of the social democratic party i voted in favour of this report. i would like to mention that this project was initiated by the psd government led by prime minister victor ponta and was unblocked at the level of the european commission through the joint efforts of the executive and the social democratic meps. moreover, the amendments tabled on behalf of the commission and approved drew the commission's attention to the long delay in approving the project and requested that the amounts be linked to the inflation rate in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2012/010 ro/mechel romania. romania has applied for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1 513 redundancies at mechel câmpia turzii and 72 at mechel târgoviște reparatii. in the reference period june to october 2012, 1 000 workers are covered by the measures co-financed by the egf. the romanian authorities submitted the application for a financial contribution from the egf on 21 december 2012 and the commission made the evaluation of the application available on 7 may 2014. we regret the long assessment period of 17 months and the decrease in purchasing power in 2012-2014 due to inflation. we invite the commission to propose measures to remedy this problem in similar situations in the future. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. as s&d coordinator for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would stress that this case demonstrates the need for a union strategy on the steel industry to maintain competitiveness.
in writing. – i voted for the decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for sc mechel campia turzii sa, as the eur 7 million project could greatly benefit a former industrial city from my constituency. we are talking about 1 500 people who lost their jobs in recent years, most of whom will be able to benefit from vocational guidance and training, as well as assistance in initiating independent activities. such measures are most beneficial and a clear example of european solidarity at work. however, i would like to draw parliamentʼs attention once again to the fact that factory closures such as this are a result of a longer-term process of industrial decline in europe. therefore, i believe that besides supporting regions in difficulty, we should intensify our efforts to re-industrialise europe and create new and stable jobs.
in writing. – in december 2012 the romanian authorities applied for a financial contribution under the efg following the redundancies of 1 513 workers in mechel campia turzii and in mechel reparatii targoviste between june and october 2012. on may 2014 the commission concluded that the application met the conditions under the egf and approved the mobilisation of eur 3 571 150 for romania. the approved package also includes measures to assist the reintegration of workers into employment by providing them with vocational guidance, counselling, training courses, internships, etc. while welcoming the deployment of egf funds in favour of romania, i regret the lengthy evaluation period of 17 months and i believe this delay contradicts the aim of the egf to provide a quick aid to workers. this region in romania relays principally on the finished and semi-finished steel products sector, therefore it is not surprising that the redundancies in mechel affected the local labour market in the region as whole. in order to find a sustainable solution to the problem, i urge the commission to present a proposal on the steel products industry with measures to improve the employability of workers in this particular sector in romania, and elsewhere in europe.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund has also proved a successful tool in romania, with more than a thousand workers made redundant at the nokia plant in kolozs county being able to return to the labour market with the support of the fund. today i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to allocate eur 3.5 million to support the return to the labour market of the 1,000 workers made redundant at the mechel and the mechel reparatii factories in gdynia and târgovişte. in the case of nokia, the kaluga county employment agency is carrying out effective work on the reintegration of the unemployed and the data so far shows that the kaluga county agency is also providing innovative solutions based on social cooperation for the redundancies in gdynia. i hope that despite the delay, this money that you're getting to support the workers, you can really use it in the most efficient way.
in writing. - i welcome the improved procedure introduced by the commission following parliament's request to speed up the release of these grants and believe that the spanish authorities and the commission must take all necessary action to verify the implementation of the financed measures in accordance with the principles of sound and efficient financial management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2014/003 es/aragón - restaurants spain. spain submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following 904 redundancies that occurred between march and december 2013 in 661 enterprises in the nace rev. 2 division 56 (restaurante) in the region of aragón. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. the 904 redundancies will further worsen the unemployment situation in the aragon region, given that the unemployment rate in the region has increased rapidly from 4,2% in december 2007 to 18,4% in december 2013. we recall the importance of improving the employability of all workers through tailor-made training courses and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during their professional careers. the spanish authorities are invited to ensure that the selection of beneficiaries of allowances and incentives fully respects the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunities between women and men.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2014/002 nl/gelderland-overijssel construction the netherlands. the netherlands has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 89 construction enterprises in the regions adjacent to the provinces of gelderland and overijssel. 475 workers out of a total of 562 eligible workers are targeted for measures co-financed by the egf in the reference period march to december 2013. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the banks have been able to obtain sufficient collateral to cover the losses of the sampled union producers. the government's austerity measures to reduce the public debt and budget deficit have led to a reduction in public spending as well as a sharp fall in prices and values in the housing market, making it difficult to sell and buy homes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2013/010 es/castilla y léon - spain. spain submitted an application for the financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 587 workers in three enterprises in the wood processing and manufacturing sector in the region of castilla y león. for the reference period december 2012 to september 2013, 400 of the workers made redundant are to participate in the measures provided for. the redundancies in the three companies are linked to major changes in international trade practices brought about by globalisation, given that the volume of eu-27 exports of wood products for carpentry and joinery in construction decreased by 10,33% between 2008 and 2011. in spain, the decline over the same period was even stronger, with the number of enterprises falling by 28,8%. it is estimated that a limited number of participants could receive up to eur 5 200 under the measure to promote entrepreneurship. we welcome the fact that, in order to provide workers with rapid assistance, the spanish authorities decided to start providing personalised services to the affected workers in february 2014, well before the final decision to grant egf support.
mr president, ebola has killed nearly 3,000 people and infected at least 2,000 others, according to official figures. and the reality is much worse than that: we're talking about three thousand people, we're not talking about three thousand figures. as a member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i want to convey to you the concern of our partners at the spread of this virus, but also the disappointment at the delayed and weak response of our international partners. we need to understand the gravity of the situation and the european union to take a leading role in addressing this problem. it is clear, and our partners in west africa say it: at the local level, there is no capacity to effectively manage the virus. the union should therefore assume this role. my question is how the european union can react to such situations in the future, if the council has called for a drastic reduction in european development aid funds and i wonder where these funds have been allocated in the past. you mentioned the granting of a large sum of money to fight ebola, and i am in the committee on budgets and i ask whether this is about commitments or actual money that will be given to these countries. i want to end by applauding the efforts of non-governmental organizations, especially doctors without borders, to fight ebola.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, my group is extremely concerned by the deterioration in the security and the humanitarian situation in syria and iraq. the extreme violence used, the indiscriminate killings, have resulted in a large number of civilian victims of is, including a large number of women and children, as well as the complete destruction of important shiite, yazidi and christian places and symbols. the cruelty and unacceptable use of violence against large communities is condemned by the international community. we have a duty to act. i am very shocked by the murder of david haines, the third westerner to be killed by is militants recently. we know that in many cases people from our eu member states have also been involved in the conflict, the so-called ‘tourist terrorists’, who are now coming back posing an even higher risk to our security. it is essential that our member states do all they can to prevent this from happening, and to identity these people and render them harmless, which requires coordination among the 28 member states. we need to see the problem not as a national one, but as a regional one, and for the regional problem to be addressed we need a regional response. iraq cannot be seen as a different problem from syria, and is must be contained and then defeated, but this can only happen if we can find a suitable and pragmatic solution. we are dealing with an extremist fundamentalist group which is using a harsh interpretation of sharia law and our first responsibility is to make clear the difference between this violent group and islam. islamic state should not be identified with islam. baghdad has not been able to address the problem of an inclusive governance but we have an important duty to apply pressure. let me conclude by mentioning three issues. first, cooperation with the main regional actors including iran, saudi arabia and the arab league. second, cutting financial resources from is, which are so high today, and finally reinforcing the regional and local authorities and communities, including providing arms to the kurdish population.
mr tannock, i think all of us realised the trick in it, but still, mr carver ...
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ceasefire of 26 august, which brought to an end 50 days of terrible violence between israel and palestinian groups in the gaza strip, was welcomed by the european union and the entire international community. by ending a cycle of violence which has caused over 2 100 palestinian deaths and 71 israeli deaths, this ceasefire has allowed a much needed humanitarian aid operation to begin which is now facing considerable difficulties. the ceasefire agreement, however, did not guarantee the overcoming of the previous status quo. this is of fundamental importance and the various conclusions adopted by the foreign affairs council and the european council in recent weeks clearly underline this. what is needed is a lasting solution to the gaza question, one that addresses decisively both the problems of the people of gaza and those of israel. a comprehensive political agreement is needed, which will place the question of gaza within the framework of a peaceful and comprehensive solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. the european union has never had any doubt that gaza should be part of a future palestinian state. efforts are continuing to build on the progress made with the ceasefire agreement of 26 august. on 20 september within the agreed one-month deadline egypt is expected to invite the parties back to cairo for important negotiations on key issues that were left unresolved in august. these include demands on the palestinian side for the opening of a seaport and the reopening of the airport; the european union is also committed to the peace process in the gaza strip. at the same time, the members of the un security council are seeking consensus on the adoption of a resolution establishing an international framework for the normalization of the situation in gaza. there is no denying that there is great uncertainty about the outcome of all these negotiations, but one thing is certain: the eu and its member states spare no effort to try to achieve a satisfactory outcome for all parties concerned. the eu is also mobilising to make a concrete and substantial contribution to the reconstruction of gaza. of course, the eu's ability to provide concrete assistance is closely linked to the political process i have just described. political stability will be crucial to delivering humanitarian assistance and to continuing to provide stable support. to this end, it will be essential that the palestinian authority re-establishes itself in gaza and regains control of security. the eu missions already on the ground (eubam rafah and eupol copps) could provide a good starting point, provided that the parties reach an appropriate agreement and that the situation in gaza improves from the point of view of conflict and security. the european union calls on israelis and palestinians to choose peace and to resolve the conflict which has opposed them for too many years. it is time for the leaders of both sides to take the courageous decisions necessary to end the spiral of violence and resume negotiations. the european union, with your support, will do everything possible to help achieve this objective.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would first like to welcome the ceasefire reached on 26 august and to underline the very important role egypt played in bringing about this agreement after seven weeks of conflict. i hope that both sides will remain committed to finding a lasting solution and that egypt will continue to play a positive role in the future negotiations on a permanent ceasefire. i deplore, on the other hand, the fact that the recent conflict has again caused loss of life and suffering to the civilian population. my condolences to the victims and their families. it is important that accountability for these acts be clarified and in this context i welcome the commitment of the israeli authorities to examine any credible allegation of tzahal's actions in the recent conflict and the launch of five criminal investigations into this matter. i would also like to note that our joint resolution addresses the humanitarian situation in gaza in a broad way. this remains very concerning. it is clear that europe needs to do more to respond to humanitarian needs on the ground, and this requires not only political will but also the appropriate financial means. i would also like to underline that in the afet committee, where i discussed the union budget for 2015, there was a very broad political consensus that financial assistance to unrwa should be increased and i adopted amendments to that effect. the issue of reconstruction in gaza is also important. i therefore welcome yesterday's agreement to establish an interim mechanism to speed up, under un supervision, the reconstruction of the gaza strip, while ensuring that the construction materials are used for civilian purposes. in the run-up to the donor conference on 12 october, i hope that the union will make a substantial contribution to the reconstruction process. finally, a word about the union's global role. i am pleased that this summer europe reiterated its willingness to contribute to a sustainable and comprehensive solution that enhances the security, well-being and prosperity of palestinians and israelis. we must not lose sight of our common goal of achieving a just and lasting peace in the middle east.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the resolution to be adopted tomorrow is well balanced. it is once again the result of close and serious work by our political groups, which shows parliament’s commitment to fighting for and working for peace in the middle east. without mentioning the numbers – the damages and losses which are part of the daily tragedy we faced in the gaza strip – i would like to make the point that europe was practically absent, and has not been living up to its duty in the middle east in recent months, during the usa-brokered negotiations or during the ceasefire. this is a fact of life and it is a painful lesson in terms of what we need to do. regarding what we need to do, i was inspired by the visit we made to jerusalem and ramallah. firstly, implementation of the ceasefire agreement is fundamental and is also a good basis for the negotiations which will soon take place to address the most important topics on the agenda. secondly, a successful donors’ conference in cairo will offer an opportunity for starting the reconstruction of gaza. thirdly, the national consensus government of palestine needs to be empowered to take full control over gaza, for without that the reconstruction will be in jeopardy. and finally, the role of president mahmoud abbas, and his moderating authority to negotiate with the israeli side, must be strengthened. the most important thing is to work for the peace process. here our union, together with the united states and with such important regional actors as egypt, saudi arabia and others, should contribute to the success of the talks. i believe that now is the time for europe to change from a payer to a player. it was a payer but we have to become a player and i am therefore very happy for the newly designated high representative, federica mogherini, to pay so much attention to the middle east and to the role of our union in trying to work for peace in the middle east. this is the only answer for the region at a time of great instability.
in writing.– i welcome the annual report on human rights and i am proud of the role played by the european parliament as a champion of democracy and human rights. it is encouraging that almost 150 human rights country strategies were adopted and, at a civil society level, more than 530 new eidhr 1 initiatives were launched. it is important that all actors should continue to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and in particular to abolish the death penalty, combat torture, and fight racism and other forms of discrimination. however, the challenge remains for the newly agreed country human rights strategy papers to be fully implemented and to uphold human rights through the eu’s trade, investment and development actions. we see everyday stories and images of great suffering which lead us to realise that further urgent action is needed. the action plan will help us to ensure continued progress and we should make all the efforts to implement the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy, with adequate flexibility so as to respond to new challenges as they arise. we should continue to step up our efforts and provide help to peoples in need around the world.
madam president, in the last two years we have discussed bangladesh four times in our emergency resolutions. this shows that there is an interest in the european parliament in developments in this country with which the european union has cooperative relations, especially, as is well known, in the framework of a partnership and development agreement. and the fact that we're interested means that we're looking at both what's happening positively and what's happening negatively. bangladesh, for example, has made significant progress in recent years in achieving the millennium development goals and, most recently, in legislation on the prevention of child marriage. on the other hand, serious concerns remain, as amnesty international's report earlier this month demonstrated, regarding enforced disappearances, the new policy adopted in august on the press, or the persistence of ethnic and religious violence. it is precisely because we are partners with bangladesh that we must ask that country to address seriously and urgently these human rights violations.
member of the commission. - madam president, i welcome the parliament’s resolution on human rights violations in bangladesh. as part of bilateral relations, the european union has consistently engaged with bangladesh to support the consolidation of democracy. it has repeatedly called on all parties to create favourable conditions for transparent, inclusive and credible elections. the eu regretted the fact that such conditions did not materialise in the elections of 5 january of this year. this means that the people of bangladesh were not given the opportunity to express fully their democratic choices. since then we have been closely monitoring developments, which unfortunately remain a cause for concern. we are in a situation where the main opposition party is not represented in parliament, which would help to ensure democratic accountability and meaningful oversight. this leaves the country without proper checks and balances. we are concerned about the situation of human rights and those of minorities and indigenous people. the space for civil society appears to be narrowing. we recognise the strong support of bangladesh for women’s empowerment. however, violence and discrimination against women and child labour still exist and demand further efforts. overall, as the parliament has rightly stressed in its resolution, the situation remains worrying. the eu is closely following key human rights issues, notably allegations of excessive use of force by law enforcement agencies and discrimination against minority groups and indigenous people, including the lack of implementation of the peace accord for the chittagong hill tracts region. we are monitoring the recent policy guidelines on broadcasting. this policy is likely to limit and restrict freedom of speech and have a chilling effect on media freedom. the eu opposes the death penalty as a matter of principle. the eu is also closely following the situation of the rohingya minority in myanmar and bangladesh. we encourage both countries to discuss the issue and to address the humanitarian situation. the eu remains committed to continuing to help the government of bangladesh in the implementation of its national strategy on myanmar refugees and undocumented myanmar nationals, whilst seeking to improve the conditions of operation of humanitarian service providers. after the rana plaza disaster, the eu launched the global sustainability compact to improve working conditions, labour rights, and safety conditions and to foster corporate social responsibility. the signature of the sustainability compact has permitted bangladesh to continue benefiting from the duty-free, quota-free tariff preferences for exports into the european union, which are key to sustaining exports and a major instrument of stability and poverty alleviation. we very much value the commitment of bangladesh to pursuing the implementation of the sustainability compact and we call on the government to make real progress in meeting compact commitments. while progress has been significant, much remains to be done and we must keep up the momentum. human rights and governance dialogue between the european union and bangladesh is in place within the framework of the eu-bangladesh joint commission. the next meeting will take place in the coming month. when preparing for it we will remain in close contact with and give support to civil society partners and human rights defenders in bangladesh. we will continue to work with the european parliament to monitor the situation and encourage the political parties to engage in genuine dialogue to strengthen democratic accountability and to hold transparent, inclusive and credible elections as soon as possible. let me finish by saying that only a genuinely democratic set-up can guarantee the fulfilment of the wishes and aspirations of the people of bangladesh, going along with economic progress and development.
the debate is over. the vote will take place today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr lambsdorff, it is noted but i am sure you know the answer to your question: procedural resolutions are voted in numerical order and the first one is this one. the roll-call votes are not an abuse of procedure so it would be good just to move on. – before the vote on paragraph 8:
i am told that it is rule 123(4), which says: ‘a joint motion for a resolution shall replace the motions for resolutions tabled previously by its signatories, but not those tabled by other committees, political groups or members’. that is the answer.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. – in violating ukraineʼs sovereignty, territorial integrity and freedom of choice, the russian federation has embarked on a new chapter of relations with the european union, drifting away from the common path of mutual responsibility for, and shared commitment to, ensuring peace on the european continent. in light of such developments, and thus as a result of the deliberate choice made by the moscow authorities, the eu can no longer maintain its previous stance towards the russian federation and the strategic partnership thereof. however, there can be no peace and stability without an act of responsibility and political maturity on the part of russia. its role remains a necessary factor for de-escalation of the conflict and a political, sustainable, long-term solution. with this assumption in mind, the inclusion of our amendments was a precondition for a yes vote. while condemning strongly russian actions, they emphasised the crucial need to support initiatives on dialogue with moscow, keeping open all available channels of communication. they also reiterated the full reversibility of the current eu position and its readiness to overturn its stand and to re-engage with russia as soon as it contributes genuinely and without ambiguities to a fair and negotiated settlement.
in writing. - i welcome the measures adopted by the eu agriculture council on 5 september and believe that the commission should look at ways in which the eu could better cope with similar crises in the future, in order to provide concrete and rapid support to affected european producers.
in writing. - i think it's time for the european union to speak with one voice and act in a coordinated way in relation to russia. after half a year of hesitation and ineffective staged sanctions, the ukrainian conflict is about to enter a winter favorable to russia. faced with the specter of a gas crisis in europe and the possible occupation of eastern ukraine, the eu needs to do more than make symbolic gestures. ukraine has already paid a painful blood toll for its european aspiration. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution calling on member states to act together to improve the eu's energy security and its ability to counter asymmetric challenges from russia. more firmness is needed in the face of russia's violation of international borders and norms. the eu can no longer afford to hesitate and take steps, because there is a danger of fuelling the kremlin's aggressiveness towards the former soviet states. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the risk that the eu-ukraine association agreement will remain a mere symbolic gesture if it is not swiftly ratified by the member states of the union and if its entry into force is delayed until the end of 2015.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i welcome the signing of the minsk ceasefire. it is necessary that this agreement be fully and in good faith implemented in order to lead to a genuine peace process. i support the commitment to ukraine's independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, inviolability of its borders and its european option. significant improvements in energy security, ensuring the eu's independence from external pressure, by strengthening the energy sector, developing energy infrastructure in the eu's neighbouring countries and developing energy interconnections between these eu countries are needed. i believe that the only viable eu response to russian threats is to be united, to send a unified message, to abandon the concept of strategic partnership and to identify a new unified approach.
in writing. - i argue that it is necessary and natural for the european institutions, in particular the european commission, to monitor the effects of the 'russian counter-sanctions' and to take urgent measures to support and protect all producers affected by the imposed trade restrictions. in future, the commission should be better prepared to support agricultural producers appropriately. the markets for perishable fruit and vegetables are currently the most affected. the new system from the commission is expected and welcomed.
in writing. - the joint resolution on the situation in ukraine and the current state of eu-russia relations clearly expresses the european parliament's position on the situation created east of the eu border and also refers to maintaining the european perspective for ukraine. in this document, meps strongly condemn the russian federation for waging an undeclared hybrid war against ukraine, using russian regular forces and supporting illegal armed groups. i also voted for the resolution because it reiterates the view that the eu-ukraine association agreement, recently approved by the european and ukrainian parliamentarians, is not the ultimate goal of eu-ukraine relations. the resolution stresses that, in accordance with article 49 of the treaty on european union, ukraine - like any other european state - has a european perspective and can apply to become a member of the european union, provided that it embraces the principles of democracy, respects fundamental freedoms, human and minority rights and ensures the rule of law.
in writing. – the ebola outbreak was officially declared on 22 march 2014 in guinea. it has reached four other countries (liberia, nigeria, sierra leone and senegal), affected almost 4 000 people, caused more than 2 000 deaths, and is the largest recorded outbreak in terms of cases, deaths and geographical coverage. information and communication are important tools in fighting the ebola outbreak and it is essential to facilitate trust and popular cooperation with anti-ebola measures. it is essential that the eu member states have the capacity to mobilise immediate response teams to ensure early diagnosis, monitoring of contact persons and tracing of transmission chains, measures for burials, education and local support. i voted for the eu to support and encourage the african union in regard to the need for a holistic action plan, as the situation is continuing to deteriorate rapidly; and for control systems to be put in place to ensure that the whole of the budget allocated to stopping the ebola outbreak is actually directed at fighting the epidemic in countries affected by the virus. furthermore, the member states and the commission should coordinate and strengthen medical research and the production of effective medicines and vaccines against ebola.
in writing. - i believe that the current crisis following the ebola outbreak cannot be solved by health systems alone, and that a concerted approach involving different sectors such as health, education and training, sanitation and food aid is also needed to address critical deficiencies affecting all essential services.
madam president, the situation in iraq and syria poses extremely serious geopolitical and security challenges to the region and to the west. moreover, we have seen one of the worst humanitarian crises, with vulnerable groups such as religious and ethnic minorities, women and children disproportionately affected by the barbaric actions of islamic state. swift and coordinated action by the international community is of the utmost importance. it is important for religious leaders in the middle east to denounce what islamic state is doing in the strongest possible terms. furthermore, i want to stress the importance of collaboration and dialogue between all groups in iraq: i sincerely hope that the new government led by mr al-abadi is a step in the right direction. in the long term, the iraqi government should work on reintroducing the concept of inclusive citizenship as the defining principle to accommodate all groups in iraq and restore trust among them.
in writing. – i am deeply concerned by the rapidly deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in iraq and syria resulting from the occupation of parts of their territories by is, this being a direct threat to the security of the european countries. i strongly condemn the attacks perpetrated by is against iraqi and syrian citizens, the serious violations of international human rights and humanitarian assistance committed in areas under the control of is and associated groups, including targeted killings, forced conversions, abductions, selling of women, slavery of women and children, recruitment of children for suicide bombings, sexual and physical abuse, and torture. i strongly support that the commission should engage with partners, including international organisations, to prepare a comprehensive programme to address the need to protect women and children affected by armed conflict. in the long term, i consider that a durable and inclusive political solution involving a peaceful transition to a genuinely representative government in syria would help to neutralise the threat of is and other extremist organisations. in this regard, the eu has to facilitate a regional dialogue on the problems facing the middle east and include all significant parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the following grounds. i believe that the violation of fundamental principles and objectives of the eu, namely the right to freedom of religion and belief, should not be allowed or tolerated. it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that the activities of extremist groups in iraq and syria, including the expansion of the 'islamic caliphate' by the jihadist terrorist group islamic state, is, pose a direct threat to the security of countries in the region, with a real risk of expansion to the west. welcomes the mobilisation of the emergency response coordination centre and the activation of the eu civil protection mechanism, as well as the eu humanitarian assistance in iraq and syria. i believe that the eu should prepare a strategic plan for a rapid, sustained and firm response, taking into account military, social and humanitarian aspects. i support the call for the eu to impose sanctions on all governments, public or private companies and other parties involved in the transport and exploitation of oil extracted from is-controlled areas, along with strict control over financial flows, to stop is's economic activities and prevent the exploitation of tax havens by this group.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe it is necessary to call on all parties to the conflict to make every effort to bring about a ceasefire, to end the suffering of the population and to allow society to develop. the eu needs to prioritise supporting reform of the libyan legal system as well as other areas essential for the existence and development of a democratic state. the proliferation of weapons and ammunition, explosives and arms trafficking in libya pose a risk to the stability of the country and its population. i welcome the eu's strong support for and commitment to the democratic aspirations of the libyan people, especially in the context of the current crisis, and support the call for the eu to be more actively involved in supporting libya's stability and democratic transition.
in writing. - the recent war between israel and palestine has brought significant loss of life and property. but i think we need to put aside the statistics and take concrete action to achieve peace. i think this conflict has no real winner. the recent hostilities have weakened israel's economy. the figures show a decline in consumption, especially in the south of the country, and tourism, which accounts for 7% of gdp, has been hit hard, given the peak mid-summer period. at the same time, hamas claims its so-called victory for the simple fact that it still exists today, considering that the victims and material damage justify its actions. unfortunately, it is the civilian population that suffers most and wants the situation to stabilise. the european union must play a more active role in resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that we have the capacity to intervene with diplomatic action to restore the necessary balance in the region. i would remind you that funding through the peace iii programme for peace and reconciliation in northern ireland has contributed significantly to creating a stable climate in the region.
in writing. - the ceasefire agreement in the gaza strip must be strengthened through sustained and effective dialogue between israel and the palestinian authorities, in order to prevent a resumption of the armed conflict, to ensure the necessary conditions for humanitarian aid to reach the civilian population and to create the conditions for the start of reconstruction of destroyed homes, hospitals and schools. the eu has a duty to be much more actively involved in relaunching the israeli-palestinian peace process and i regret in this respect that the relatively recent ambitious initiative of us secretary of state john kerry has not been more actively supported by european diplomacy. i support the resolution which calls for both intra-palestinian reconciliation between hamas and the palestinian authority and for new efforts to find a peaceful solution to this historic conflict. all the more so as we cannot lose sight of the broader regional framework upon which the growing threat of extremist groups hangs, which tend to trace an axis of terror from nigeria to iraq, through the sahel, libya, gaza and syria.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i welcome the ceasefire agreement and egypt's important role in the mediation process. i support the call for the eu to participate effectively in the reconstruction of gaza and in the urgent humanitarian effort. it is important that the key actors in the region, in particular egypt and jordan, are encouraged to continue their efforts to de-escalate the situation. i also support the call on the european union institutions to encourage trade, cultural, scientific, economic, energy and water relations between israel and its neighbours. i welcome the eu's willingness to contribute to an effective and sustainable solution that enhances the security, well-being and prosperity of palestinians and israelis alike, and i believe that active political engagement by member states is needed to try to achieve a lasting peace between israelis and palestinians.
in writing. – the recent war between israel and palestinian militants in the gaza strip has been the third of its kind in the past six years, and possibly the most gruelling of all. although it lasted for 50 days, it claimed the lives of more than 2000 palestinian, mostly children, and 70 israelis. in reaction to the 4500 rockets and mortars fired at israel by palestinian militants, the 5226 air strikes carried out by the israeli air force left gaza in ruins and in humanitarian need. the ongoing cycle of violence must be broken. although israel has the legitimate right to defend itself against militant attacks, the death of children and innocents is simply unacceptable. the only way to break this vicious circle is to find a sustainable agreement that will address all the root causes of the conflict. such agreement should restore fundamental freedoms to the people in gaza and at the same time provide security for israel. the eu has a prominent role to play in the resumption of the middle east peace process, with the objective of a two-state solution. i strongly urge the union to take a more active role in the efforts aimed at achieving a just and lasting peace.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
member of the commission. - mr president, i will limit myself to addressing some important points which have been made. let me first make it clear: the solidarity fund exists to pay compensation for damage after the fact. under the current legal framework, the solidarity fund cannot be used to prevent something; it can only be used ex-post facto, and even then it has to be activated by an application from the country concerned. as to the question: is it true that different funds have been allocated to different countries? there is no pre-allocation of funds. it depends on the type of disaster; it depends on the type of damage. for instance, one of the conditions is that the damage must exceed 0.6% of the region’s gdp: in the case of liguria, for example, that means damage in excess of eur 660 million. then, assistance is dependent on proof of the damage. there are so many factors which can differ from one country to another that i cannot give a straight answer except by enunciating the main principles. to take italy, for example: so far there has been no application by italy to activate the funds, but once that happens and once it is determined that the damage exceeds 0.6% of the gdp of liguria then, of course, the solidarity fund will pay for part of the damage. i must add, however, that the compromise struck by the european council in february this year has reduced the maximum annual allocation from the solidarity fund from eur 1 billion to eur 500 million: a 50% decrease. so no one can perform miracles – one can only do, perhaps, something approaching the impossible with the funds available. i had a question from ms moi, if i remember rightly, about allegations of irregularities in the use of the funds, and whether the commission checks their use. of course we check their use: there are a number of financial regulations which have to be followed and, more than once, when it has turned out that funds were used for the wrong purpose, or for purposes other than that for which they were allocated, a request has been made for the recovery and collection of those funds. as regards prevention – and i made it clear in my statement how cost effective prevention is – there is no specific fund in the european union just for floods. there are the structural funds, on which all the member states can draw, and particularly those states which are liable to natural disasters. i mention italy, in particular, because italy has experience of volcanic eruptions, mud slides, floods and earthquakes, so it is a country with one of the best-developed civil protection systems. because of the realities on the ground, italy can use the structural funds for purposes of prevention. i would like to finish by saying that funds are important, and government intervention is important, but i was impressed recently by seeing how volunteers – the so-called angeli del fango – also gave their assistance in genoa. we had seen them before: i was still young but i remember them in 1966-1967 at the time of the floods in florence. even then they were called the angeli del fango, which literally translates as ‘the mud angels’. the commission will continue its emphasis on coordinating the efforts of member states for prevention. that is why we have the floods directive which, although it is not a financial instrument in itself, is a legal instrument for coordination and cooperation between member states in response to natural disasters of this kind.
, in writing. floods are natural phenomena with major impacts on people's lives and the environment. human intervention in the environment through urban expansion, agricultural development, but especially through uncontrolled deforestation has considerably changed the situation of watersheds. a complete response to this problem involves, in addition to the flood response mechanism, a medium- and long-term risk prevention management. the strategy in this regard should go beyond coordination actions limited to flood response capacity. structural measures shall focus on the protection and safety of citizens, the environment and essential food sources. there are instruments at member state level that can deliver concrete results. funding programmes such as 'first afforestation' aim to increase the area of forest with a protective role against natural factors. unfortunately, in romania, interest in financing projects under measure 221 was particularly low, with only 26 projects contracted with a value of eur 1,55 million out of a total allocation of eur 230 million. the commission and governments need to do more to develop a coherent eu-wide flood prevention programme.
in writing. according to the world health organization, 4,447 people have died of ebola as of 14 october, making the epidemic a growing threat to global security. although the european centre for disease prevention and control maintains that the risk of transmission of the disease in europe is extremely low, i believe that this crisis should not be underestimated. rapid and coordinated action at european level is needed to limit ebola contamination, and european health systems must be prepared to diagnose and treat ebola if necessary.
madam president, it is obvious that young people have been a victim of the economic crisis of the past years without having caused that crisis, and that is why it falls upon us to look at the problem of youth unemployment and creating employment opportunities for youth as an utmost priority. so what shall we do to improve the situation of youth and bring youth back to the labour market? my first answer is labour market reform. all of those countries which have dared to make labour market reforms, even if difficult, even if unpopular ten years ago, their economies are stronger and more resilient and more competitive now. all of the countries which have postponed labour market reforms are in a more difficult situation. too often youth is the victim of a rigid labour market which protects those who are already employed but takes away the opportunities for young people to enter the labour market. my second answer is that we need to provide a framework in which the private sectors feel confident to invest, through competitiveness, innovation, research, solid public budgets and most notably structural reforms, because it is the private sector which mainly creates the jobs. thirdly, commissioner, i am a supporter of the youth guarantee scheme because i think unemployment levels are so high in europe that every measure which leads to bringing youth unemployment down is good. but we need to improve the youth guarantee scheme. we need to tailor it to member states, because we have it now in practice, and we have been talking about it for one, almost two years but we see that young people in europe are not really finding many more jobs. what i would like to ask you is to make sure that you get the public employment services which are already meeting at european level more involved in tailoring the youth guarantee scheme so that it responds to the needs of the people in various eu member states. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr. muresan, you speak very nicely! my question to you is: have you ever created a job and do you know how to create a job in the private sector?
blue-card answer. – the distinguished mep is asking me whether i know how the private sector creates jobs. my true belief is that it is not the public sector which creates the jobs of the future; it is indeed mainly the private sector and mainly the smes. our duty is to put at their disposal an economic framework in which they feel confident to invest – so economic reform, a competitive and economic framework in which public money is managed with care, and not what basically your political family is advocating, which is spending more of people’s money and putting more public debt on their shoulders.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with everything he said, but i want to ask the following question: it was said here that we need training, we need investment, we need job creation, we need access to credit for smes. i'm all for that, but nobody's going to take credit, nobody's going to create jobs, unless we have a market. and my question is this: do you not think that the commission, the european union, should do more to protect the internal market of the european union from all the flood of goods that come in and create unfair competition for the industrialists and service providers of the european union?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i think we are all aware that the report is ultimately a compromise between the political groups. of course, i will vote on the report. my specific question to our colleague is this: of course we are. my question is whether you can come forward as a group, as a member, with a concrete proposal for the democratic monitoring of the programmes submitted by the troika to the countries of the european union?
mr president, as prime minister, the commissioner of course pioneered the youth guarantee at national level in his home country – a successful project which has now also been introduced at european level. this will not solve youth unemployment as a whole, but it clearly helps. there are many good employment and youth unemployment policy ideas at national level which can be applied in other eu member states as well, not necessarily one-to-one – not all of them – but obviously a country in which youth unemployment is 50% or above might want to implement some of the successful measures from countries in which youth unemployment is 10% or below. therefore, i propose to establish a european mechanism for the exchange of best practices for job creation and especially for youth unemployment. parliament’s report on the european semester also contains my proposal to create such a european mechanism. i look forward to working with you, commissioner, in your new capacity as vice-president for jobs, to transpose this into reality. the second point i would like to make is linked to labour mobility. we are, of course, working on making transnational european labour mobility a reality in europe, but labour mobility is also too low within many eu member states. we often see in the same member states unemployment levels of below 5% and employers having a hard time filling vacancies, while in other regions in the same country unemployment is above 30%. therefore, we need also to include this and highlight it in the country-specific recommendations and work together on basically making labour mobility work within member states too.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for a very valuable debate and ideas. i will just take up a few issues which i would like to comment on briefly. one of the issues which we seem to more or less agree on is the implementation of country-specific recommendations. we can recognise that this has not happened as efficiently as it should have done and there we all must carry our own responsibility. the issues are, of course, in the hands of member states and governments and national parliaments, but we can also encourage them to do what they had promised to do and what is good for the countries themselves as well as for europe as a whole. my second point: mr cofferati and ms gall-pelcz mentioned the internal market and the country-specific recommendations concerning the single-market-related issues. we all know that there are also lots of shortages in this field. for instance, in the implementation of the services directive there are lots of shortages. this is quite amazing because we – the parliament, commission and council – have already decided on the services directive, for instance, and it has not been implemented yet. so we are lacking economic growth because of poor performance in various member states in this field as well, so we need to pay more attention there in the future. the third point is about the structural reforms. mr eickhout said that the commission has historically represented structural reforms that are too one-sided and our idea has been just to use structural reforms as a tool to reform austerity policy. of course, it depends on the country as to what the problems are, but i would just like to raise a few issues and a few examples of non-austerity structural reforms. the first one is tax reform, for instance lowering labour tax and raising environmental tax, or raising dividend tax and at the same time lowering corporate income tax. another issue is pension reform, which is necessary in many countries because the population is ageing – municipality reform, labour reform and things like that. so it is not only about austerity, but a change to society so that it is stronger and more sustainable. the next point is gender equality. many members also raised this issue. i am very happy about this because it is a question both of equality and labour supply. so at the same time as we are reforming our societies to be more sustainable, they can be more growth-oriented. gender equality – the finnish labour party is based on this – is very crucial in this sense. my final point: mr pirinski and mr cofferati mentioned the role of research and development. this is one of the issues on which we have to concentrate more during the next european semester – what we could do in order to strengthen r&d activities in our member states because this is the way to improve the potential growth of the member states. there are good examples in various member states where the universities and small- and medium-sized entrepreneurship have been combined in a very fascinating way and the universities have become a hub of entrepreneurship. so in something like this we could learn from each other, and they could be added to country-specific recommendations.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just two concluding remarks, after thanking all those who have spoken and having found a passionate debate here too, with many common views, although certainly not unanimous. the coming weeks and months are crucial in many respects and we hope to be able to examine soon the first annual growth analysis to be presented by the new commission. we need to review the economic governance provisions in the six-pack and two-pack review. and we must complete the europe 2020 mid-term review to ensure that the strategy and its implementing instruments remain valid and effective. cooperation between all the institutions of these processes will be essential to achieve positive results. as we embark on these revisions at european level, we are well aware that what matters to citizens is the result at national or regional or local level and their need to see improvements in their everyday lives. we have identified the policies that can bring about these improvements and implementing them is our common challenge.
the european semester has become an effective instrument of the european union and the member states for coordinating economic policies. the experience gained in recent years in using this tool is beginning to bear fruit. however, i believe that two problems still visible which affect the effectiveness of the european semester need to be removed. first, in some member states, the draft national reform programmes and those of the convergence or stability programmes are not presented to national parliaments before being sent to the european commission. secondly, the recommendations made to each member state by the european commission and adopted by the council are not transposed into programmes and measures at national level, so as to ensure that identified problems are addressed and trends are corrected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the sector of redundancies in the manufacturing of metal products in the comunidad valenciana, driven by similar problems in romania, where the metal sector has lost over 200,000 jobs in the last 20 years. some of the combines were privatised, but in most cases they disappeared altogether, being privatised by liquidation. the metal industry has become a jobless industry. and it will remain so for some time to come, as the big combined companies continue to reduce their spending. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. i consider that the european globalisation adjustment fund, through the measures provided for and the financial support provided, is an effective instrument for employment in the eu and an indispensable measure for the retraining of redundant employees. through such programmes, the european union is once again demonstrating its support for the workforce.
in writing. - spain submitted application egf/2014/004 es/comunidad valenciana metal for a financial contribution from the egf, following the 633 redundancies that occurred in spain between april and december 2013 in 142 enterprises active in the manufacture of metal products. i would point out that the redundancies in the 142 metal products companies are linked to the global economic and financial crisis. in spain, the production of metal products decreased by 23,3% in 2009 compared to the previous year and by 36,6% between 2008 and 2013, and the number of jobs in the metal products sector decreased by 43%. the processed metal products sector is an important supplier of raw material to a whole range of manufacturing industries, in particular the shipbuilding, construction and automotive sectors, all of which have been considerably affected by the economic crisis in the union. as s&d coordinator for industry, research and energy, i stress the need for a union strategy on european industry. viable solutions are needed for both the steel industry and the metal products sector to maintain competitiveness and jobs in the eu.
in writing. - i have voted for this egf project because as a shadow rapporteur from the s&d group i have contributed to the elaboration of the report and i support the need for an egf contribution. i believe that the european globalization adjustment fund is an excellent instrument capable in offering the support needed by the redundant persons but also in directly creating new jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the application egf/2013/012 be/ford genk - belgium. belgium has applied for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 512 workers, 479 of whom were targeted for participation in the measures in question, at the ford-werke assembly plant in genk and at 10 suppliers of ford genk between july and november 2013. the disposals are linked to major changes in the structure of world trade, as well as to the rapid decline of the eu's share of the global market for passenger car production and the steady decline in sales of new cars in the union. as there were less than 500 redundancies during the reference period, the requirements of the regulation are partially met as regards the minimum number of redundancies. the commission has declared the application for an egf contribution admissible as redundancies have a strong impact on employment and the local economy. in the present case, two other waves of redundancies expected in 2014 (approximately 4 340 redundancies at ford genk and 2 820 redundancies at suppliers in the same geographical area) are taken into account. these will have a strong impact on the entire flemish region, with the loss of 11 000 jobs expected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: for the application egf/2013/002 be/carsid belgium. belgium has applied for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 939 workers, of whom 752 were targeted for participation in the measures concerned. the redundancies occurred after the closure of the carsid s.a. production plant in the reference period september 2012 and january 2013. the disposals at carsid are linked to the major structural changes in the world due to globalisation, the rapid decline in the union's global market share in the production of crude steel obtained by continuous casting and the constant decrease in the production of crude cast steel in the union due to the reduced demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors. the production of continuous casting crude steel in the eu-27 decreased by 13,4% between 2006 and 2011 and the market share of the eu-27 decreased by 30,7% in the same time period. unfortunately, the steel sector in europe is facing serious economic difficulties and as the s&d coordinator for industry, research and energy, i stress the need for investment in this sector to revive steel production in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the request made by france following the 6120 redundancies at peugeot citroën automobiles. the company is active in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. of the total number of redundancies, 2357 workers are covered by measures co-financed by the egf in the october-january 2014 reference period. between 2000 and 2012 world production of cars increased by 44%, although production in western europe decreased by 25% and, in addition, production in third countries (south korea, china, turkey, indonesia, iran, malaysia, thailand and south america) increased considerably, currently constituting 47% of world production of cars (compared to 15% in 2000). to date, the automotive sector has been the subject of 21 egf assistance requests, 12 of which were based on trade-related aspects of globalisation and 9 on the global economic and financial crisis. as s&d coordinator for industry, research and energy, i stress the need to identify solutions that strengthen the competitiveness of the automotive sector. in view of the significant difficulties faced by the european automotive industry, these solutions need to take into account economic, social and environmental aspects.
in writing. the barroso commission's mandate has been marred by a constitutional, geo-political and financial crisis. the constitutional crisis was resolved by the treaty of lisbon. the geo-political crisis remains to be resolved. an important step has been taken by ratifying the association treaty with ukraine, but the next commission will have to finalise the agreement with moldova. the financial crisis was a difficult time for member states: the barroso commission has proposed several legislative packages to achieve a balance of fiscal responsibility, access to the european single market and initiated a deep structural reform in the countries concerned. a banking union has been created. as a result, the financial sector is equipped to supervise banks. the barroso commission has drawn up a long-term plan for modernising the european economy. multiannual programmes will aim to improve competitiveness by focusing on research, innovation and infrastructure development. it ensured that horizon 2020 was the largest european research programme and was endowed with an eu budget 30% larger than the previous programme. it wants to connect europe in the transport, energy and digital sectors. all these 2020 targets, agreed by the previous commission, will set a framework for competitiveness, sustainability and security in the eu.
(in writing) resisting the tide of anti-european populism in many member states is the most important achievement of the barroso commission in its second term. i believe that this committee has succeeded, despite the hesitations of the leaders of the member states and the syncopation generated by the economic and financial crisis, in circumventing the many trends that have emerged in favour of strengthening the intergovernmental method in eu coordination. over the past five extremely difficult years, the european commission has shown its capacity for initiative and leadership, putting its collaboration with the ep on a new footing, whose political role and responsibility have increased significantly. if we are to assess the work of the barroso commission we must look at the whole of the past decade. without exhausting the list of achievements during this period, it should be noted that the eu went from 15 to 28 members, the treaty of lisbon was adopted, and after intense turmoil another step towards integration was taken - from the european single market, one of the pillars of a united europe, to the implementation of economic governance. the new ec will have a difficult task, but i am confident that jean-claude juncker will continue on the path of an integrated europe.
mr president, the geopolitical climate at our eastern border is still frozen in limbo and, as the approaching winter becomes the main negotiation tool for our eastern supplier, pragmatism appears to be the word on everyone’s lips. but i beg to differ and this is why. for the completion of the single energy market we need to fill in the missing links in the infrastructure. we need to get smart and we need direct access to the global energy market through multiple entry points. a fully functioning internal energy market connected to the global market is the key to security of supply and to the long-term competitiveness of our industry. the resources we need for infrastructure cannot be covered by public money. we need to attract private investment, making better use of the financial instruments we have put in place. focussing on a co2 emissions reduction target that will keep our air clean is good, but we must also allow member states to decide themselves how they want to streamline their efforts on renewables and energy efficiency because each competitiveness pole in europe needs different policy tuning and a different energy mix. that is why a general emissions reduction target with flexible implementation is the choice to make. keeping our industry competitive and creating a real european market in energy with low prices and numerous supply sources is not a pragmatic choice; it is a choice for growth and this is what should be in our leadersʼ minds at this upcoming summit.
i am pleased that the ec agenda includes a debate that brings together three important themes such as the environment, energy and economic growth. i would like to briefly highlight a few important issues for each. we talk about renewable energy and the future opportunities offered by this industry, but the european market is invaded by products from outside the european union and young people do not benefit from specific training to integrate professionally in this field. we are talking about energy, but each member state negotiates separately for gas imports from russia creating price differences between member states. we talk about a common energy market, but we regulate it by forcing even energy and gas producing member countries like romania to raise their prices, affecting the local population, instead of letting the market act and competition lead to lower prices. we talk about the environment and energy, but we don't talk about the inequalities between rich and poor and the need to support those with low incomes. we talk about economic growth, but we don't produce or support innovation in energy or the environment. i hope that in this council you will make decisions!
mr president, the council's position on the 2015 draft budget is unacceptable. the reduction of payment appropriations for 2015 by eur 2,1 billion affects in particular the competitiveness funds for growth and jobs and is in flagrant breach of the council's commitment to overcome the crisis and revive growth. payment appropriations are linked to national contributions and member states still have negative attitudes. the stability and growth pact is not only respected by reducing national contributions, on the contrary. partnership agreements must ensure maximum convergence between the structural and investment funds and national budgets, and national strategies must be developed rapidly to make the use of funds more efficient and to generate sustainable economic growth. the recurring problem of insufficient payment appropriations needs to be resolved urgently, the volume of payment arrears in recent years, 23,4 billion at the end of 2013 under cohesion policy alone, needs to be drastically reduced. i support the increase of 4 billion in the level of payments proposed by the commission to a number of budget lines, including those dedicated to the fulfilment of the obligations under the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework. the 2015 budget reconciliation should be conditional on the completion of negotiations on the additional payment needs for 2014.
mr president, minister, commissioner, at a time when most member states are making significant efforts to stabilise their economies through fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, european funds are among the few sources of predictable stable investment for the next seven years. i therefore believe that the eu budget must remain an investment budget. last year, we in the european parliament agreed for the first time to reduce the multiannual budget of the european union, although perhaps more than ever, it was necessary to increase it, especially in areas such as research, innovation, investment in infrastructure, in order for europe to become more competitive, to cope better with global competition. in accepting a budget cut, we, the parliament, have taken into account the concerns of the net contributing states. however, these reductions are accompanied by the non-payment of debts owed by the european union to those who have rendered services to the european union and rightly expect to be paid. this reduces the prospects for growth at the member state level. the council's attitude is unacceptable and unjustified. the negative consequences for the real economy are significant. the council's breach of commitments has a negative impact on the economic recovery at the level of the european union. investment in infrastructure, research, innovation, is the engine of economic recovery. one last thing i want to say is that i also support the mobilisation of the margin for contingencies. i think it's the only way we can stabilize the situation.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a well-constructed european budget. for the first time, we have a budget structure that the european parliament proposes, which takes into account the needs of citizens. a budget that gives priority to youth, innovation, smes or social policies. in this respect, i would like to welcome the fact that this budget includes a pilot project that i have initiated, which provides for the identification and implementation of solutions to increase access to health services in rural areas. with this project, we are able to show that the european budget is involved where citizens need it, in the field of health. we also manage to reach out to the rural environment and show that the european union is also acting at this level. i am convinced that pilot projects and preparatory actions initiated by european parliamentarians are extremely useful legislative mechanisms that can increase transparency but also allow citizens to be involved in budget construction. now we only have to make the member states and the council understand that we need this european budget, that without european financial resources there would be no projects of common interest with a european dimension. we have a duty to show that the european budget responds to the daily needs of citizens and we have to show how this budget supports them.
mr president, i was pleased to see this morning the presentation of a very strong commission with a new approach, reinventing a new way of working efficiently. i particularly welcome the appointment of the vice-president responsible for better regulation, because we badly need a cross-sectoral evaluation of the impact of our policies on eu competitiveness. this is a critical moment for europe, we all know that, and i would like to say to commission president mr juncker that with his ambitious programme – which i wholeheartedly support – he has raised very high expectations and hope for us and for our citizens. i am glad to see, mr juncker, that your ambitions for europe match the challenges we are facing. you and your team will be holding tremendous responsibilities to carry europe back onto the path of growth and to win the trust of our citizens in the common european project. the jobs, growth and investment package which you said you will present shows that we are on the right path. i have long advocated the wider use of financial instruments to stimulate private investment in the real economy. with the current public financing capacities we need to be more focused and more efficient. we need a change of paradigm in financing. only this will allow us to raise the necessary investment. a word on one priority announced, and there is no need to say how important the digital single market is for stimulating growth and creating employment in our economy. however, infrastructure is not the main challenge in this area. the challenge is to find the right incentives for companies to invest in their infrastructure and this depends on the regulatory framework, which is now outdated and has to be modernised to find the right balance between players and the right incentives. i wish you good luck in the next five years.
in writing. – president juncker, we, the citizens of europe are expecting: a commission with a new way of doing things: more dynamic, more efficient, better cooperating with the european parliament, a commission oriented towards the european citizens’ aims and goals, a commission that will focus on new investments, investments in europe’s critical infrastructure, investments to fuel sustainable growth, a commission that will develop new programmes and allocate more money for job creation, especially for young people, a commission which will work thoroughly on improving solidarity between the member countries of the eu, especially the development of less developed regions within eu countries, a commission that will find the right balance between support for the private sector and for financial institutions and an effective social security for eu citizens, a commission which will work hard to implement and further develop a real common security and defence policy, an eu with the necessary military capabilities to face old and new challenges and threats to our common security, a commission which will work hard for a more influential eu in international affairs. we wish the new commission lots of success, because together with the european parliament and the council, our success is going to be europe’s success!
in writing. the election of the new european commission marks a new, crucial stage in the process of institutional reconfiguration at eu level. by appointing mr juncker as the next commission president and by approving its members following hearings in the european parliament, this body, which represents the will of the citizens of the 28 member states, validates the choice made in the european elections and confers an unprecedented democratic legitimacy on the commission. it is an important step towards overcoming the crisis of confidence in the community institutions following the recession years. the new commission has the task of launching a bold process of growth and fighting unemployment. i am confident that the experience of mr juncker and other members of his team in stabilising the eu in the aftermath of the financial and economic crisis provides a solid basis for the ambitious agenda i propose for europe over the next five years. the eu needs continued efforts to consolidate its budgetary health, consolidate the progress made, and provide a sustainable boost to economic competitiveness and job creation. at the same time, the process of european integration must continue, with the removal of the last barriers to free movement and active solidarity to reduce the gap between the old and new member states of the union.
in writing. – as someone who knows the commission intimately, i must say i admire the courage of its president, mr juncker, to try ending its unfortunate ʽsiloʼ culture. another positive ingredient of the juncker vision is delegation to the vice-presidents, which should create space for the president to provide more vision and leadership than was the case in the past. the personal qualities of the president also seem to foretell the right balance between charm and firmness, a long leash and swift retribution. the new arrangements, however, also leave some questions unanswered. at the top, the presidentialism of previous years was accompanied by an ʽambush cultureʼ, which essentially meant sacrificing collegiality for the sake of presidential power, underpinned by a super-strong secretariat-general (in itself a normal thing). in time, every commissioner learnt to use the system to clear his or her files, and the habit became second-nature. i am also afraid the old-fashioned career and motivation system for officials will not help the juncker approach. finally, a more political commission is a good thing, provided ʽpoliticalʼ is opposed to superficial posturing, spinning and opportunistic surfing. i hope the president has the right answers for all these problems and i wish him luck.
, in writing. i believe and hope that the team you have formed will help the european union to emerge from the current crisis. the plans and promises of you and the commissioners-designate are ambitious, whether in terms of supporting investment, regularizing emigration, creating jobs for young people, fighting illegality and, above all, reducing bureaucracy at european level. the latter is also one of the priorities of the commissioner-designate for agriculture, phil hogan, which i fully share. european agriculture needs simple procedures that simplify the lives of european farmers. i salute all the ambitions of the new committee. but please remember, in the course of your mandate, the promises you made. as regards the vice-presidents, i hope that this new formula will not lead to internal deadlock within the commission, and i therefore ask you to intervene firmly in their coordination. the european union must not get into any kind of procedural, bureaucratic or other deadlock. i believe that the commission's credibility will only be demonstrated if it is able to reduce unemployment, increase investment, support farmers in difficult times, such as the current one caused by the russian embargo, and cooperate more closely than in the past with the european parliament.
, in writing. today we voted on the framework programme and the composition of the new european commission, led by jean claude juncker, in the european parliament plenary. the new european commission was elected by a majority of meps, with 423 votes in favour. as a member of the european parliament i have high expectations of the new european commission. i expect continuation of public social policies, i expect public policies targeted at the needs of young people, i expect sustainable investment in infrastructure and in reducing the gap between east and west. last but not least, i expect a positive attitude towards the european path of the republic of moldova from the new european commission. i wish all european commissioners success in their work and wish them to work efficiently and transparently, for the benefit of european citizens, with both members of the european parliament and ministers of the member states. i believe that the european institutions, the european parliament and the european commission must get closer to citizens and communicate directly and transparently with them. i would like every european citizen to know what are the direct benefits to him or her that come from the european policies we propose. i am confident that this new beginning for the european commission will open up even more the way to communicate and get closer to european citizens.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the council, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate president juncker and the whole commission on the vote of approval they have just received from this house. it is a sign of support and confidence on the part of the members of this parliament. this vote paves the way for the final necessary step, the appointment by the european council, which must be completed by the end of this week. in the coming months and years, the commission will have a key role to play in tackling the challenges we face. these are formidable challenges, including increasing europe's competitiveness and job creation, developing a coherent european energy and climate policy, and the problem of insecurity in our neighbourhood, and there are many more. of course, the commission cannot tackle all these challenges on its own; it also needs the cooperation of this parliament and the council. i would therefore like to take this opportunity, mr president juncker, to underline the council's commitment to cooperate with you over the next five years. we will have to work closely together, and with this parliament, if we are to implement the agenda agreed by the european council at the beginning of this year. the measures we take and the policies we adopt will be the basis on which we will all be judged by our citizens, and that is more difficult than ever today. i am therefore pleased that you acknowledge that the people of europe not only expect things to be done, but to a large extent want them to be done differently from the past. the way you have organised the commission is a clear sign of your willingness to work differently and we welcome that. at the same time, president juncker, you have shown in your speech that you are a strong supporter of the european ideal. we shall support and encourage him whenever he works in the interests of europe. we look forward to working with you and your team in the years ahead.
in writing. i am confident that the new european commission team is a strong and experienced one that will directly support the interests of eu citizens. i am referring to the development of the investment sector - so important for creating new jobs and reducing youth unemployment - and to the adoption of measures to combat illegal migration or the continuation of eu enlargement negotiations. i am pleased that romania will hold a very important portfolio and i would like to congratulate and wish success to my colleague corina crețu in her role as commissioner for regional policy.
in writing. - today we witnessed a historical exercise of european democracy. it was citizens who, by their vote in may, decided who leads europe. but we also made a crucial political choice, one binding us for the next five years. commission president-elect juncker was not my candidate during the election campaign and is not my candidate today. yes, the majority of eu citizens voted for him. their votes must be respected. but he did not win an absolute majority in this house. my vote, that of s&d, was one based on precise demands to mr juncker and his new commission college. eu citizens want a new direction for europe; they gave a mandate for change. our red lines as a political family were clear: the end of austerity-only policies; investment for sustainable growth and decent jobs; a vigorous fight against the drama of youth unemployment; safeguarding freedom of movement. we secured an agenda which included our key priorities. this is the juncker commissionʼs commitment. this is why i voted yes. today the eu is more democratic, transparent and accountable than ever before. we will remain vigilant to ensure that citizensʼ voices are heard and so will our college members, including romanian commissioner corina creƫu.
in writing. – today we witnessed an historic exercise of european democracy. it was for the citizens, with their may vote, to decide on who leads europe. but we also made a crucial political choice, one binding us for the next five years. commission president-elect juncker was not my candidate during the election campaign and is not my candidate today. yes, the majority of european citizens voted for him. their votes must be respected. but he didn’t win an absolute majority in this house. my vote, that of s&d, was one based on precise demands to mr juncker and his new commission college. european citizens want a new direction for europe; they gave a mandate for change. our red lines as a political family were clear: the end of austerity-only policies; investments for sustainable growth and decent jobs; a vigorous fight against the drama of youth unemployment; safeguarding freedom of movement. we secured an agenda including our key priorities. this is the juncker commission’s commitment. this is why i voted yes. today the eu is more democratic, transparent and accountable than ever before. we will remain vigilant to ensure that citizens’ voice are heard, and so will our college members, including romanian commissioner corina cretu.
in writing. - on october 22nd i voted for the junker commission and the portfolio allocated to romania. the new commission must take forward the reforms undertaken by the barroso commission and tackle some of the major challenges facing europe today. among these, i would like to highlight the problem of unemployment in the eu, which remains very high despite all efforts, and the problem of russian gas, on which many countries are dependent. the junker commission must be set up very quickly and move beyond the stage of proposals on paper. we need solutions that are immediately applicable and that have tangible results. i think and i hope i made the right choice. the new european commission team has a pronounced political profile. three former prime ministers, two former foreign ministers, two former ministers of the economy are among its members. the junker commission must be held to the full. increased attention must also be paid to the way public investment is spent. for example, romania has over 3 billion euros available this year, which needs to be invested in an efficient economy so that it generates development and progress.
in writing. - i consider the positive vote by the european parliament for the new european commission to be an important democratic act reflecting the parliamentary elections. the reservations about certain commissioners were overcome by 423 votes in favour of the whole team. after a period of political negotiations and tough hearings in the european parliament, president juncker and his commissioners will take over the leadership of the european executive on 1 november 2014. this commission, if it works more closely with the european parliament than in the past, will be able to achieve the results it has set out to achieve.
in writing. - i voted with great hope for the commission presented today by jean-claude juncker. the vote follows the vote in dublin at the epp congress on jean-claude juncker's candidacy for president of the european commission, the vote in the ep plenary on his appointment as president of the commission and the vote on 25 may at the european elections, in which the udmr supported this candidate. i hope that the new commission will be able to avoid the dangers it faces from the very first days of its term of office. i agree with the principle of flexibility and encouraging teamwork on which jean-claude juncker built the new ec. but we will have to see this principle put into practice, we will have to see the new role of the ec in its relationship with the member states, that of guidance, support and generating synergies, not just that of control and coercion. how the new commission will start its work and how it will strike a balance between the vice-presidents and the teams of commissioners they coordinate will be crucial. the new ec must become the true partner of the member states! i wish the new commission every success and good luck!
in writing. - i regret that the reductions proposed by the council in relation to certain headings for administrative and support expenditure financing the implementation of key union programmes could be detrimental to the successful launch of new programmes and present a major risk of impeding the implementation of union policies.
in writing. - the resolution we voted on today represents a financial package of eur 142.1 billion in payments appropriations and eur 145.6 billion in commitments appropriations. although a modest budget, the council took the approach of making further cuts in payments, representing a reduction of -0.18% in comparison to 2014. these cuts were reversed by the ep, which also called on the use of the flexibility mechanism to generate an additional eur 4 billion for the 2015 budget. these funds are essential for investment in programmes such as horizon 2020, erasmus and cosme, which help to promote job creation and growth. but a discussion on the 2015 budget cannot take place without addressing the shortage in payments for 2014. even if the draft amending budgets for 2014 are successfully adopted, we are still facing a roll-over of bills from 2014 into 2015 of eur 18 billion eur. this situation is unacceptable. this resolution, which i voted in favour of, reminds the council that the eu budget is an investment, not a burden. the longer the council takes to address the shortage in payments, the longer it continues to make further cuts to what is already perceived as a limited-size budget, the longer it delays europe’s economic recovery and growth.
in writing. - the 2015 union budget is designed to meet future challenges, to promote initiatives for growth, jobs and investment in the general interest, but not least to strengthen areas of weakness or priority. unfortunately, the proposed reduction in the commitment appropriations of operational funds for producer organisations contributes to widening the development gap. i would remind you that in some member states the level of organisation of producer groups is very low. they also draw attention to the fact that the application of the 'financial discipline' mechanism may create difficulties for farmers with regard to direct payments exceeding eur 2000. the abolition of quotas for milk in april 2015 and for sugar in 2017 will create major imbalances in the internal market. it is therefore necessary to create as a matter of priority a fund for the identification of new markets for distribution in third countries. the commission recently allocated eur 30 million for exploring new markets under temporary emergency aid following the russian embargo. we still need concrete action plans backed by a robust budget to reduce the dairy and sugar surpluses.
in writing. - i believe that additional support is needed to mitigate the impact of the ban imposed by russia on the import of certain agricultural and fishery products from the union and the emergency support measures taken by the european commission as a first response to this crisis.
in writing. - the council's position on the 2015 budget is contrary to the european parliament's resolution of 13 march 2014 and the european council conclusions of june and august 2014. the reduction of payment appropriations from the competitiveness and growth fund is of particular concern, in breach of the council's commitments to act to overcome the crisis and its effects. instead of a strategic investment programme to boost competitiveness and sustainable jobs in key areas such as transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure, the council has put forward a proposal that ignores the eu's role in coordinating growth initiatives and supporting them through its own funding instruments. i am referring in particular to the programmes under the europe 2020 strategy, such as eures, which are designed to promote cross-border labour mobility. in this regard, i consider it appropriate to launch the pilot project for the introduction of the european worker's electronic card, which will include workers' occupational and social security data card distinct from the european health insurance framework. i also support the call for increased subsidies for smes and cooperatives to support them in the face of rising production costs, continuing technological progress and the market dominance of large companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union because, through the efforts of the committee on budgets of the european parliament, of which i am a member, we have succeeded in creating a budgetary architecture that focuses on the needs of young people, innovation, smes and social policies. the draft budget also includes the pilot project i initiated on increasing access to health services in rural areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015. the union budget plays an important role in achieving objective policy objectives such as: investments in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure at union level (including the completion of the digital single market by 2015), energy efficiency, innovation and research. unemployment is the eu's top concern and the recovery of member states' economies and the creation of new jobs require a review of the eu's austerity policies, allowing member states to apply the most appropriate policy options to their specific situations. the eu budget should therefore focus in particular on decent job creation and sustainable economic growth. in addition, instruments such as the esf, the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund or the youth employment initiative are particularly important in times of crisis. as 2015 will be the second year of implementation of the new cycle of the european structural and investment funds, we stress the need to allocate sufficient commitment and payment appropriations to ensure that programmes reach the desired number of beneficiaries and thus produce the expected impact.
mr president, i was glad to see that my amendment expressly pointing to the issue of roma poverty, social marginalisation and discrimination in europe, was accepted in the final report on the european semester. this is proof of the fact that here in the european parliament we are aware of and agree on the need to implement long-term targeted and integrated measures aimed at reducing the social and economic marginalisation of roma communities. i believe that these measures should also be included and followed through in the european semester recommendations for all countries facing challenges in this field. drawing the roma into the regular labour market would provide them with social benefits. on the one hand it would alleviate the burden of social welfare systems and on the other hand would lead to increases in tax revenues. in the long term, however, i found that it is imperative that we increase school attendance by roma children and that we take more targeted measures against early school leaving.
in writing. - high debt levels, high unemployment, especially among young people, and almost non-existent economic growth in the euro area are some of the current challenges and priorities of the european semester. labour market recovery is hampered by the lack of competitiveness of some sectors, which contributes to the fragmentation of the labour market at community level. economic growth is closely linked to the existence of a functioning labour market, based on the exploitation of vocational skills, favourable to inclusion, encouraging mobility and guaranteeing equal treatment for all workers. the economic crisis has hit the sme sector hard, making it difficult to access finance. consistent programmes are needed to increase competitiveness, to create new jobs, and the european semester can make a real contribution to this by coordinating budgetary policies. the particularly low level of implementation of the country-specific recommendations indicates a lack of confidence in these recommendations and confirms the lack of coherence between community commitment and the actual implementation of policies at member state level. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commitment of member states' governments to the community is an essential condition for economic growth, financial stability and employment.
in writing. - fragmentation of the labour market is currently one of the causes of unequal access to jobs, differentiated pay or unfavourable working conditions in the eu. all this translates into high youth unemployment, insufficient standards of living, and an increasingly pronounced polarization between low-skilled and high-skilled work. ending this fragmentation requires structural reforms that focus on sustainable policies that are pro-growth and ultimately create jobs and combat poverty. i believe that these reforms should focus on increasing the capacity of labour markets to integrate young people into the workforce, or to be able to provide opportunities to vulnerable groups. another objective of structural reforms should be the medium- and long-term sustainability and equity of social security, healthcare and pension systems.
in writing. - i believe that, after years spent following a model of austerity that has proven unsuccessful, leaving us in an unacceptable economic and social situation (higher percentage of unemployment, extremely low inflation rate) we have successfully pushed for the change that europe is waiting for. parliamentʼs report calls for a strong social pillar to be the priority of the european semester. parliament calls for more investment in research and development and recalls that investments should come mainly from the public sector. it highlights the importance of socially sustainable structural reforms, enhances the fight against social exclusion, against gender inequality in the labour market and the difficulties smes experience in accessing finance. moreover, it enacts the use of automatic stabilisers as a way of fighting against macroeconomic unbalances and removes the concept of macroeconomic conditionality, a rule that would punish underdeveloped regions which, on the contrary, need more support from the eu financing system. it is in my hope that with the support of mr junkerʼs eur 300 billion investment plan, we can finally recover from this crisis and put an end to social suffering that threatens the cooperation and solidarity of the european union.
in writing. - i support the draft resolution calling on the new european commission to launch, as a matter of urgency, a european investment programme to restore economic growth in the eu in the short term. it is a key support of parliament for president juncker's proposal to allocate €300 billion to boost the still fragile economic recovery in many member states. the european commission must give priority to public investment in infrastructure, research and innovation and human capital, as it committed to do during the european parliamentary hearing. i would like to draw attention in this connection to the need for measures to facilitate access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises, as a fundamental element of the european economy. the full implementation of the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme 2014-2020) must be accompanied by measures to reduce costs and simplify procedures affecting the ability of smes to access funds. the current fragmentation of national digital services regulations also needs to be overcome in order for the digital single market to become a significant driver of economic growth. in this respect, i advocate better coordination against tax evasion, in particular by multinational companies, in order to strengthen the conditions for fair competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the priorities for 2014. recovery from the financial crisis, sovereign debt and competitiveness cannot be achieved through a loose monetary policy alone. we stress the importance of continuing the process of deep, balanced and socially sustainable structural reforms in order to achieve growth, create jobs and combat poverty. the eu cannot increase its competitiveness again by reducing spending alone, but must increase investment in research and development, industrial development, education and skills, and the efficient use of resources at both national and european level. we call on the commission and the member states to strengthen eu industry through a more flexible competition policy that promotes competitiveness and employment, and through a green and digital transition plan. we reiterate the call on the commission to draw up, after consulting the social partners, a legislative proposal on the information and consultation of workers on restructuring planning and management, in order to ensure an economically and socially responsible adaptation to changes in eu industry.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the kurdish fighters of the syrian democratic union party have heroically defended their town, kobane. in this respect, the s&d and i deplore turkey’s inaction in the face of this jihadist assault and its refusal to join in practice the anti-islamic state coalition. as a future candidate for membership of the european union and as a member of nato, it is important for turkey to show readiness to cooperate and coordinate with the eu and nato. this is not the case right now. let me say respectfully to turkey that we do understand its legitimate right to fight terrorists – any terrorism – but, at the same time, it is morally very difficult to accept that failing to support kobane kurdish fighters at a critical time could be explained by turkey. kobane’s fight is highly symbolic, not because they are fighting for their town, but because it concerns a wide confrontation between all those fighting islamic state and al-qaeida’s global jihadist forces everywhere. in recent days, turkey has finally taken steps forward and this should also be noted by parliament. yes, turkey allowed kurdish forces to cross its border with syria to help fight against islamic state but as mr della vedova mentioned, this should be put into practice and not be just declared. we should also not forget the extensive number of kurdish refugees in turkey, which stands today at very high numbers and those humanitarian actions and important contributions from the european side which are also very much needed. i have to emphasise that for us the military operation should have an exclusive aim – the destruction of isis and all groups linked to al-qaeda, and should include all relevant regional players. the coalition should better define the goals of the operation and should also design a strategy to stabilise the region after the war phase. finally, do not forget iraq and lebanon... (the president cut off the speaker.)
, in writing. the international community must continue its efforts to support the defence of kobanê. for us, kobanê has become a symbol of the fight against the isil phenomenon. i salute the courage of the kurdish forces in this bloody confrontation for the defense of their hometown. i consider it of particular importance to increase the european union's commitment to the international coalition effort to annihilate isil - the scourge that threatens security and stability in the middle east and the euro-atlantic area. i welcome turkey's important regional role and hope that the authorities in ankara will continue to provide humanitarian support to all refugees, regardless of ethnicity or religion. the turkish government has allocated a total of almost four billion dollars to hosting syrian refugees, providing them with very important assistance. the establishment of more than 20 refugee camps in ten provinces of turkey has been an essential measure to alleviate the humanitarian catastrophe of people affected by the consequences of the conflict in syria and the military advance of isil. turkey's role in the region is vital to the security of the european space. in this context, we believe that the european union should continue and deepen political consultations and counter-terrorism cooperation with the authorities in ankara with the immediate objective of eradicating the threat posed by the isil group.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, hong kong is an important partner for the european union: we share values such as freedom of expression and the rule of law and we have flourishing trade and economic relations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. in order to fulfil the commitment made to the european parliament in 1997, the commission and the eeas publish annual reports on the political and economic developments in hong kong since the transfer of sovereignty to china. while adhering to the 'one china' policy, the european union is keen to ensure that the 'one country, two systems' principle is fully respected and applied. the european union attaches great importance to the stability, economic prosperity and democratic development of hong kong, which in turn depend on respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the law, including the right to peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary. hong kong is at a crucial stage in its democratic development. we have repeatedly expressed our support for the introduction of universal suffrage for the election of the chief executive in 2017 and the legislative council in 2020. we believe that responsible government contributes to stability and prosperity, helps maintain hong kong's credibility and its position as a key international business centre. the eu welcomes the fact that a public consultation has taken place and that the people of hong kong have been able to express their views on electoral reforms. the government received more than 130,000 proposals, which shows that hong kong has a highly active civil society and citizens who aspire to a high level of political participation. the debate, however, highlighted political polarization within hong kong society and the difficulty of finding a compromise, especially on the procedure for nominating candidates for the role of chief executive. in late august, the standing committee of the national people's congress of china adopted a decision on electoral reform that many in hong kong deemed too restrictive and conservative: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the appointment of a new member of the commission. although legally in accordance with the basic law, politically this decision was difficult for many hong kong citizens to accept and has raised protests, which have been going on for more than three weeks now. the protests were largely peaceful, thanks to considerable restraint on the part of both the protesters and the police forces, although unfortunately there were some incidents. the hong kong government, while supporting the decision taken by beijing, believes that there is the necessary flexibility to find a compromise solution. we welcome the talks between the government and the student representatives yesterday. they are the first step towards a dialogue that could lead to a solution acceptable to all parties. we have on many occasions expressed to our interlocutors in hong kong the european union's support for the introduction of universal suffrage. we have also expressed our concern about the situation to representatives of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong. in their meetings with mr leung, the president of the european commission, in brussels in may, presidents van rompuy and barroso stressed the importance for us of the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and rights and the introduction of universal suffrage. in both hong kong and brussels, our consultations are continuing in close coordination with the member states, which are following developments with the greatest interest. we sincerely hope that the parties will continue to dialogue and reach a consensus on a fair electoral system.
on behalf of the epp group. we have all, i think, been following very closely what has been happening in the last two months in hong kong, an important partner of ours, both commercially and politically, and i would like, first of all, to express my regret that the union has been silent or so silent about the situation in hong kong. i think we should not shy away from defending democracy in all parts of the world, to say how important freedom of expression, political freedom, among other things, to participate in elections and to vote, is at all times. the universal vote has no value if the process of validating the nominations is restricted before the vote. and i was reminded, as i watched what was happening in hong kong, of an old observation he made more than half a century ago, about totalitarian regimes, raymond aron, who said that in these regimes, it's not the voters who decide who rules, but the rulers who decide who votes. in hong kong, there's a little nuance that's been introduced, because we have the impression that it's not the voters who decide who governs, but the governors who select the candidates. this is unacceptable, and from the point of view of the union, as we understand democracy and i would say from the point of view of the promises made by beijing many years ago. of course, i was pleasantly surprised by the predominantly peaceful nature of the demonstrations and i hope that both sides will continue to show restraint and avoid the use of force, because if the situation were to become complicated in terms of violence, things would certainly take on a very serious dimension. yesterday's dialogue can, i believe, be a step towards finding a mutually acceptable solution, but for that, i believe the beijing authorities must show an open attitude and accept the demands for more representativeness in the process of determining the candidates.
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union strongly supports the introduction of universal suffrage in hong kong, in line with the basic law and the principle of 'one country, two systems', and in accordance with the will of the people of hong kong. we are aware that this is a complicated and delicate process. we hope that a balanced solution can be found which is in accordance with democratic principles. the european union, in full respect of the principle of sovereignty, is prepared to offer all kinds of support, including technical advice and sharing our experience of democratic development. i encourage the european parliament to continue to support a deeper democratization of hong kong. the members of this new parliament will no doubt have the opportunity to visit hong kong and to receive visits from members of the legislative council of hong kong. exchanges on democratic practices and deepening relations with the legislative council could play a very positive role. we express our concern at the wave of arrests in mainland china in connection with the dissemination of information or expressions of solidarity with the pro-democracy movement in hong kong. the european union calls on china to respect the freedoms of opinion, information and peaceful assembly, in accordance with the chinese constitution and the country's international commitments. the promotion and protection of human rights are essential for china's stable development, for its deepening relations with the european union and for its role as a responsible actor on the international stage. we will continue to monitor developments closely and to express our views clearly if necessary. we will continue to do our utmost to promote respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and democratic principles in hong kong, as well as in the rest of the world.
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since pakistan began its transition to democracy in 2008, the european union has strengthened its relations with pakistan. the adoption in 2012 of a five-year plan has broadened and deepened our political dialogue. in this context, we are discussing a number of issues, including governance and human rights. the granting of the generalised system of preferences (gsp+) to pakistan from 1 january this year provides a further opportunity for deepening dialogue and assessing progress on human rights. since 2008, pakistan has maintained a moratorium on the death penalty. the european union regularly reiterates to pakistan its firm stance against the death penalty, which is a cruel and inhuman punishment. the eu delegation is constantly monitoring the situation and calls on pakistan to maintain the moratorium. during the 2014 strategic dialogue, pakistan confirmed its intention to maintain the moratorium. blasphemy laws are the most important tool of oppression of religious minorities and stipulate that insulting the koran is punishable by life imprisonment and that using derogatory terms against the prophet is punishable by death. a number of death sentences for blasphemy have been issued by numerous courts, but none have been carried out so far. usually, defendants are acquitted or released on bail by the courts of appeal. this means that they may spend several years in prison awaiting trial. the main criticism of the laws is that the punishment death penalty is disproportionate to the nature of the crime. however, another serious concern is that a considerable number of cases of blasphemy are based on false statements. the complaint is made, in most cases against muslims, but also against non-muslims, to resolve personal disputes or to fuel sectarian and interfaith tensions. such abuse seems to have increased dramatically in recent decades. pakistan has acknowledged the abuses and has committed to do everything possible to prevent them. as stated in the european union guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief, adopted by the foreign affairs council on 23 june 2013, 'laws criminalising blasphemy and restricting freedom of religion or belief [...] may have a serious inhibitory effect on freedom of expression and freedom of religion or belief; the european union recommends the decriminalisation of these offences.' the eu will also strongly oppose the use of the death penalty, corporal punishment or deprivation of liberty as sanctions for blasphemy. in the case of asia bibi, the european union is following developments very closely. last thursday, the lahore high court upheld the verdict of the trial court, which sentenced her to death for blasphemy in 2010. asia bibi now has 30 days to appeal to the supreme court of pakistan. the high representative/vice-president has repeatedly expressed his regret and deep concern at the decision of the lahore court to uphold the death sentence of asia bibi. cathy ashton hoped the verdict would be overturned quickly by the supreme court. the european union calls on pakistan to ensure full respect for all its citizens for the human rights enshrined in the international conventions to which it is a party. asia bibi is the first woman to be sentenced to death for the crime of blasphemy and her case has raised a lot of hype in europe. nevertheless, his case is not unique. let me congratulate the european parliament on its strong commitment to human rights in pakistan, expressed through numerous resolutions and political mobilization. the european union, through its delegation in islamabad, will continue to follow asia bibi's case closely and to call for her release. although the european union does not consider itself to be intervening in an ongoing judicial proceeding, it will consider raising this case and the wider issue of the death penalty and the blasphemy law with its pakistani counterpart. we will continue to urge the government in islamabad to consider reducing the number of crimes punishable by the death penalty and to respect its obligations towards freedom of expression and freedom of religion and belief. these issues were discussed in the human rights dialogue held in islamabad in june. the next opportunity will be next week when the special representative stavros lambrinidis visits pakistan. finally, as i have already mentioned, the gsp+ regime provides a very useful framework for assessing and promoting human rights progress in pakistan. thank you, mr. president, thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the epp group. in the last term, we addressed asia bibi's situation and the issue of pakistan's blasphemy laws in four resolutions. despite these pressures, asia bibi's appeal against her death sentence was rejected by a court last week. the conviction is simply absurd and i would like to recall the circumstances that gave rise to this important debate in pakistani society and that led to the unfortunate conviction. so in 2009, asia bibi took water from a well and offered it to another woman, a muslim woman, who refused it on the pretext that asia is a christian and that the water is therefore impure. there was an altercation, and asia bibi is today on trial for blasphemy, and more than that, she is on death row awaiting execution by hanging. i would like to remind you that while they provide for the death penalty, the blasphemy laws in pakistan do not contain any standards of proof, nor a requirement to prove a specific intent, nor a penalty for false allegations, and worse than all of this, they do not contain any clear indication of what constitutes blasphemy. the laws are often used for personal vendettas and to persecute religious minorities and especially christians. the case of asia bibi is emblematic of this. i hope that the appeal to the supreme court of pakistan will remedy this injustice and that the rule of law will be restored. on the other hand, the possibility of pardoning asia bibi provided for in the constitution must also be considered to end the ordeal of this woman. i also hope that the security of asia bibi and her family will be ensured by the pakistani authorities. indeed, we must not forget that once a person is accused of blasphemy, his security and that of his family is at stake. the vast majority of people accused of blasphemy in pakistan do not, by the way, end up being executed, but are either lynched or killed while in custody. asia bibi's family has been forced into hiding by death threats and fears, according to statements in the press, that she will be killed once released. beyond that, i think the pakistani authorities must urgently revoke the blasphemy laws, so that such abusive trials, which have nothing to do with the idea of justice and tolerance, do not get any faster.
mr president, we can all see what is going on in northern syria, especially in the town of kobane, in eastern syria, as well as in the north-west of iraq, where the largest iraqi governorate, al-anbar, is under the total control of isis. how does isis make advances despite the air strikes? we see that, each and every day, european union countries are counting their european citizens leaving europe to join isis. a terrorist organisation that should not have to be named a state; a terrorist organisation which poses a huge threat to the middle east’s security and stability, to syria, iraq and now lebanon’s territorial integrity and, last but not least, to the security of the whole of the european union. european countries should take immediate new tough measures to check and control the threatening situation created by european citizens travelling to the areas of conflict in the middle east to join isis and then coming back to europe with military training, well-trained in terrorist tactics and actions. cooperation with turkey has to be increased as well, in order to strengthen its control of the borders with iraq and syria, to prevent and stop potential isis fighters joining the areas of conflict and to identify european isis fighters trying to return to europe. we need to see increased cooperation between the schengen states and romania and bulgaria, candidate countries to the schengen agreement, in order to take immediate, specific measures to more closely identify and monitor people travelling to turkey through south-eastern european countries and, of course, suspect people coming back to the european area.
madam president, in the past five years, the eu has helped broker a deal on iran’s nuclear weapons, syria’s dismantling of chemical weapons and belgrade’s dialogue with pristina. two years ago, the eu received the nobel peace prize. i am proud of the eu and its role in the world. but today the political and security landscape has changed, and for the worse. our success and our credibility in the world, and before our own citizens, rest in our ability to tackle challenges on our very doorstep. and we are being challenged in our own neighbourhood, both to the east and to the south. dear colleagues, the world has changed and the eu needs to have a strategy, a new european security strategy which clearly identifies objectives, instruments and partners. the new vice-president/high representative mogherini has the determination and vision to lead the union in the world. before this house she acknowledged the importance of having this strategic, collective reflection. let us not miss this opportunity. our citizens and the world are watching.
madam president, many of us want a social europe. for that we need low prices for agricultural support products, for transport, for machinery, everything to be able to induce competitiveness throughout the agricultural sector and a fair output in terms of production. austerity policies have brought romania a 24% vat on all food products. the 15% reduction in vat on the whole bread production line was a positive measure. the price of bread fell by more than 10%, tax evasion fell by 20% and production increased by the same 20%. we've saved 136 million euros in less than a year. the measure has proven to be beneficial both for citizens and for the industry. such measures are beneficial for european agriculture. i believe that a detailed analysis by the commission can serve as a conclusive argument for an enlarged fiscal policy at the level of the european union.
madam president, in 2009 the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to memorial for its contribution to the fight for human rights and democracy – core, non-negotiable values of the eu, and principles to which russia, as a full member of the council of europe, the oecd and the un, has committed itself. this house is deeply concerned about the action of the russian authorities against independent human rights organisations and civil society groups. we all understand their essential role in today’s society and their universal value – no matter what the region, political system or culture. the time has come for the moscow leadership to act responsibly and put an end to all acts of harassment, including at legal and judicial level, against memorial and all other human rights defenders. only a genuine and constructive commitment to shared values and principles on the part of the russian federation, a commitment without ambiguities, can help to restore eu-russia relations.
madam president, clearly the closing down of memorial in russia represents a threat to human rights, democratic values and liberties, civil rights and citizens’ rights, and should be condemned by all democratic countries. at the same time we can see what is going on nowadays in russia, with what i would call russia’s new imperial goals that are threatening our security in europe. we have seen what happened with the seizing of the crimean peninsula and what happened in eastern ukraine and now we see that russia has moved the challenge game to the baltic sea. i think all these actions should be thoroughly condemned by the european union countries. at the same time, we have all seen that union negotiations have failed to provide gas to ukraine this winter, and russia is again using this energy weapon to have an influence on next sunday’s elections in ukraine.
the situation in uzbekistan is worrying, very worrying in terms of respect for human rights, although the uzbek authorities have made serious commitments in this regard. thousands of people have been imprisoned, as it has been said, tortured on politically motivated charges, opposition activists, human rights defenders, journalists or believers. i support my colleagues who initiated this resolution and believe that the uzbek authorities must immediately release political prisoners, immediately and unconditionally end all forms of torture and abuse in prison and ill-treatment in pre-trial detention. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. we must make every effort, ladies and gentlemen, and use all the instruments at our disposal to persuade the uzbek authorities to implement their commitments.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes) – before the vote:
ms collins, we will bring this to the attention of the president of parliament and we will look into it.
ms le pen, for your request to be put to the vote you have to be supported by 40 meps. we are now counting. apparently there are 40 so, colleagues, we have to take this into consideration in accordance with rule 188. before that we need a speaker in favour and a speaker against. who wants to speak in favour of referring back to committee? who wants to speak against referring back to committee? thank you. mr landsbergis, as rapporteur you have the floor.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. - the extension of the period of application of regulation (eu) no 374/2014 until the end of 2015 is important to maintain a high level of support for ukraine and to increase the certainty of the trade conditions. the autonomous trade measures will encourage ukrainian producers and companies to direct their exports to the european market rather than to the increasingly restrictive russian market. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the progress made in the implementation of this decision. i support this.
in writing. - i believe that facilitating ukrainian exports is a moral, political and geostrategic imperative for the european union. it is not natural that, in the context of chronicling the ukrainian crisis, we should ask ourselves the question of the economic impact of the growth of ukraine's exports and not only because of the asymmetry within this partnership. the 'minister of foreign affairs' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic' has been appointed by the 'minister of foreign affairs' of the 'donetsk people's republic'. supporting ukraine's efforts to overcome this critical situation is tantamount to supporting its legitimate aspiration to integrate into the european economic and democratic area. the increase of ukraine's exports to the eu in the first half of 2014 by 25% is an encouraging indicator in this regard. i therefore support the resolution and welcome the proposal for an accelerated procedure so that concrete eu action is in line with its political commitments in a timely and effective manner. the elimination or, where appropriate, reduction of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine in particular agri-food products should be followed by further steps towards the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area, in accordance with the association agreement of 27 june 2014.
in writing. - the decision of the european union unilaterally to extend market access to ukrainian goods on its territory until the end of 2015 is a an act of generosity, showing that there is no such thing as a ‘geopolitical plot’ against any of ukraine’s traditional partners, notably russia. russia’s products will be free of direct competition from eu products in ukraine, which is a painful condition imposed by russia on ukraine and accepted by the eu as part of its effort to facilitate a peaceful resolution of the ukrainian crisis. in order to enforce this arrangement, the eu agreed to give up on its own market access to ukraine, as negotiated in the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta), the full enforcement of which will have to wait until 2016. it is a selfless response from the eu, in stark contrast to any zero-sum ‘encirclement’ game. i am also particularly reassured by the introduction of a provision for democracy and human rights conditionality to be respected by ukraine in exchange for the trade preferences. ukraine has to behave as a modern liberal democracy, respecting human rights, including minority rights, in order to have the continued solidarity of western liberal democracies. with the inclusion of these conditions, i was happy to support the measure.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the commission's proposal to extend trade preferences to ukraine. the commission's proposal to extend the existing trade preferences until 31 december 2015 covers the period until the entry into force of the eu-ukraine free trade agreement (dcfta). this decision demonstrates once again the eu's commitment to support ukraine's european path. it is part of a series of decisions by which the union is concretely demonstrating its commitment to its eastern partnership commitments towards its partners, whether ukraine, the republic of moldova or georgia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr tamás deutsch, member of the european parliament, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, because i am convinced that the line of argument by which he rejects the discharge of the european council and the council is justified. this report follows the european parliament's postponement of the discharge of the two institutions in april this year. the report regrets that the council did not cooperate, the requested data were not provided, without which the european parliament cannot take an appropriate decision on the discharge. the document proposes to establish a 'modus vivendis' between the ep and the council on this subject, so that parliament can exercise its powers.
madam president, romanian citizens, like other european citizens, want one simple thing: that the income of individuals and companies that are made in a country be fully declared and taxed in that country. it's a simple thing to do. unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. there are countless business, tax, accounting practices whereby income is moved from one tax jurisdiction to another tax jurisdiction, legally or illegally, to avoid being taxed. we have made progress in tackling tax evasion through this extension of the principle of reporting, automatic information, automatic exchange of information. unfortunately, the information that has emerged recently with a number of tax practices in luxembourg, but as president juncker told us today, such practices are also found in 21 other member states, has certainly rightly disturbed european citizens. i trust that the european commission will come up with an objective answer to these problems and the necessary measures to reduce tax evasion.
ms matias, i was going to give you the floor so i will not take the blue card at this stage, but i will give you the floor.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have listened carefully to the honourable members’ opinions and questions and i thank them for this debate, which was both necessary and useful. the fight against tax fraud and tax avoidance is the priority of my mandate as commissioner for taxation and i will not stop repeating that. i will use every instrument at my disposal to achieve the concrete results that europe needs, that citizens expect and that you ask for. existing projects and new ideas like the automatic exchange of information, of tax rulings, will be fostered with strength and conviction. we are also going to look into the interesting proposals that have been raised today and i can assure each of you that every useful tool will be analysed and assessed. je dirai quelques mots sur deux questions qui sont revenues dans plusieurs interventions. d'abord, sur l'établissement de rapports par pays. comme vous le savez, la commission reste engagée sur une approche ambitieuse, que nous allons promouvoir au g20 dans le cadre des travaux de l'ocde. je souhaite aussi examiner de quelle manière la transparence sur les décisions fiscales anticipées peut également passer par des obligations mises à la charge des entreprises bénéficiaires. la question de l'optionnalité de l'accise se pose, je le reconnais volontiers. il faudra que la commission réexamine comment le projet qui est actuellement sur la table peut mieux répondre à la lutte contre l'érosion des bases taxables. je saisirai le collège de cette question. de manière générale, il y a d'ailleurs une question qui se pose sur la reprise des travaux en matière d'harmonisation fiscale et que je veux empoigner. plusieurs hypothèses existent et plusieurs formes de travail existent. soit nous reprenons des propositions qui sont déjà sur la table, soit nous les reprenons de manière plus séquentielle ou différente, soit encore nous nous appuyons sur des coopérations renforcées. je ne veux rien exclure ici. mesdames et messieurs les députés, tout à l'heure, m. lamberts disait que j'avais une réputation à faire. ce n'est pas du tout le sens de ce que je veux faire. j'ai un engagement à concrétiser. je suis très conscient, à travers vos diverses interventions, qu'il y a là un sujet – la lutte contre l'évasion fiscale, l'érosion des bases fiscales, la fraude fiscale – qui est décisif pour le citoyen, qui est très sensible pour nos opinions et auquel nous n'avons pas le droit de nous dérober. dans les circonstances présentes, il y a deux réponses à donner. la première, s'agissant des enquêtes, a été donnée: il s'agit de laisser les choses avancer avec indépendance, dans la transparence, avec toute la diligence et la vigilance qui sont souhaitées et souhaitables. sur ce point, le président juncker a pris des engagements, bien sûr, et mme vestager aura à cœur de les tenir dans sa fonction. la seconde est qu'il faut être, sur les sujets dont nous parlons maintenant de lutte contre l'évasion fiscale, extrêmement offensifs, extrêmement ambitieux. c'est bien le sens de ce que je veux faire dans l'exercice des fonctions qui m'ont été attribuées. nous aurons à reparler de tout cela, souvent, à travers des mesures législatives qui seront présentées progressivement au parlement européen. j'ai bien entendu la tonalité des débats politiques, n'ayez aucun doute sur la détermination de cette commission et sur la mienne, personnelle, à nous engager dans ce combat.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. tax evasion at european level amounts to almost €1 trillion. an impressive amount that could have been used to implement solutions and initiatives leading to job creation and social measures in the field of education and health. tax evasion is stealing! tax havens are stealing! exploiting legal loopholes is stealing! the commission adopted a 30-point action plan in 2012. how many of these measures have been implemented? we need a european tax plan to combat this scourge. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. but fighting tax evasion also means better tax education and information. europe must inform the taxpayer and assure him that his money is being used correctly and in his interest.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the court of auditors' annual report 2013 (2014/2867 ((rsp)). i would like to begin by welcoming the president of the court of auditors, mr da silva caldeira. i would also like to give the floor to mr da silva caldeira first. mr. caldeira, you have the floor.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to start by reiterating some of the content of the resolution to be voted on tomorrow. we are extremely concerned about turkey's presence in the exclusive economic zone of a member state of the european union, cyprus. this has to be stopped immediately. we call on turkey to comply with its obligations under both international law and its status as a candidate country for accession to the european union and to withdraw its vessels from european union waters. that said, the members of the socialist and democratic group wholeheartedly support and reaffirm here and now the integration of turkey into the european union. we are confident that our dialogue with our turkish partners will continue and will have a win-win outcome. turkey is a strategic partner for the european union, and therefore as long as turkey is attached to the relationship with the european union, it will have to receive guarantees from the union regarding its european future. i would like to conclude by expressing our group's unconditional support for the continuation of the reunification negotiations between the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot sides. i am confident that the resumption of unconditional reunification negotiations is the answer to the cyprus problem, and that the exploitation of hydrocarbons will be beneficial to both communities, to cyprus as a whole, and to the states in the region, which will be involved in the exploitation.
mr president, a lot has already been said, and i think that there is no need for many words. i think the most important thing we have to say at this point is that turkey, a nato member, a close partner of the union, a candidate country, needs to show responsible behaviour and avoid unilateral actions. it's clear that what he's doing right now is unacceptable. but i would like to refer to what a colleague said earlier, mr mavrides, who compared the conflict between turkey and cyprus to the cold war. i think we have to keep a sense of proportion, there is nothing in common between what the war between the communist bloc and the free world meant and, respectively, on the other hand, this turkish-cypriot conflict. and by the way, i want to tell you that i was shocked to find out today, by the way and by the sense of proportion, that in the debate on the anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, the longest speech was given by a communist. i personally, coming from a country that has lived through this experience, believe that the memory of the hundreds of thousands of people who died during communism has been insulted, when today communism... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i would like to draw attention to a very serious problem that occurred in romania in the presidential elections on 2 november, when the right to vote was violated, especially for the more than 3 million romanian citizens outside the country's borders. the government led by prime minister victor ponta, a candidate for the romanian presidency, decided to set up only 294 polling stations abroad, and these were poorly distributed, with only one polling station in communities with tens of thousands of romanians. romanian diplomats in these countries drew attention to these shortcomings, and local authorities in various countries expressed their willingness to support this electoral process, but victor ponta, as prime minister, took no action. the resignation of the foreign minister, titus corlatean, and his replacement, but without increasing the number of polling stations, is not likely to solve this problem for the second round on november 16, as it continues to violate a fundamental right, namely the right to choose, provided for by the universal declaration of human rights.
mr president, after the launching of the european union’s common security and defence policy (csdp) and its inclusion within the treaty of lisbon, some steps have been taken towards endowing that policy with the institutional structures and military instruments necessary to make it an effective mechanism for dealing with insecurity in europe’s geopolitical neighbourhood. new challenges are emerging which should provide new impetus for the csdp. firstly, the complicated security situation in the middle east, especially in syria and iraq, posed by the islamic state. secondly, the dangerous situation for europe’s security and stability posed by separatists and russia in southern and eastern ukraine, which constitutes a direct threat to the european union and nato countries in eastern and south-eastern europe. now is another moment when europe has to deal with the lack of integration of the military structures of the eu member states. the participation of the eu member states in an increased number of csdp interventions has not resulted in a real harmonisation or deeper integration of military structures or a maximisation of synergies. the eu needs urgently to develop the security and defence instruments available, but unused, under the lisbon treaty, and particularly pesco and the start-up fund. it also needs to galvanise the european defence industry on large collaborative projects and, definitely, the step-by-step integration of the military structures of the member states, in collaboration with nato.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. - mr president, mr speaker of the moldovan parliament, commissioner. i will briefly summarise the reasons why i strongly believe we should support this agreement. first and foremost because it is a free choice, a free people, free europeans on either side of the eu-moldova border. i do hope that the age of geopolitical carve-outs of countries and territories has forever come to an end in europe, and then nobody can possibly oppose the free will of free people democratically represented. from a more purely economic point of view, the agreement, and the dcfta bit in it, opens a whole world of opportunity for the moldovan economy. it will have access to the biggest market on the planet. it will create incentives for fdi flows into the moldovan economy, which should be transformed, modernised, evolved towards a high-value-added type of economy. the transformation of institutions provided for by the dcfta will also create a more stable environment for moldovan businesses, for moldovan citizens; there will be less scope for arbitrariness of elites of any kind. all in all this has been made possible by an unprecedented performance of the current government in chișinău, and we wish them luck in the coming weeks.
mr. president, a few moments earlier, another colleague was talking about the expansionist tendencies of bucharest. it's such a great aberration, resembling exactly, word for word, the soviet union's propaganda on this subject. unfortunately, those words were spoken in the most honorable language. it's not worth wasting seconds of this minute on that. i wanted to say just a few words about moldova, which i know very well, i have many friends there, i speak the same language with them, or they with me. it's a land that's thousands of kilometres from brussels, between two waters, a lot of gentle hills, full of vines above, and underneath full of wineries where very old and very good wines sit. i keep them there underground because all the great wars have passed over them, and back and forth, that's why i keep them underneath. history has been very unfair to them, and yet there are people born and living there who are talented, smart and just as normal and competent as those who live here in the european union. i say this, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a huge expectation about the european union, an expectation that sometimes lasts a lifetime. i say this so that you know, so that you are convinced that every gesture, every hand extended to them is a good deed.
mr president, i have proposed that in the text of our resolution a reference be made to the statement by which the chisinau government announces that it will apply for membership of the european union next year. i am glad that the motion was accepted and is in the joint resolution. why did i insist on this? because we used to say that moldova was just the model pupil of the eastern partnership, and that is still the case today. is that enough? does this reflect what's happened in the last few years in the little republic? the formula certainly says something about the efforts of the pro-european coalition that has governed the country for the past five years, but it says little about the fierce opposition to block those efforts by the party of communists of moldova, a party with an organizational culture inspired by hard-line stalinism. it's true that in terms of admiration for russia, the communist party was surpassed only by the socialist party. yes, dear colleagues, moldova is the only place in the world where the socialists are to the left of the communists. we have, on the other hand, become accustomed to associating moldova and ukraine. even in our documents, we have copied the formulas used for kiev in the texts about chisinau countless times. i think it's time we uncoupled them. just as slovenia was separated in the late 1990s from the other countries, smaller or larger, built on the ruins of the former yugoslavia, so moldova must now be separated from the other eastern neighbours that emerged after the collapse of the former ussr. otherwise, the more for more principle is meaningless, because moldova is more advanced legally and more politically stable not only compared to the other eastern partnership members, but also compared to other western balkan countries. and that's why it's frustrating for moldovans and unfair from the point of view of european values that this reality is not categorically recognized.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur and his colleagues for the content, the excellent text and the political message we are sending today to the people of the republic of moldova, regardless of ethnicity, origin or language. the ratification of the association agreement is a recognition of the huge progress and reforms made by the chisinau authorities. the european vocation of the people of the prut is recognized today once again! today's vote in the european parliament will show everyone that there is an absolute consensus on the european path of the republic of moldova. the association agreement is not the end of a process, it is the end of a stage. relations between the european union and the republic of moldova are closer than ever. and this journey now has a road map. the association agreement provides the republic of moldova with the framework and tools to achieve a higher standard of living, a more efficient administration, an improved rule of law, institutional transparency and, above all, a clear european perspective. the process of rapprochement with europe continues and it is absolutely essential that the new parliament and government in chisinau, formed after the elections, remain determined to implement reforms, to improve society, institutions and to adopt european values. i have a message today for the people and colleagues of the republic of moldova, for the authorities in chisinau: you are not alone! romania and victor ponta are with you! you can count on us, the european parliament, the parliamentary association committee, whose president i have the honour to be, in your efforts to implement effective policies for the benefit of all people, for their well-being, jobs and social equity. mr president, on this european journey, the european parliament will continue to be your strong ally and a fair friend.
mr president, moldova is the last piece of latinity outside the european union. it has unequivocally adopted a pro-european orientation and has undertaken for some years now a package of deep-cutting reforms. equally it stands under huge pressures from russia which has no hesitation in exploiting the conflict both inside her borders – transnistria – and outside her borders – ukraine. the signing and ratification of the association agreement with the eu under such difficult circumstances is to be commended. elections are to be held soon and the hope is that the pro-eu political forces will win, in spite of the usual manoeuvrings on the part of moscow. if the vote in the first round of romania’s current presidential elections is an indication, then we could expect a positive result in the november elections. naturally, reforms should continue and the report has the merit of indicating how much is still to be achieved. equally, moldova should continue her efforts contributing to a solution to the conflict in transnistria. the eu, which has done so much to support moldova up till now, should continue to help her achieve both. (the speaker agree to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – exactly the contrary. this is liberating moldova from russian colonialism.
blue-card question. – i would like to know whether you are aware of where russia figures on that hate list.
mr president, i was the chairman of the delegation to the european union parliamentary commission with the republic of moldova in the previous legislature and i know the people, i know the institutions, i have been to chisinau and tiraspol dozens of times, i know the efforts made by the citizens of the republic of moldova and the institutions on the road to the european union. and as we all know, the republic of moldova is the most advanced on this path and has made the most efforts. this is about people, this is about breaking communism, and breaking communism is very hard, that's why we have to help them and be with them. today's agreement by parliament and the call on the member states to ratify this association agreement are absolutely necessary, and are, you know, only the first big step for what is to come, namely integration into the european union. political stability in the region, stability in the republic of moldova, all of this is necessary, for the european union and for the people of the republic of moldova. let's be realistic: in what is happening today in europe, given the aggression of the russian federation, which is behaving increasingly aggressively, and blackmailing the republic of moldova, it is necessary to be with the republic of moldova, it is necessary to be with any state that is subject to such aggression, precisely to strengthen democracy and to help the people of these countries to remain in democracy, and as i said, to break definitively from a period of very ugly dictatorship. therefore, let us ratify in good faith and ratify with the desire to help the republic of moldova, to bring it into the european family as soon as possible, as close as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of moldova is a country where people already speak one of the official languages of the european union, romanian. the republic of moldova is a relatively small country, with only 4 million inhabitants, so our effort to bring the republic of moldova closer to the european union is not very great. at the same time, however, europe is a major theme in the republic of moldova. citizens are being asked to choose between the pro-european governing coalition and the communists who want vladimir putin's integration into the eurasian union in the european parliament elections, and the russian federation is obviously putting significant pressure on this. that is why i believe we must communicate to the citizens of the republic of moldova that their rapprochement with europe brings concrete benefits. any signal matters and your visit there last week, commissioner, was an extremely good thing. the european union wants a strong and developed republic of moldova, while the russian federation wants a weak and blackmailed republic of moldova. therefore, we must use all the means at our disposal to bring moldova closer to the european union, and i propose a concrete project, namely: to increase the knowledge of europe in the republic of moldova, i propose an extensive programme of exchanges of officials between the republic of moldova and other countries of the eastern neighbourhood and the institutions of the european union, a programme funded by the european union.
the association agreement is a historic event for the republic of moldova, but also for the future of the european union. the republic of moldova has in recent years embarked on the path of european integration, even if this path has not always been easy. we, the meps, and the european commission, must not forget that for the eastern countries, and especially for the republic of moldova, european integration has required special efforts, which reinforce the symbolism of the european model. more than ever, europe must demonstrate in the republic of moldova the advantages offered by the european union. we need to support the development of the republic of moldova with european funds, we need to support modernization through exchange of experience. we need to accelerate integration through dialogue. finally, as a member of the european parliament with a representative office in chisinau, i am proud of the progress made in the republic of moldova. all pro-european political forces, both right and left, have shown that this project of national union of european integration transcends political interests. it is in the interest of the european union that the republic of moldova continue this process. the republic of moldova can become strong and prosperous only together with the european union. i am convinced that the upcoming parliamentary elections will confirm the support of the citizens of the republic of moldova for european integration.
in writing. the signing of the association agreement with the eu confirms that the republic of moldova is on the european path and thus reaffirms its commitment to the values of the european union. in the parliamentary elections in november, moldovan citizens will demonstrate that their options are pro-european and thus be able to offer a real lesson in democracy. i would stress that, on the other hand, it is the joint effort of all the member states and not the merit of the ponta government, as a romanian mep, a member of the socialist group, has said. moldova will continue on its european path and the signs are already being felt. europe has the necessary mechanisms to guarantee economic growth, to modernise the sectors that are lacking, or to exploit the specific development potential that it possesses. in concrete terms, the introduction of autonomous trade preferences for moldova will facilitate and encourage trade in agricultural products with the eu. the elimination of customs duties will open up new development opportunities for moldovan farmers, their products will be more accessible on neighbouring european markets. in order to remove bottlenecks and overcrowding of some markets, the commission should pursue the traceability of imported products and ensure as uniform a distribution as possible on eu markets so that we can ensure that prices of moldovan products are maintained at a competitive level.
in writing. i welcome the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, which will lead to the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area with the eu, creating new opportunities for trade and bringing benefits to businesses and citizens of the republic of moldova. in view of the trade restrictions applied by the russian federation to certain products from the republic of moldova, which have led to a severe imbalance in the economy of the republic of moldova, the agreement concluded today will contribute to economic growth, creating jobs, prosperity and stability across the prut. this agreement encourages the citizens and authorities of the republic of moldova to continue on the essential path towards the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law, a free, competitive market economy and provides a clearer perspective for the european destiny of the republic of moldova.
in writing. ratification of the eu agreement is vital for the republic of moldova. the citizens of this country must be supported in their closeness to the european union. moldova has proved to be pro-european through the reforms it has adopted, despite huge pressure from russia. the agreement is a factor of stability in the area. i believe that the eu should continue to support the republic of moldova in its reforms.
in writing. the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova is a step forward on the european path of the republic of moldova and a concrete support for the development of this country. i also now affirm that the european union must provide the republic of moldova with a clear roadmap for becoming a candidate country for accession to the european union in the period ahead. on 30 november 2014, parliamentary elections will be held in the republic of moldova. it is important that the pro-european political forces win. otherwise, the communist and socialist parties will steer the country on a different path from the european one. i believe that the president of the european council and the president of the european commission should visit the republic of moldova next week and present to the population the advantages of maintaining the country's european path.
in writing. the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova marks a moment of historic significance for the entire european union and in particular for romania and the republic of moldova. moldova is taking a new step towards its european destiny, alongside romania. the european parliament is helping to spread eu values and principles in the republic of moldova and i am proud that we, the romanian meps within s&d, are in the middle of these events, are active and are willing to make available to moldova all our experience in all that european integration means. i am convinced that the time when the republic of moldova will be part of the european union, as a full member, is not far away. what happened today in the european parliament gives me confidence that prosperity and democracy will only be guaranteed at the regional level if we are united and if we realise that the promotion of the fundamental values on which the european union is based must be exported to the extra-community level. i welcome the ratification of the eu-moldova association agreement as a historic moment and thank all my colleagues in the european parliament for supporting this project that will establish peace and prosperity in the eastern european region.
mr president, we propose that in amendment no 3 we eliminate the mention of countries, but keep the reference to the whole region. we agree with the other political groups to do so.
in writing. - parliamentary immunity is an anachronism in europe. i will always vote for its lifting, as well as vote for its abolition as a principle of constitutional law. which is not to say that i don't naturally presume any citizen is innocent until proven guilty by a court of law. moreover, human empathy is not incompatible with justice, which must always be done without hesitation, selective blindness and compromise, but also without hatred, passion, bias.
in writing. - the financial crisis has hit the eu economy hard, which has led to a decline in consumption. sprider stores is a classic example of a company that was unable to cope with the financial problems caused by the crisis and thus could not avoid bankruptcy, laying off 750 employees. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the restructuring plan is in line with the restructuring plan. it is therefore very important that workers made redundant benefit from financial support through the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to support those affected by developing new skills and guidance towards vocational retraining. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that measures to support redundant employees are absolutely necessary as an intermediate step towards their reintegration into the labour market. the personalised assistance services provided by the greek authorities before the decision to grant the egf aid are a relevant solution to resolve the current situation. the initiative to include 550 young people who are not in employment in personalised services is a locally designed action plan to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. – the european global adjustment fund was created to support workers suffering from the negative consequences of the major structural changes taking place in the world. the egf consequently plays an indirect, but fundamental role: it increases the credibility, legitimacy and trust in the european institutions. this instrument raises awareness on the fact that europe stands by the side of its citizens to help them face the consequences of the current dramatic situation. i support extended use of this financial instrument, especially when this is in favour of the countries that are suffering a deep recession and of the countries where, due to the economic crisis, workers are sustaining a decrease in salaries, a rise in the tax burden and growing unemployment, factors that might threaten the social and political stability of the local and regional context. taking into account the fact that this contribution will mostly favour women and young workers, as well as the fact that the application from greece meets the requirements for a financial contribution by the egf, i would like to make clear that the allocation of eur 7 290 900 from the egf for the workers of sprider store meets europe’s best interests and has my full support.
in writing. - as rapporteur for the application egf/2014/009 el/sprider stores, i voted in favour of this project as greece has made significant progress in recent years. furthermore, i support the allocation of the globalisation adjustment funds as they are effective and constructive mechanisms to support job creation.
in writing. – by ratifying the association agreement, the european parliament acknowledged the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan people and authorities; it conveyed a strong signal of support and encouragement to their legitimate aspirations. a lot of progress has been made in the past five years and the ratification is a strong sign of recognition of these achievements. the vote showed that there is absolute consensus in this house on moldova’s domestic advancement, on eu-moldova relations, on our common priorities and on the path ahead. today the eu and moldova are closer than ever before; and this journey now has a clear roadmap for moldova’s european path. it is now crucial for the new parliament and executive of the republic of moldova to keep political momentum for reforms. and in this important political process, the people and authorities of moldova are not alone. chisinau can count on the european parliament, the s&d group and the delegation to the parliamentary association committee, which i chair, to implement effective and ambitious policies to the benefit of all moldovans for a fairer growth, jobs and more social justice, for families, and for women. we will be staunch supporters and strong allies in this process.
in writing. – the historic agreement endorsed today is enshrining politically moldova’s belonging to the western world. it will create opportunities for moldova’s economy by giving it access to the largest market on the planet. this will facilitate fdi inflows, improvement of the technological base of the moldovan economy, an increase in productivity and therefore the income of moldovan citizens. the regulatory reforms of moldovan institutions will make life more predictable and fair for moldovan businesses and citizens. reform efforts will have to continue, and the unprecedented reform record of the government during recent years shows reason for optimism. i was most happy to support this historic watershed.
in writing. - the signing of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova is a historic moment. i voted for this agreement out of respect for the citizens of the republic of moldova, to support the european path and european integration of the republic of moldova, to show that europe supports and supports the republic of moldova and the pro-european parties in their attempt to democratize and develop the country.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. i believe that this partnership is beneficial for both sides, contributing to the economic growth desired by both the eu and the republic of moldova. following today's ratification of this agreement, the republic of moldova becomes the first eastern partnership country to enjoy visa-free travel to the union.
mr president, i very much supported the association agreement between the republic of moldova and the european union because this represents a very important step forward on the republic of moldovaʼs path towards its reintegration in europe. geographically and culturally, the republic of moldova was – and is – part of the area of south-eastern europe. now, politically and geostrategically, the republic of moldova is coming back to europe, to where the people of this country belong normally. the citizens of the republic of moldova will benefit the most from the association agreement. the citizens of the republic of moldova need, and deserve, our support and the support of the european union.
in writing. – by ratifying the association agreement, the european parliament acknowledged the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan people and authorities; it conveyed a strong signal of support and encouragement to their legitimate aspirations. a lot of progress has been made in the past five years and the ratification is a strong sign of recognition of these achievements. the vote showed that there is absolute consensus in this house on moldova's domestic advancement, on eu-moldova relations, on our common priorities and on the path ahead. today the eu and moldova are closer than ever before; and this journey now has a clear road map for moldova's european path. it is now crucial for the new parliament and executive of the republic of moldova to keep political momentum for reforms. and in this important political process, the people and authorities of moldova are not alone. chisinau can count on the european parliament, the s&d group and the delegation to the parliamentary association committee, which i chair, to implement effective and ambitious policies to the benefit of all moldovans for a fairer growth, jobs and more social justice, for families, and for women. we will be staunch supporters and strong allies in this process.
in writing. - in essence, the agreement approved today enshrines moldova's freely chosen relationship with western civilization. it's a moment of great satisfaction. in the late 1980s, in piatra neamt, when romanian communist television was either dumb or stupid, i participated, as a viewer, in the explosion of joy with which moldovans rediscovered their national identity. i grew up with legendary artists like sofia rotaru and ion suruceanu in my heart, with doina and ion aldea teodorovici, with eminescu recited by grigore vieru. my love story with moldova is therefore old and authentic. i am glad that over time i have been able to contribute to bringing the citizens of moldova, free people, regardless of ethnicity, into the closest possible association between moldova and the eu at this historic time. i dedicate to the memory of the spouses teodorovici and grigore vieru this vote and my contribution to this agreement.
the peace process in northern ireland is exemplary, despite the recent setbacks. of course, it's important that the parties remain constructive on the issue. the preservation of peace and the promotion of a negotiated solution can in itself serve as an example for other communities. europe must not only focus on conflict resolution, but also on conflict prevention. whether we look at the eu member states or the western balkans, there are still many problems in europe today, which are manifested in the disorder of relations between communities, and these need to be addressed by the european institutions. the eu has played a key role in establishing a peaceful and stable society in northern ireland. the results achieved here show that the eu will continue to be successful in monitoring and playing an active role in resolving intercommunal conflicts, whether in countries bordering or seeking to join the eu or in its own member states.
in writing. - the humanitarian crisis in the world's youngest country continues to worsen, risking the proportions of genocide. the internal conflict has so far claimed thousands of lives and forced more than 1.3 million people to flee their homes and seek refuge as far away as possible from the affected areas. the un has warned that four million sudanese could die of starvation as the civil war has disrupted agricultural activities. if the situation does not stabilise, there is a high risk that general discontent will turn into a real regional conflict. leaders in the intergovernmental agency for development (igad) - the bloc of east african states - must continue efforts to pave the way for inclusive political dialogue, and the eu must continue to support igad and provide staff for the ceasefire monitoring and verification mechanism. at the same time, leaders who take responsibility for serious human rights violations by both sides in the conflict must be held accountable. all countries neighbouring south sudan and regional powers must work together to improve the security situation in the country and the region and find a peaceful and lasting political solution to the current crisis.
mr president, on behalf of the ppe group, we ask for a postponement of the vote on this very sensitive matter. i think we can keep the debate as it is and, seeing what is going to happen in the coming days and weeks in the parliaments of some member states, vote on a joint text in december. i think it is not right that the european parliament should be divided on this very delicate issue at this time.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i can agree with your intervention on the need for reindustrialisation. my question is whether you think that deindustrialization is largely the responsibility of local governments, and not the european parliament. how do you see the involvement of parliament and the commission in reindustrialisation in each country?
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague, davor stier, on the preparation of this report and on his commitment to finding a compromise as broad as possible. it was not easy to find such a compromise, with 466 amendments tabled in the committee on development, a record number which also shows the interest in this subject. i would like to return to some of the ideas which i supported in the amendments tabled in the commission and which are contained in the text under debate. i think we all want the council to adopt a strong negotiating position in december. the union needs to adopt an ambitious and effective common position on the principles and objectives that will form part of the new global framework for development after 2015. if we are to have an impact on poverty reduction, we need a single, comprehensive and integrated framework with clear benchmarks and incorporating the main issues of development and sustainability. as parliament's permanent rapporteur on policy coherence for development, i would like to welcome the reference to this concept in the stier report. the new global development framework must indeed pay particular attention to the links between development and crucial areas such as trade, finance, energy, agriculture and the environment. at union level, policy coherence for development is a well-established concept, but i believe we need to take it to the next level and promote its global take-up.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr stier, our shadow rapporteur, ms elly schlein, and the committee on development for being able to reach, with this report, a strong and comprehensive agreement on the key topics that we need to address in the post-2015 global framework. secondly, i welcome the fact that in this report the core issue of climate change has been recognised as one of the main underlying structural factors that lead to poverty and inequality in the current world. because of climate change, the world will have to face the consequences of struggles over scarce resources, conflict, violence and hunger. rising sea levels endanger entire regions of the planet, and, if we do not act now, there will be an increase in natural disasters, which will continue to cause the death and suffering of hundreds of thousands or millions of people, often in developing countries, who, let us be clear, are the least responsible for climate change. therefore, i really welcome the fact that the framework will be universal and the burden is, hopefully, going to be shared. in order to achieve our post-2015 development goals, we must make sure that our development – not only of developing countries but also of european countries – is going to be sustainable. we must find a way to promote growth while reducing greenhouse gas emissions by changing energy patterns. we must work closely with ngos and private organisations which strive to put these principles into practice. it is still within our power to combat the threats that menace the success of our post-2015 development goals. my hope is that, at the upcoming climate conferences in lima and paris, the eu will be the leader in the global effort to tackle climate change in advance of the un summit in september, since unmitigated climate change creates costs for global development that we absolutely cannot afford. using all means, we have to save the world. it is all we have.
mr president, society is constantly evolving, but problems such as hunger and poverty remain constantly the same, which is why the european union's efforts to help eradicate malnutrition and hunger, and the phenomenon of 'hidden hunger', should focus in particular on children and breastfeeding women. on the other hand, achieving the 'zero hunger' goal cannot be achieved without including the concept of food and nutrition security as a top priority for the new global development framework and linking it to efforts to promote sustainable agriculture, increase agricultural and fisheries productivity, reduce food loss and waste, manage natural resources transparently and adapt to climate change. in this context, we need to recognise the specific needs of women working in agriculture in terms of food security, because women are often the driving force behind smallholdings that take into account traditional land use rights.
commissioner, it is no coincidence that in this chamber almost all my colleagues say the same thing, and instead of adding a list, repeating everything that has been said here, i will say the following. some 100 operational programmes will be adopted by the end of 2014 and a small number of operational programmes will benefit from the 'carry over' procedure. this creates a very complicated situation for policy implementation. i therefore ask you, on behalf of my group and on behalf of those who benefit from the investment policy, which is the very essence of cohesion policy, to do everything within your authority and that of the european commission to enable us first to identify the means to evaluate more rapidly the documents submitted by the member states (this is imperative) and then to enable us to discuss among the member states, the european commission and the european parliament the amendment of the multiannual financial framework, in order to bring up to date these delays which are in fact burdening the financing so necessary for our communities.
commissioner, mr president, we all agree that the european union's cohesion policy is one of the areas with a high impact on citizens. however, with a long implementation cycle, most of the results desired by citizens and local and regional authorities are not visible until after the end of the programming period. how does the commission see the possibility of a more strategic focus of resources on the key priorities in order to achieve the results desired by both the member states and the commission, but also to respond adequately to delays in the launch of cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 period?
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to speak in my own language because i would like to be as clear as possible. there were so many problems here and i would like to tell you: aș vrea să vă spun că sunt cu adevărat conștientă de importanța pe care o are adoptarea programelor operaționale cât mai curând posibil, mai ales pentru țările în care fondurile noastre contribuie cu peste 50 % în cadrul investițiilor publice. aș vrea să vă spun că, încă din prima zi de activitate ca și comisar european pentru politica regională, am transmis o scrisoare tuturor miniștrilor din statele uniunii europene, transmițându-le că este necesar să ne intensificăm eforturile în beneficiul, bineînțeles, al cetățenilor și am avut ocazia să mă întâlnesc cu toți cei 28 de miniștri din statele membre în cadrul consiliului de afaceri pentru politica de coeziune. sunt recunoscătoare președinției italiene că, pentru prima dată, a inaugurat acest cadru de dezbatere între comisarul european pentru politica regională și toți miniștrii pe acest domeniu. am văzut că foarte mulți dintre dumneavoastră au aruncat toată vina pentru aceste întârzieri pe comisia europeană. sigur că are și comisia europeană partea sa de vină, dar vă reamintesc că este o responsabilitate împărțită. principiul „shared responsibility” este cu atât mai puternic aici, în cadrul politicii de coeziune, pentru că cele care elaborează programele, cele care le implementează sunt statele membre, regiunile, autoritățile locale. așa cum a spus domnul van nistelrooij, comisia a anticipat întârzierile și a lansat încă din 2012 discuții pe marginea programelor operaționale, dar trebuie să recunoaștem că adoptarea cadrului financiar multianual și a noii legislații pentru fonduri europene a avut un impact semnificativ asupra abilității statelor membre de a depune programe de calitate în 2014. în primul rând, viteza și succesul depind într-o măsură uriașă de statele membre, pentru că ele trebuie să țină cont de observațiile comisiei, să producă documentele necesare. o să vin în parlamentul european în 8 decembrie. i will be here in the european parliament, in the committee on budgetary control. i will be responsible for how the taxpayers’ money is used. you ask for a more simplified and efficient way, but at the same time control of taxpayers’ money is also needed. eu sper că vom putea adopta nu 100, ci 150 de programe până la sfârșitul anului. vreau însă să vă asigur că am făcut acest „task force” pentru țările cu o absorbție scăzută a fondurilor europene, pentru că sunt țări – am spus și în cadrul consiliului, și în conferința de presă – unde realmente s-au pompat bani fără să se vadă multe rezultate în viața de zi cu zi a oamenilor. este cazul, de pildă, al sudului italiei și sunt gata să merg acolo, să stăm de vorbă cu autoritățile locale, cu regiunile. dacă ați putea să îmi spuneți cum pot eu să aprob un program pentru sudul italiei, care nici măcar nu a fost trimis comisiei europene? cum aș putea? eu nu pot să îmi asum responsabilitatea adoptării acestor programe operaționale fără să fiu asigurată de către toate serviciile comisiei europene că toate cerințele pe care dumneavoastră le-ați cerut aici prin legislația pe care ați adoptat-o sunt îndeplinite. pentru că noi suntem responsabili, așa cum ați spus, pentru utilizarea eficientă a banilor publici. și avem această discuție. am avut discuție în polonia. toate programele operaționale erau concentrate în varșovia și i-am rugat să facă un efort să se aplece asupra estului poloniei, care este o regiune subdezvoltată, pentru că intenția noastră este să reducem decalajele. pentru bulgaria am făcut tot ce am putut. am deblocat banii care erau blocați pentru mediu încă din 2012 pentru că, practic, acum s-au îndeplinit condițiile. este datoria comisiei să suspende plățile, să întrerupă plățile atunci când există o suspiciune sau când olaf intră în acțiune. noi așteptăm ca statul membru să îndeplinească condițiile și, în momentul în care condițiile sunt îndeplinite, am repornit banii pentru programele operaționale, acolo unde s-au întrerupt plățile. într-adevăr, avem această dezbatere continuă cu statele membre și mă bucur că am avut ocazia să stau de vorbă cu miniștrii, pentru că este necesară absorbția dar, așa cum am spus, nu trebuie să facem absorbție de dragul absorbției. trebuie să fim siguri că aceste programe operaționale răspund nevoilor cetățenilor și celor mai vulnerabile grupuri. vreau să vă asigur că veți avea în mine un partener. v-am informat și vă voi informa permanent, voi încerca să vin cu un roadmap și cu răspunsurile la problemele ridicate de dumneavoastră pentru programele operaționale care vor fi adoptate în 2015. sperăm să le adoptăm cât mai repede după revizuirea cadrului financiar multianual și salut intenția președinției letone de a aborda acest subiect cu maximă prioritate. rezumând, la ora actuală avem toate acordurile de parteneriat adoptate. din 310 programe prevăzute pentru perioada 2014-2020 au fost adoptate 14 de către predecesorul meu, domnul comisar hahn. de când am intrat în funcție am adoptat 25 de programe operaționale în 21 de zile și sper ca până la finalul anului să adoptăm 148-150 de programe operaționale. vă rog să mă înțelegeți că este aproape imposibil din punct de vedere fizic să adoptăm toate programele operaționale și de aceea am rugat statele membre să prioritizeze care sunt cele mai importante și, sigur, care sunt gata. facem tot ce putem. un ultim subiect: sunt la fel de îngrijorată ca și dumneavoastră în legătură cu facturile neplătite. tot ceea ce am spus a fost că pentru perioada 2014-2020 s-a transmis prefinanțarea, dar știu, ca și dumneavoastră, că suma facturilor neplătite va crește. este o problemă care trebuie rezolvată. am ridicat-o în cadrul colegiului, am stat de vorbă cu doamna comisar georgieva, pentru că nu este o problemă pe care comisarul pentru politica regională o poate rezolva singur. vă mulțumesc încă o dată, vă rog să nu ezitați să îmi ridicați orice problemă din regiunea dumneavoastră și vreau să vă asigur că mă consider avocatul regiunilor și al cetățenilor din uniunea europeană în colegiul comisarilor.
the signing of the partnership agreements for the 2014-2020 programming period marks the start of cohesion policy funding. but the objections raised by the commission create delays and delay the start of this process, so that only 10% of all the operational programmes submitted have been approved so far. in the case of romania, the commission made particular observations on the failure to learn from the experience of the previous period (2007 2013). the commission's objections relate to the lack of a sound argument for continuing the investments and their correlation with existing ones. we need to understand that the objectives of economic growth are closely linked to the coordination of sectoral policies and that a strategic approach aiming at a coherent distribution of investment leads to the strengthening of development capacities and contributes to increased competitiveness. i stress the importance of continuing to invest by financing growth poles. polycentric development models have proven their viability in terms of job creation and their contribution to the economic development of regions. we also need to ensure that the ultimate goals of these investments are linked to social inclusion programmes for disadvantaged groups. i consider that the main priority for romania is the adoption of the 2015 budget, as the national contribution to the beneficiaries is essential for the start of the investments until the community support is obtained.
written. commissioner corina creţu has provided important clarifications on this subject. i am convinced that, through her efforts, the programmes of cohesion policy will be fully restored in the shortest possible time. cohesion policy is the most effective mechanism for generating growth and economic development. european solidarity enables europe to develop as a whole and enables areas with development gaps to close more quickly. to do this, we need a transparent and effective cohesion policy to counter the messages of populist parties. to this end, a clear analysis of how the funds are used is needed. i welcome the decision to allocate, for example, more funds for the construction of motorways in romania. it is a priority area for romania and the prioritisation of the allocation of funds must be a key point of the european commission's effort. we need a wider dialogue with beneficiaries and partners to identify these opportunities. we need to prioritise projects better according to the effects and quality of the programmes. i support, in this respect, the increase in the budget allocated to the cohesion funds and the steps taken by commissioner corina crețu to make their performance more efficient.
on behalf of the s&d group. [...] a public policy is essential to ensure the efficiency and quality of a decision. in this respect, i welcome the initiative of the european commission and the european parliament to discuss this issue in detail and to look for new ways of achieving it. i believe that the main objective of an impact assessment is to enable the initiator to understand in detail the effects of the decision. quantitative indicators are needed, but also qualitative indicators. we need to understand that public policies affect citizens and that the people and different social actors involved need to know why we want to implement a particular policy and what the results will be. in the current political context, the european taxpayer needs to be informed in detail about the rationale of public policies. it must no longer be taken by surprise by measures taken at central level or in brussels, and we in the european institutions must understand that, beyond the states, we must be accountable to the citizens. i hope that through the measures proposed, we can make things no longer seem to be decided behind closed doors. the measures adopted must take better and more detailed account of the diversity of the european area and its social and economic characteristics. in this respect, commissioner, i am confident that you will be carrying out an impact assessment for citizens.
mr president, i want to sound the alarm about the fact-based suspicions about the existence of the political process and about the endangerment of press freedom in my country. after the revelations made on the television station belonging to the voiculescu family, proven by recordings, by which the brother of the president of romania took the amount of 250 000 euros to escape conviction of a known burglar, the process of the founder of the press trust, which has been on the court for six years, was re-opened and tried in five days. unreasonable delays of just one day during the judicial vacation, the non-admission of 124 objections raised by lawyers, the non-admission of neutral expertise as requested by the constitutional court, led to the conviction of 12 people, and the politician dan voiculescu, founder of the press trust that reported the news, received the maximum sentence. finally, extensive confiscation was applied to third parties who were not part of the process and could not defend themselves, thus economic strangulation measures were taken on the station that made the disclosure. so this is how freedom of the press is threatened and citizens' rights to defend themselves are violated.
madam president, the alarming figures on youth unemployment force us to ask whether or not we can have a secure future for our young people. as a young mep, i understand very well the problems faced by young people: lack of confidence in society, in institutions, but also in their own development capabilities. young people need us, the european parliament, the european commission and the rest of the institutions to develop, to dare and to take their lives into their own hands. there are 5.3 million young people in europe who are unemployed, and we have to act. as an s&d member, i say that we must increase the amount of the youth guarantee, invest more, more decisively and more intelligently. every euro we invest now in the potential of our young people is a priceless investment in the future. we need to open europe to large investments, to transnational projects, which bring the necessary resources to programmes for young people. that is why i say that young people must be encouraged to pursue their destiny in europe, to gain experience and to be an active part of european society.
madam president, the eu can only achieve its 75% employment target if it succeeds in strengthening the position of women in the labour market and in reducing the gender employment gap. although equality between men and women is a core value of the european union, several current studies show that there are still significant differences in the work experience of men and women and in the work-life balance. there are many reasons for this situation, which vary from country to country, and there can be no single european solution. one of the fundamental reasons is the lack of childcare solutions. most mothers do not work or work only part-time because child-care facilities are either lacking or too expensive. only a few member states have achieved the goal of providing care for children before school age. based on their experience, the solutions are: 1. to provide childcare facilities that better reflect the working hours of parents, 2. to provide childcare allowance, 3. to amend the laws on childcare leave, 4. to provide the possibility of flexible working hours. to achieve this, the commission and the council should address this issue more strongly in the european semester.
in writing. the challenges facing decision-makers in the field of social affairs and employment in the member states of the union have diversified and are continuing to diversify. as such, initial strategies for these areas, focused on reducing unemployment in the medium and long term, need to be adapted on the fly to take account of all new factors that arise, but also of the ageing of the population, in order to limit its negative effects. in addition, workers and companies in all eu countries are under pressure to adapt as quickly as possible to changes brought about by technological progress and the effects of globalisation. to do this, the eu needs to secure the economic resources needed to invest in education, health and other forms of human resource development, because without well-trained workers, europe cannot have the economic development trajectory it wants.
in writing. - the convention on choice of court agreements is designed to provide greater legal certainty and predictability for parties to international agreements and disputes by creating an optional system of judicial dispute settlement. the objective of the convention is to promote international trade and investment through enhanced judicial cooperation by introducing uniform rules of jurisdiction. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it seeks to strike a balance between the need to guarantee the parties that the courts of their choice will resolve the case and the need to allow states to pursue aspects of their public policies, such as respect for the guarantee of the exclusive jurisdiction of states. the report virtually complements the objectives underlying the eu rules on the extension of jurisdiction by creating a harmonised set of rules within the eu with regard to third states that will become contracting parties to the convention.
in writing. i voted against the request for an opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between canada and the european union on the transfer and processing of passenger name record data. i consider this agreement to be an essential instrument in the fight against terrorism and international crime. i appreciate the position of the epp group in this respect and i ask that attempts to circumvent the application of the legal framework for data transfer, without which concern for the security of citizens is only a slogan, be abandoned. the tense geopolitical context, in particular the presence of over 3 000 european fighters in terrorist movements in the middle east, requires much closer transatlantic cooperation. it would be desirable for other political groups, if they are so concerned about respecting the rights of european citizens, to pay similar attention to the abolition of visas imposed on citizens of eu member states by canada and the usa. citizens of romania and other new member states are still deprived of the fundamental right to free movement and are discriminated against compared to citizens of most member states.
mr president, i strongly supported this report because it was a strong and comprehensive agreement on the key topics that we need to address in the post-2015 global framework. i also voted for this report because the core issue of climate change has been recognised as one of the main underlying structural factors that lead to poverty and inequality in the world today. due to climate change the world will have to face the consequences of struggles over scarce resources – conflict, violence and hunger. rising sea levels endanger entire areas of the planet. if we do not act now, there will be an increase in natural disasters, which will continue to cause the death and suffering of hundreds of thousands of people, often those in developing countries who, let us be clear, are the least responsible for climate change. therefore i really welcome the fact that the framework will be universal and the burden will, hopefully, be shared. in order to achieve our post-2015 development goals, we must make sure that our development – not only that of the developing countries but of the european countries as well – will continue and will be long-lasting and sustainable.
in writing. - the global development framework implements in practice the principles on which the european union is founded, namely freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. eu member states are obliged to instill these principles in their citizens, thus making a significant contribution to the eradication of european problems. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this global development framework has the beneficial purpose of raising public awareness of the current problems facing the european area, assessing them and countering the problems in the years to come. key issues such as human rights violations, armed conflict and terrorism, climate change, food insecurity, migration, corruption, tax fraud and evasion, unemployment, and financial and economic crises still pose challenges to eu member states. that is why i believe that the common goal of the 28 states is to partner with their citizens, as well as with the european institutions, to jointly inspire respect for and the application of the eu's pillar principles.
in writing. - i also support the rapporteur's proposal to include in the post-2015 global agenda a clear message on women's participation in decision-making processes and the importance of ensuring equal access to jobs for women and men, as well as equal pay for work. i also believe that the eu needs to be more active in supporting programmes to improve girls' access to all levels of education and to remove gender-based barriers to learning, because without proper education, women cannot play a significant role in the new global development framework.
in writing. — it is crucial for the european union to adopt a strong, cohesive and unified policy for global development in the post-2015 period. the interdependence of progress in the main priority areas laid out in the report makes it vital that they be tackled in unison. article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes eradication of poverty as one of the primary objectives of the eu development policy. however, poverty and inequality cannot be combated without improving education. conversely, education cannot be efficiently improved without combating poverty and inequality. as such, policy coherence for development is imperative. i support this initiative and believe that the eu must provide the necessary legislative framework and mobilise the necessary financial resources to effectively address all the priorities laid out. besides providing the appropriate legislative and institutional framework, the new global framework needs to include the necessary tools for monitoring, assessing and enforcing these mechanisms.
in writing. - as pope francis stressed in his speech today, 21 november 2014, we must put the european citizens, the people and their basic needs at the centre of our attention. i believe that the first step to be taken is to combat inequalities of whatever nature. reducing inequalities between member states and, by implication, between the people of the union is the basis for sustainable development, which can lead to the eradication of poverty. in my view, poverty eradication can be achieved through three key conditions: the absence of armed conflict, the prevention of climate disasters and the improvement of productivity in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. the new global development framework, eu and the global development framework for the period after 2015, voted today, is the key to creating these necessary conditions. good governance for sustainable and balanced global development in the post-2015 period is directly linked to one of the main millennium development goals: halving the number of people suffering from hunger and poverty.
in writing. - while providing reasons for cautious optimism, the global poverty figures show us that one and a half billion people still live in absolute poverty, deprived of food, easy access to water, healthcare, education and security. i believe that joint action is needed to make the european union openly and unequivocally the world's exporter of know-how in all areas that have an impact on living standards - education, good governance, legislation, public health. absolute poverty also exists in the eu, even if it looks, perhaps, different from the poverty accentuated by civil wars and conflicts in other parts of the world. i believe that poverty within the borders of the european union and poverty in the rest of the world must be tackled in parallel. while national governments in the 28 eu countries, but especially in eastern europe, have a great deal of responsibility in promoting national policies and using the resources made available by the eu to eradicate poverty, the european union must act as one to accelerate poverty reduction in the rest of the world.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's proposal to set a secondary target of reducing child poverty in the europe 2020 mid-term evaluation, and to use objective 'poverty' indicators for the evaluations to measure poverty rates in the member states, precisely to help identify those at risk of being excluded.
in writing. — the europe 2020 strategy has set specific employment, education and social targets that the eu must strive to achieve. it is encouraging to see that progress has been significant on some areas, such as tertiary educational attainment, which currently stands at 36.9% with a 40% target, or early leavers from education, which currently stands at 12.0% with a 10% goal. it is, however, alarming that in other areas progress has been slow or non-existent. the major economic and social problems of the eu, unemployment and poverty, do not appear to react sufficiently to the european union's initiatives, and in some member states they are even increasing. the 68.4% employment rate in 2013 and the 122.6 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2013 put us very far from the targets of 75% and 96.4 million, respectively. i strongly believe that we need renewed efforts in these areas and that, without more cooperation between the eu and the member states and without sufficient spending, we may not reach the europe 2020 goals. if we do not act now, we may be faced with worsening situations instead of the improvements that each eu citizen is looking forward to.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the social and employment aspects of the eu 2020 strategy. it is essential that the elements of the european strategy are implemented in order to make its beneficial results visible in the shortest possible time. the european union needs to act quickly to tackle the social problems generated by the economic crisis. the resolution calls for social issues to be given priority on the european agenda.
in writing. - the europe 2020 strategy risks remaining a document full of good intentions and objectives, in the absence of clear and decisive action first at european level and then, equally and even more importantly, at the level of the 28 member states. less than six years away from the deadline for strategy 2020, the situation with regard to employment figures in europe is far from what the eu has set itself. at this rate, the gap between the eu's more developed countries and the poorest, such as romania, risks widening. i would draw particular attention to how member states have managed to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. the absence of prompt action, of concrete measures to stimulate the economy, to encourage investment and to reduce and combat unemployment, can have serious consequences, leading to a sharp increase in inequality within the union. i am confident that in the near future, member states will make every effort and take a much more ambitious and concrete approach in translating the objectives of the 2020 strategy into national targets.
the way in which the conciliation procedure has been conducted shows a rare lack of respect on the part of the council. the fact that member states have not been able to reach a clear agreement is worrying, but this is the result of the fact that the states were not represented at a decision-making level. the situation is all the more difficult as debts pile up at european level. the bills have to be paid. there are financial resources to pay these bills. the credibility of the european union depends on this and on its seriousness towards the beneficiaries. the council has to understand that these beneficiaries are from their own countries, regions, cities, are companies or ngos from their own countries. i don't understand, honestly, what the problem is. we as meps are responsible to the citizens we represent. the board seems to have forgotten that it is also responsible to them. we need political will in the council and in the member states, if not for the european parliament, if not for the citizens, at least for him and his political ambitions, which, without the budget, cannot be realised.
in writing. november 25th marks the international day for the elimination of violence against women. violence against women is one of the most insidious violations of human rights and exists on every continent, in every country and culture. they exist equally in economically developed countries and in developing countries. rape, rape as a weapon of war, forced marriage, early marriage, dowry killings and honour killings, trafficking in women and girls, female genital mutilation and sex-selective abortion are all manifestations of violence against women. now, we have alarming statistics worldwide. un estimates show that abuses against women are on the rise. the most common form of violence against them, globally, is physical violence. on average, at least one in three women is beaten, forced into sexual intercourse, or otherwise abused. it is necessary to move from words to deeds, by applying the measures that prove to be most effective in combating gender discrimination. states need to allocate more resources to making the fight against violence against women a priority, as promoting equal opportunities, non-violent behaviours and non-stigmatisation of victims is a necessity.
in writing. every day, violence is manifested physically or in more insidious ways, against women of all ages, all over the world. gender-based violence should not be tolerated in societies that want to be modern. we must ensure firm principles for the protection of women, children and all those who find it difficult to defend themselves. violence against women knows no borders, it extends across europe. it is a phenomenon which undermines the foundations of the european society we want to build. we cannot accept living in a european society where at least 45% of women have been subjected to some form of violence or discrimination in their lifetime. we cannot accept that more than a quarter of all european women are victims of gender-based violence and physical abuse without us doing something about it. we are investing in the principles of the istanbul convention on the elimination of violence against women. romania has rapidly acceded to the principles of the convention and will shortly ratify this document. i believe that together we can defeat all forms of violence against women. just together!
written. given the current context, where we are facing a considerable number of deaths and illnesses caused by working conditions at the workplace, it is clear that we have a duty to eu citizens and, of course, the desire to get better legislation in this area. the commission must come to parliament with concrete legislative proposals. all employees have the right to adequate and high protection at work, regardless of the member state, the size of the employer or the type of potential illness. businesses, in turn, need support to better and more correctly implement the relevant rules. we have a new commission and a new parliament that must commit to improving this legislation. we can no longer ignore the number of cancers linked to working conditions or the worrying number of musculoskeletal disorders in the member states. all of these have a direct impact on the health of the population, but also on the performance of employees.
mr president, the principle of equality and non-discrimination is enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of human rights. the employment equality directive has been transposed into law by all member states, yet people with disabilities still face social and economic discrimination in the eu. the unemployment rate for people with disabilities is twice that of the general population. this is because few jobs offer disadvantageous access or other reasonable accommodation for these people. we have to move on. reasonable accommodation should not only be a matter of positive discrimination but also a legal requirement. at the same time, we must combat the trap of a disability support culture and develop active labour market policies. but first, we need to be clear about where we're going and what our goals are. member states should collect statistics on disability and on equality and develop strategies based on good practice.
in writing. the stress tests and asset quality assessment of the major european banks are also significant for the economies of the non-euro area member states. the majority of banking assets in these member states are in banks whose majority shareholders are euro area banks. noting that these tests have not resulted in major problems for many banks in the euro area, we point out that economic sanctions against russia, as well as the situation in ukraine, may put banks with large exposures in the two countries in difficulty. we also expect proposals from the european commission to implement the policy decisions taken by the g20 leaders on 'banks too big to fail'.
mr president, i will support the council's proposals to align the powers conferred on the european central bank with the new supervisory function of the major banks in the european union. we can argue that this power, without the power to apply sanctions in case of violation of the rules, the decisions of the european central bank, as well as without the power to obtain the information necessary for the exercise of the supervisory function, would have undermined the credibility of the entire supervisory process, as well as the credibility of the european central bank. i would also like the european central bank and the council to take parliament's recommendations into account, as they bring more clarity both in terms of the transparency needed in those processes and in terms of the relationship between the european central bank and the central banks of the member states.
in writing. developing the infrastructure and boosting the economy of the newly-acquired countries must be one of the priorities of the european fund for strategic investments. closing the gap between the old and new member states is an imperative for deepening european integration and also represents a significant opportunity to boost growth and create new jobs. aligning and better connecting european transport infrastructure, for example, from romania and other new member states is not just a concrete proof of solidarity, but can be a profitable business for all involved. i therefore advocate channelling european investment to boost the less developed regions of the eu and creating transport and energy supply networks to strengthen the project of european integration. at the same time, i believe that effective and urgent measures are needed at union level to encourage private investment and to make the labour market more flexible, as well as to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. otherwise, it will be difficult to reach the target of eur 315 billion, which the european commission wants the strategic fund to attract as additional investments in the period 2015-2017.
in writing. – europe needs more prosperity, job creation, stability and sustainable growth. this can only be achieved through further investment. the investment plan is an ambitious and viable step in that direction aiming at adding around eur 330 billion to the eu gdp over the next three years and creating up to 1.3 million jobs in key strategic areas, such as energy, transport, education, research and innovation. the economic crisis has generated a crisis of confidence in europe, we need to attract private investments in order to boost the attainment of genuine, growth-generating european projects. we have the right tools at our disposal and on top of that, we have been presented with a fresh innovative investment plan that can streamline all the resources we have at our disposal. i ask all the member states to fully support and actively take part in this project in order to help restore a sustainable and stable european union.
in writing. climate change is affecting the world, not just europe. as an elected representative, i have a responsibility to present the views of the citizens i represent. and citizens seem to have been taken out of the programme you presented, commissioner. some citizens misperceive climate change, and others (most) say that nothing coherent is being done to improve the situation. why would you do that? because they see money being spent with minimal effects, they see emissions moving from one country to another by moving waste, old cars, old technologies from one country to another. they see how governments accept the cutting of forests. today i heard "should" many times, but i didn't hear "how"! that is why i believe that both the european commission and the council must present integrated projects within and between eu countries, but also between the eu and the rest of the world. i think we need better regulation, mandatory, not voluntary, because everything that's done wrong in one country affects the rest of the world. the council and the commission have an obligation to find solutions that deliver concrete results so that 'climate change' does not remain just a slogan.
i welcome the approach of the european institutions to their concern about climate change. i believe that if we act now, the costs of food production and environmental protection for the global, european and national economies can be reduced in the future. all the world's states must take appropriate measures to establish globally coordinated regional and macro-regional plans that are capable not only of responding to climate change, but also of preventing its effects, in order to protect the society in which we live and its citizens. every month, every year that passes without making firm decisions about the risks of climate change means that we don't think about our living conditions, but more than that, it means that we don't care about the planet that we leave to our children. the call to all actors (governments, international organisations, non-governmental organisations and sub-national actors) must be answered, and the answer can only be better international cooperation in action against climate change. we must not forget that food security and safety, especially for vulnerable people, is affected by the effects of climate change.
in writing. — the report on ecb statistical data collection allows the ecb to perform its new tasks for the prudential supervision of credit institutions (single supervisory mechanism). the report establishes that any exemption of reporting agents must be justified and made public. by doing so it increases the level of transparency. the report also amplifies the typology of collected data and adds the fundamental principle of proportionality in the definition and imposition of statistical reporting requirements: the ecb, when imposing sanctions, will have to distinguish between types of misconduct and whether infringement is intentional or negligent. our group has managed to include amendments that ensure greater transparency on exemption of reporting agents and protection of confidential data used by ecb when performing its new supervisory tasks. i congratulate the rapporteur roberto gualtieri not only for excellent work but for being able to achieve a large consensus in the committee on economic and monetary affairs as well. i support the adoption of the report as it strengthens the ecb’s power in the exercise of its supervisory tasks, with the ultimate goal of better controlling and regulating the european banking system.
in writing. — this regulation of the power of the ecb to impose sanctions is a step forward in the banking union process, a process that is one of our means to end the current economic crisis that is threatening the well-being of eu citizens and to prevent another crisis in the years to come. i welcome the positive aspects that our committee has introduced and especially the higher level of transparency in infringement procedures. i also strongly support the amendment presented by my colleague jonás fernández that would transfer ecb supervisory function sanction revenue from this institution to the single resolution fund (srf). this amendment avoids conflicts of interest in the ecb and increases srf credibility and resources that will permit faster recovery of the banking system. while i consider many of the changes introduced to be positive, i have abstained on the modification of (ec) regulation 2532/98 for the following reason: i, along with my political associates, disagree with the epp party’s amendment that would delay publication of the decision ‘until all legal means have been exhausted’. this would eliminate the timeframe for collection of sanctions and consequently contradicts the principle of transparency that is one of the main pillars of the s&d political view.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european central bank's power to impose sanctions because, on the way to the creation of a real banking union at the level of the euro area, but also with the participation of some of the member states which have not yet adopted the euro, the ecb's role is very important. we need to tighten the supervision of the european financial system, and that is the ecb's role. however, for regulations to prove effective, they must be accompanied by a monitoring and enforcement mechanism. we need more transparency, without which the effects of the financial crisis cannot be fully removed. the confidence of markets must be matched by the confidence of citizens and all those involved, and this is achieved through increased transparency of all new regulations and mechanisms that will ultimately constitute a truly functioning banking union in europe.
in writing. - the european union must continue to play a very active role in the fight against the global climate crisis, and the new commission must ensure that programmes to protect the environment and combat the effects of climate change can receive adequate funding. in all its actions, the eu must take into account that climate change policies need to be linked to the actions taken following the rio conference and in line with the millennium development goals and the post-2015 agenda.
mr. president, first of all, i would like to condemn the terrorist attack on the synagogue in jerusalem last week and express my deepest sympathy to the victims. secondly, i would like to recall that the issue of recognition of the palestinian state has recently been brought back on the agenda in some member states, either as a result of the adoption of resolutions to that effect in national parliaments (in the united kingdom, ireland, spain, soon france and possibly denmark) or as a government initiative (the case of sweden). as i said in the procedural debate on monday, the european parliament is divided on this issue. i think we have a fundamental difference of opinion. among supporters of immediate recognition of a palestinian state, the prevailing view is that this unilateral act is actually a tool to restart the engine of the gripped peace negotiations on the middle east conflict. proponents of this view argue that this would put palestine in a better negotiating position. but this view is, in my view, erroneous, because it empties the negotiation process of its content. what good is negotiating if one of the points we were supposed to agree on, namely the existence of a palestinian state, is already decided? i do not think that by such an immediate recognition we are serving the israeli-palestinian peace process at all, i think we are only dividing and antagonizing the two sides even more and at the same time showing that negotiations are useless. for the epp group, the only solution to this conflict is indeed the coexistence of two states, israel and palestine. however, recognition of palestine is only possible as a result of a negotiation process between the two parties within the framework of a comprehensive peace process.
mr president, madam vice-president/high representative, i would first like to thank you for your balanced, pragmatic and, yes, much-awaited speech to the european parliament. so far, our union has been absent from this encounter with history. meps are concerned about the increase in violence and acts of terrorism and condemn the recent loss of life in jerusalem and the acts of terrorism that have been the cause of it. the group of the party of european socialists and democrats takes note of the initiatives of national parliaments to adopt motions in favour of the recognition of the palestinian state and welcomes this approach. i appreciate that in the current context, so tense and complicated, peace negotiations and recognition must go hand in hand. recognition is both a challenge and an opportunity, a senior israeli leader recently told me, but it's also a step toward a solution. our goal must be the existence of two equal, sovereign states living in peace and respecting international rules. recognition alone is not enough. strengthening palestinian viability and statehood requires a common strategy of the international actors the european union, the united states and the states in the region that you mentioned but also financial and logistical support to make this happen in a predictable way. the european union must rapidly become a major player, which together with the united states and the states of the region, contributes to relaunching the peace process and to its completion within a reasonable time horizon. only then, through a lasting agreement and mutual recognition, including by the arab states, of the state of israel, can we guarantee the legitimate framework for the existence of the two states and peoples. and once again, i encourage you, madam vice president: a european strategy for the middle east.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 november 2014. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statement on the outcome of the g20 meeting. please allow mr gozi to speak and make the introductory statement (2014/2968 ((rsp)).
madam president, mr vice-president, the socialist and democratic group takes note of the progress, however modest, that has been communicated to us and welcomes the commitment of the g20 countries to increase their gross domestic product by at least 2% by 2018. but the big takeaway is this: if other countries have managed to overcome the effects of the crisis in the same time frame, and europe has not, then our recipe was bad, and the others had a better recipe for overcoming the crisis. we also note the desire to boost investment and create jobs, just as the investment plan was discussed in parliament today. on the other hand, we noted the agreement to prevent cross-border tax evasion through mutual exchange of information, as well as taxing profit where it occurs, but it says nothing significant about the fight against tax havens, and let's face it, this is the real problem, it's the colossus, it's the giant, equivalent to the gdp of the united states, that remains untouched, it's the hiding place where the untaxed money of the world is hidden. there was talk of climate change negotiations, but we europeans should blame ourselves for not having been to the hill between the united states and china (it was signed, of course, before in beijing). and one last note: very little about ebola. does the g20 not recognise that the member states and existing international entities have failed to prevent the crisis, have failed to coordinate so that its scale and effects do not reach the magnitude it has today and do not entail the economic, social and human costs that we will all experience? all of us europeans, but also the states of africa. here i expected the european union to take the lead and our voice to be respected.
a common digital market? the idea itself is about the opportunities offered by a european single market. protecting the european digital economic market, supporting private initiatives in this area, common rights for users and producers, tariff reductions, free access to the internet the benefits are many, but how we take advantage of them will determine the effects of the digital common market. europe has the capacity to be a digital leader. to this end, we need to engage in a coherent and open dialogue with all partners across europe. i come from a country, romania, that is a leader in it&c, but whose opinion is rarely heard. it's certainly not the only case. europe's diversity and regional specificities can strengthen the common market if we take them into account. europe does not need to copy silicon valley, because europe's small entrepreneurs and digital creators can do more. we just need to create the facilities for them to assert themselves and develop, whether they're in london or bucharest, paris or riga. and last but not least, we have to fight for what we have won, the reduction in roaming charges.
in writing. european steel must be seen in the context of the need to re-industrialize european economies, and those who accuse the supporters of european steel of nostalgia and retrogression would do well to study those analyses which demonstrate very clearly that, without industrial and technological support, society risks losing its capacity for innovation and technical progress. steel is not only of symbolic importance to those who think of the birth of the eu as a coal and steel community, but also of the most concrete importance as a support sector for most industrial branches, including high-tech. in looking for ways to revive the steel industry in europe, we are not only thinking of the 360 000 jobs, including 20 000 in romania, that this industry provides today, but we are thinking of the competitiveness of the european economy, which would suffer if europe forgot this industrial sector. environmental goals can be achieved without killing the steel industry. the ec must be careful to reduce the administrative burden associated with european programmes and, above all, we need the courage to create a common energy policy at european level that brings the price of energy back up to the level required by global competition.
i refrain from any comment.
mr president, as is the case with other minority communities in the country, such as christians, the baloch people have been targeted through the blasphemy laws in pakistan. mentally ill people have also been victims of these laws, which demonstrates how the pakistani state fails to protect and mistreats the vulnerable groups in its society. the blasphemy laws are in violation of the international covenant on civil and political rights, which pakistan needs to adhere to if it wants to benefit from the gsp with the eu. we should not overlook the fact that many secular parties in pakistan have been advocating amending or abolishing the blasphemy laws. this is something for the european external action service to pay attention to when dealing with pakistan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the case of šešelj, accused of war crimes (2014/2970 ((rsp)).
i too want to condemn in the strongest terms the recent actions of šešelj, who is being tried before the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia for serious crimes committed on the territory of croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. we are all outraged, as it turned out, by the rhetoric used by šešelj around the theme of "greater serbia", the incitement to hatred, as well as his heroic reception in serbia after his provisional release on humanitarian grounds. as the parliament's rapporteur for bosnia and herzegovina, i have been following the reactions in that country, the sense of revolt of the victims for whom šešelj's recent actions only reopen wounds that have not yet healed. in addition to this emotional burden, šešelj's actions risk jeopardising reconciliation efforts in the balkans and public confidence in the hague tribunal, which is an important instrument to achieve this reconciliation, risks being undermined. finally, i would like to encourage the serbian political class to unite in rejecting such bellicose and hate-mongering statements.
we have the 'catch the eye' procedure, we have several colleagues who have signed up, but because we still have one more subject to discuss and we would like to start voting at 12 noon, taking into account the timetable for departures from strasbourg, i ask for your permission and understanding to give the floor to one person who has not spoken and who will not speak. the others either took the floor at the "catch the eye" procedure, or spoke in the debates, or will speak in the debates. that is why i will give the floor to one person, mr khan, at this hearing, and then i will ask the commissioner to speak. mr. khan, you have the floor for a minute. mr khan left the chamber before this announcement, so i ask commissioner stylianides to take the floor.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – i join my colleagues in deploring the recent public statements and incitement to hate of vojislav šešelj which represent clear attempts to destabilise south-east europe and derail serbia from its european path. he represents a threat to the progress in regional cooperation and reconciliation in the balkans and we must not ignore his influence. the final order of the international criminal court for the former yugoslavia, published on 6 november, stipulates only that šešelj should refrain from witness and victim intimidation and return promptly to the hague when summoned. no restraints were put on šešelj in terms of political activity. šešelj told his supporters upon his return: ‘i won the battle against the hague and that was my goal.’ this statement and his actions after his release represent a provocative attitude which requires a firm and adequate political reaction and legal response. i echo this resolution’s call on the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia to undertake measures to re-examine the existence of requirements for provisional release under new circumstances. i urge the serbian authorities to respect their obligations under the framework on cooperation with the icty and their obligations as an eu candidate country.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on iraq: abduction of women and ill-treatment of women (2014/2971 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote is now. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. - president juncker has successfully passed the no-confidence test raised by the motion of censure against his cabinet, following allegations of tax concessions offered to certain corporations during his time as head of the luxembourg executive. i spoke against the motion of censure in the first place because, as a lawyer, i understand that any possible accusation must first be soundly argued and investigated as such by the competent bodies. secondly, i voted against because i am convinced of the need for a stable framework for the functioning of the community institutions. trust in the eu institutions is essential, any adverse effect could be economically disastrous, upsetting financial markets and increasing uncertainty among european citizens. current issues such as the conflict in ukraine, the threats of the islamic state, as well as domestic challenges in implementing the jobs, growth and investment package, need a stable climate at european level. the overwhelming vote against, with over 61%, confirms the high level of confidence that the juncker commission has in the european parliament. and last but not least, the rejection of the censure motion has once again demonstrated that parliament stands united in the face of the destructive intentions constantly promoted by the eurosceptic parties.
in writing. - the motion of censure was a gift for the juncker commission: it allowed it to be reconfirmed and re-legitimised politically. its rejection by an overwhelming vote by all the mainstream political parties was natural: it would have been irresponsible to plunge europe into a major crisis at the behest of populist parties. that said, my vote was one for reason more than for persons, and i hope clarity will be brought on all the matters that may cast a shadow over the mandate of this commission.
in writing. - we voted on the joint resolution on the delays in the start of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. i was also one of the initiators of the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe group in the ep on this subject. the commission's credibility is undermined by delays in the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020, coupled with arrears in the payment of invoices for the 2007-2013 programming period. it is of the utmost importance that the ec and the member states demonstrate accountability, especially as cohesion policy funds, together with co-financing by the member states, represent a significant proportion of public expenditure closely linked to economic growth in the eu. new programmes to strengthen investment, stimulate job creation and increase labour productivity need to be implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. - the convention on the rights of the child is ratified almost universally, but is far from being universally applied, with children's rights continuing to be violated in many parts of the world as a result of violence, abuse, exploitation, poverty, social exclusion and discrimination. humanitarian crises continue to have a devastating impact on children, with over 59 million children directly affected by crisis in 2014, particularly in conflict zones. today, it is estimated that there are 250,000 child soldiers in the world, of which 40 percent are girls. we must condemn the use of children for terrorist activities or military purposes and provide psychological support and assistance to all children who have been exposed to violent events or are victims of war. we need effective measures to protect children from the effects of armed conflict, to end the use of children in armed forces or armed groups and to end impunity for crimes against children. the promotion and protection of the rights of the child is a priority of eu human rights policy. it is fundamental to defend children involved in armed conflict not only because they are suffering in the present and because the future belongs to children, but also because they have inherent and inalienable rights.
in writing. a quarter of a century after the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child, millions of children worldwide continue to be abused, discriminated against, harassed, exploited through labour or sex, deprived of basic rights to education and health, subjected to slavery, violence, forced marriage or military recruitment at an early age. unfortunately, violations of children's rights are still reported, including in eu member states, with a clear correlation between education and family living standards and the traumas suffered by children. therefore, more efforts are needed to combat child poverty and ensure access to free primary school education for all children. we have the framework defined by the eu agenda for the rights of the child, so member states and the european institutions need to act more strongly to eradicate poverty and combat the vicious circle of disadvantage. increased attention is needed to counter violence against children, their harassment and exploitation both online and through illegal cross-border trafficking in human beings. i call on the european forces to monitor more closely the application of directives 2011/36/eu and 92/2011/eu by the member states in this regard.
in writing. — every year, over 7 million child deaths worldwide could be prevented, over 59 million children are victims of humanitarian crises, and over 1 billion children are victims of abuses such as neglect, abuse, sexual exploitation, kidnapping, human trafficking, and many other rights violations in the european union, in the eu’s partner states, as well as worldwide. twenty-five years ago, all the member states of the european union ratified the un convention on the rights of the child. the promotion of children’s rights is a fundamental objective of the european union’s policies. despite this, the progress made in the last 25 years, although remarkable, is insufficient. presently, in the eu alone, between 10 and 20 million children will have suffered some form of assault during their childhood. it is imperative that we take all the steps necessary to ensure that the most vulnerable, and at the same time the most important citizens of the eu, the children, receive adequate protection and support, and, as such, i fully support this initiative.
i voted in favour of this resolution because the digital single market is the implementation of the third and final wave of the technological revolution, the digital revolution. the interconnection of markets is a key condition for the functioning of the european union's economy and the ability to adapt to technological developments is an inevitable measure for maintaining global competitiveness. the digital economy needs to respond to market challenges by increasing technological capacity, with high performance in multiple fields and which can bring numerous job opportunities on the labour market. the digital single market faces, however, numerous challenges due to the stratification of european markets. the diversity of those markets currently creates barriers both between potential users in the member states and those in third countries. there are successful initiatives, such as the european procurement portal, which have created new opportunities for smes to grow across borders. the expansion of e-commerce activities has created new opportunities for european firms, but in some countries this process has been slow to take off due to low consumer confidence. however, the creation of a single certification system for businesses operating online would increase consumer confidence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution as the digital single market is one of the most innovative sectors of the economy, with a major role in boosting the eu's competitiveness, from e-commerce to telecommunications. i believe that there is a need for increased support for european initiatives in the field of new technologies, given their potential in the eu's post-crisis recovery. we are facing some major challenges at the moment, which the eu needs to address through a coordinated strategy to develop a digital single market. i mention in particular the problem of market fragmentation, the lack of interoperability in the european union and the protection of personal data and privacy. last but not least, we are affected by differences in the access of european citizens to the internet, especially in some rural regions. excessive market concentration and abuse of dominant positions by certain operators are also a concern. concrete action is needed to ensure a level playing field and i am referring in particular to the separation of search engines from other commercial services, as there is a risk that search engines market secondary services on the basis of the information they obtain.
in writing. — the fragmentation of the digital market in the european union has been a significant barrier to the expansion of the itc private sector. the need to be compliant with the legislations of multiple member states is an expensive bureaucratic burden for established enterprises, while for many smes and entrepreneurs it is simply unfeasible. this severely hampers not only the growth of the digital sector in the eu, but also of adjacent service sectors. according to the estimates, the implementation of a european digital single market would create millions of jobs and contribute to a 4% increase of the gdp of the eu by 2020. this would be a welcome boost in a period of high unemployment and stagnant economy throughout the eu. i support this initiative as i believe it benefits both sides of the argument. as stated in this resolution, on one hand, businesses will have easier access to a wider market, implicitly leading to job creation and economic growth, while on the other, consumers will benefit from cheaper, better and more varied digital services.
in writing. — i voted for the digital single market resolution because the implementation and completion of a digital single market would offer great economic benefits and would have a positive impact on the daily life of eu consumers and citizens. the digital single market will also create new jobs especially for highly skilled workers and will make an important contribution to the creation of quality and sustainable employment. i voted for the enforcement of eu competition rules in the digital single market, which will boost competitiveness and the growth of the market. this resolution is a step further for development of e-commerce, consumer access and choice of goods and services in the long term. and last but not least, the digital single market is one of the areas of progress which would help the eu to recover from the economic crisis because through the digital market the possible economic gain is up to eur 260 billion per year.
in writing. — whether economic or social, the cost of not accelerating the completion of our digital single market is simply too high. however, one must proceed in a fashion that strikes the perfect balance between consumer protection and enhancing the competitiveness of our sluggish continental economy. in this context, i voted in favour of a resolution that emphasises the urgency of doing away with barriers that prevent reaping the benefits of a truly connected europe: legal uncertainties and an uneven playing field for businesses, slow internet access, restricted internet traffic or roaming charges. it is a sensible initiative that flags our deficiencies and points digital europe in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the problem of child malnutrition is one of the main factors that prevents developing countries from getting out of poverty and giving children a chance at life. improving child nutrition is a key factor in the development of a healthy population, a factor that automatically leads to economic growth and social progress in these countries. a number of studies have shown that malnutrition is caused by a lack of essential elements such as calcium, iron, vitamin a, and also by problems that occur during breastfeeding. these deficiencies can cause stunted growth or even death, due to illness of the mother or the child. so developing countries cannot get out of poverty and they cannot get ahead economically unless their populations are nutritionally secure. and for that to happen, it's going to take the european union and the developed countries to step in and help us treat and combat child malnutrition.
in writing. - it is well known that child malnutrition is linked to food insecurity and household poverty, inadequate care and feeding, unhealthy living conditions and inadequate health services. almost one billion people continue to suffer from hunger and, even worse, at least 225 million children under five years of age worldwide suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition and stunted growth as a result of chronic maternal and child malnutrition, with an estimated 2.6 million of these dying each year in developing countries. i voted for ensuring that universal access to nutritionally adequate food and the fight against child malnutrition remain the most important targets within the overall objective of eradicating hunger in the post-2015 agenda, including the eradication of all forms of malnutrition by 2030. so, 25 years after the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child, it is disappointing to see that some signatory states have not yet been able to create an enabling environment to ensure that children have access to adequate nutrition.
in writing. as one billion of our fellow citizens suffer from hunger and as this scourge affects hundreds of millions of children, victims of chronic malnutrition and infant mortality, i support the resolution calling for the eu to provide more support through its development aid programmes to fight hunger in developing countries. malnutrition is the leading cause of infant mortality, responsible for over one third of all illnesses in children under five years of age. that is why i believe that sustained efforts must be made to combat food trafficking, improve purchasing power, help small farmers and distribute food more efficiently. unfortunately, some progress made since the 1996 world food summit was cancelled out by the food crises of 2008 and 2011. the cycle of rural-to-urban migration and extreme poverty is also perpetuated in many poor regions of the world. in these circumstances, it is clear that the reduction in funds for agriculture under the 10th european development fund was a mistake and i ask the council to reconsider this harmful amputation.
in writing. — at least 225 million of the world’s children under the age of five are suffering from acute and chronic undernutrition or from stunted growth as a result of chronic child and maternal undernutrition. there is estimated data of 2.6 million of such children dying every year in developing countries. also one out of three people in developing countries are suffering from chronic deficiency of essential vitamins and minerals, which drastically increases their susceptibility to birth defects, infection and compromised development. the fight against child undernutrition and the provision of universal access to adequate nutritious food should remain one of the most important targets of the post-2015 agenda. it is thus critical to make every possible effort to ensure that this goal is properly achieved. i welcome the commission’s commitment to investing eur 3.5 billion between 2014 and 2020 in improving nutrition in some of the world’s poorest countries. i call on the commission to scale up its commitments as regards nutrition-specific interventions in order to meet its objective of reducing by 7 million the number of stunted children under the age of five by 2025.
in writing. the european union must keep environmental protection at the top of its agenda and i believe it will be beneficial for it to join the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). it will also allow for enhanced cooperation with other non-eu countries to protect endangered species. we must not forget for a moment the great diversity of plants, animals and habitats that europe has, in a territory that is quite small compared to other continents. according to experts, half of europe's wetlands have been drained, and nearly three quarters of the dunes in france, italy, and spain have disappeared. the most valuable habitats for wild fauna and flora are protected by law, but many are in poor condition and need to be restored. on the other hand, almost half of europe's mammals and a third of its reptiles, fish and birds are threatened with extinction. this is mainly because their habitats are being reduced as urban areas develop and some of the land is allocated to infrastructure projects such as roads. as such, we need to protect all of these species, both for current and future generations.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. i can just reiterate that with this proposal the objectives will be delivered and the target of a 6% greenhouse gas reduction by 2020 will be met. the objective of the fuel quality directive is to reduce the carbon content of fuel used for road transport. the aim of the fuel quality directive is not to discourage the use of any specific type of fuel but to ensure the appropriate accounting of greenhouse gas emissions. so i have taken due note of the range of opinions expressed and the concerns referring to the link with the trade agreement, the differentiation between fuel stocks and the extension of the fuel quality directive beyond 2020, and i will duly convey these concerns to my fellow commissioner arias
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on assessment of good repute of transport operators (2014/2978 (rsp)).
commissioner, we all know that transport is one of the elements that gives meaning and effectiveness to the economic dimension of the european project. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, by rail and by road. this is the rule that all carriers must follow. the commission must therefore develop transport legislation that is capable of regulating unfair practices, respecting competition principles, combating illegal cabotage and providing economic and social support to transport workers. i call for the rights of all employees to be respected and for eu sanctions to be applied quickly and effectively to discourage any cases where carriers pay their employees less than the law requires, employers use fictitious forms of employment, carriers do not pay employees social rights and benefits and employees' working hours are not respected. if we are talking about safety on europe's public roads, we must bear in mind that the main cause of accidents is the physical exhaustion of drivers, who are forced to live in the cab of a truck for weeks on end and are forced by their employers to drive for 9-10 hours a day without interruption. given that international transport and transnational employment are widespread economic practices, we cannot afford to ignore the social nature of regulation (ec) no 1071/2009. therefore, for the rights of these people and for the safety of all road users across europe, we need prudent legislation to impose uniform rules for all those working in the transport sector.
mr president, accidents caused by drivers of motor vehicles for the transport of passengers and goods, even when they are infrequent, have serious consequences, with loss of life and severe trauma to the survivors. road transport of passengers and goods has increased greatly in the european union both as a result of the enlargement of the european union and as a result of the increased free movement of goods and people in the single market. that is why i believe we need rules, clear eu-wide rules on situations where there are serious breaches of eu rules that can lead to a road transport operator losing its good repute. what we want, however, is that these legislative efforts do not introduce new barriers to the development of road passenger and freight transport, do not introduce new additional costs and do not allow for discrimination against road operators on the basis of their country of residence. as you have seen in this debate, the commission's proposals do not seem to meet these requirements entirely.
mr president, romanian citizens have been the target of attacks by extremists in several european countries in recent months. unfortunately, the lack of response to these messages is generating abusive and restrictive government policies on the rights of all european citizens. the recent proposals of prime minister david cameron mean, in effect, restricting the right to free movement of labour in britain. in this context, i cannot help but notice that the segregationist discourse is practiced today against romanian citizens. this rhetoric produces real effects, which may even affect romania's accession to the schengen area. mr. cameron, and romanians contribute to the prosperity of your country and you are not allowed to restrict their rights. we will do everything within our power in the european parliament to protect their rights. i respect the statements of mr juncker, who stressed that the free movement of european workers is a fundamental principle of the european union, but i would like concrete proposals for sanctions for any kind of anti-european behaviour. we cannot allow some europeans to be treated as second-class citizens and i propose to hold a debate in the european parliament to discuss the rights and obligations of all european citizens.
mr president, the new commission translates into a new approach to the problems of roma communities across the eu. with the new commission in office starting on 1 november, expectations of the credit allocated to the new european cabinet increased. among many other priorities, ‘changing the situation of the roma’ – or ‘the european roma minority’ as i like to call it – should be on the commissioners’ agenda and also on the member statesʼ political agenda. as a newly elected member of this parliament, but mostly as a romanian roma, i am drawing the commissionʼs attention to the following: structured, institutional dialogue between member states, the commission, parliament and roma organisations has to become an implicit, structured and valued working approach. the cabinets of the vice-president and the relevant commissioners need to have capable and experienced roma experts to supply the necessary hands-on experience that the previous commission did not have at the level which is needed. together with the major european roma organisations, the commission must put in place an efficient monitoring mechanism that can show the progress that is going to be made by 2020, and that includes what we know has not been done by 2014.
thank you, mr. president in romania, the process of returning property confiscated by the communist regime has not only been halted but reversed. recently, a final decision was made to revoke the restitution of a school building that had previously been returned to the reformed church, effectively re-nationalizing it. the case is also sensitive because the court could have been held liable for its own interpretation of the law. romania committed to full restitution when it joined the eu, and the relevant laws were born, but the interpretation of the courts can reverse the whole process. the decision is also outrageous because the process has found guilty officials who were acting in their duty, convicted people who were acting in good faith in the law, in not one, but thousands of restitution requests. the decision raises serious doubts in my mind as to whether romania fulfils the rule of law criterion, which was one of the conditions for eu accession. thank you, sir.
mr. president, the national union for the progress of romania is a center-left construction whose main objective is to introduce modern progressive government in romania and ensure the political, economic and social stability of the country. seriousness, fairness and keeping one's word have become a real calling card for unpr, a fact acknowledged by all political leaders as well as by romanian citizens. the unpr is based on two main pillars: the national interest and social dialogue. romanian society has been profoundly transformed in the last 25 years, but romania's younger generations are not well represented politically, and the assisted generations are in a permanent situation of social insecurity. they need a strong, pragmatic and progressive political voice to represent them - that of the unpr. unpr puts the national interest at the centre of political life. only the promotion of the national interest, both in bilateral relations and within european, euro-atlantic and international organisations, can and must be the most important common denominator of the parties and the only lasting bond of romanian society. romanians need unity, not only around common interests, but above all around the aspirations that have marked our history, our evolution and that define us as a people. but above all, the country needs leaders capable of consensus, cooperation, construction and progress. as it has always supported to the end the governments of which it was a part, unpr is honouring its commitments and word given and, in line with the expectations of its own supporters, expresses its support for the continuation of the current government of romania. among the unpr's priority objectives for the next period are: the introduction of the solidarity tax on the wealthy, the accelerated increase in the absorption of european funds and the increase of romania's role and influence within the european union and nato.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr fox, i accept your criticism and say that something is not good, but i do not understand the contradiction you are in: you contradict the need for the currency unit, at the same time you are part of the european union. what would be the solution for you? because criticizing is easy. you don't come up with solutions. since we started the session, your group has only done this. you're in the european union, we need a single currency for good governance.
mr president, we have a system of economic governance in the european union that works. so far, the problem is not the construction of the system, but, on the contrary, the problems that have arisen in the implementation of this governance system. first, national parliaments in some member states are not involved in this process with regard to the finalisation of draft national reform programmes, convergence or stability programmes which are submitted by governments to the european commission. second, while some member states agree with the recommendations made on the necessary economic and budgetary policy changes, they do not take the necessary steps to implement these recommendations. finally, there are public statements on the insufficient flexibility contained in the two packages, six and two. i believe that it is not the system of economic governance in the european union that is the real problem, but the loss of competitiveness in some member states and the lack of firm decision on the policies needed to stimulate productivity and competitiveness growth through investment, the efficient allocation of resources and the continuous advancement of technologies. (the speaker agreed to answer a question after the blue card had been raised, in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. when you're stuck in public debt, when you're losing competitiveness, there's only one solution: restructure. for that you need solidarity, in the sense that the other partners agree to give you time to take the necessary reforms and do the right thing in that country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report repealing council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 on the assistance to be given to the commission and cooperation between member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs. following regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, the scientific tasks entrusted to the scientific committee for food have been taken over by the scientific committee and the groups of the european food safety authority (efsa). efsa has also become the body competent to promote scientific cooperation with member states and competent national bodies operating in the areas falling within the competence of the authority. the report thus provides a clear regulatory framework in line with existing rules, which is intended to further strengthen the european framework for food safety. i believe that food safety in the eu and in the world is a key factor for the development of a healthy population, a factor which automatically determines economic growth and the harmonious development of society.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote on the assistance to be given to the commission and the cooperation between member states in the scientific examination of food-related issues and agree to the creation of a regulatory framework that is as simple, clear and stable as possible for businesses, workers and citizens.
in writing. food safety and the creation of the best conditions for public health care are a constant concern of the eu. this concern is all the more timely as the public debate generated by the eu negotiations for new free trade agreements has brought many of the concerns of european citizens into the public spotlight. the eu must ensure the highest standards of food safety, and this must be achieved through scientific processes. that is why i voted for the report on the scientific examination of food problems. the report repeals council directive 93/5/eec, which has become obsolete, and thus updates european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. the fact that the european union can join cites as a member after having held observer status demonstrates that the eu is fully capable of pursuing its own objectives in line with its environmental policy. the convention on international trade in wild fauna and flora (cites), to which 178 countries, including all eu member states, are parties, is an important international instrument aimed at protecting endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of over 35 000 species. given that the european union is an economic and political partner, its accession to the convention is nothing but a normal step, which will result in much better protection and conservation of european fauna and flora.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) and believe that the european union's accession to cites will reflect and optimise current practices for the protection of endangered species of flora and fauna, which cover some 35 000 species.
in writing. ‒ i support the european union's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), as this accession is a global confirmation of the eu's environmental concerns. initially limited to the level of states and open from 2013 to regional integration organisations, accession will not affect the individual rights and obligations of eu member states, previous signatories of cites. european environmental policy already aims to protect species whose survival may be threatened by international trade and stipulates a licensing system for import-export-re-export operations, as well as rules on documents of origin for species covered by the convention. the eu has also adopted a number of legal instruments on this subject which are binding on the member states. in these circumstances, i believe that, by joining cites and taking over part of its trust fund, the eu must commit itself more firmly at international level to enhancing cooperation to protect the almost 35 000 species listed in the annexes to the convention and to strictly comply with the rules governing trade in this area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). this accession represents an opportunity for the eu to become fully involved in the implementation of the convention.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ep recommendation on the eu's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). i welcome the fact that, thanks to the amendment of the convention, the eu, as an organisation of sovereign states, has also been able to accede to it. international trade must not become a tool for reckless exploitation of the environment, which accelerates the harmful phenomenon of the disappearance of new and new species. this concern is shared by many eu citizens and is reflected in today's ep decision. cites, which entered into force in 1975, is an important international instrument essential for the protection of endangered species of flora and fauna. under cites, all import, export and re-export operations and introductions of species of marine origin covered by the convention must be authorised through a licensing system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on the global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between the european community, its member states and the kingdom of morocco. the agreement strengthens the cooperation of the member states with the kingdom of morocco in the field of satellite navigation and implements a number of elements of the european satellite radio-navigation programmes. the fact that this agreement will develop scientific research and industrial production without having financial implications for the eu budget will strengthen joint activities in these sectors for the benefit of citizens and the european community.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this research and innovation cooperation agreement because it opens the way to new partnerships with countries like morocco that share common values with the european ones. in this respect, i consider any future collaboration to be a plus in morocco's democratic journey and i have myself initiated a number of projects to support this partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision renewing the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine. the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine was signed in copenhagen on 4 july 2002. the agreement provided that it would end for an initial period on 31 december 2002 and be renewed by agreement of the parties for additional periods of five years. by decision 2011/182/eu of 9 march 2011, the council approved the renewal of the agreement for a further period of five years, until 8 november 2014. the renewal of the agreement for five years is in the interest of both parties in order to maintain continuity in the scientific and technological relations between ukraine and the european union. the european union must now, more than ever, support ukraine's efforts to align with the european union and its desire to be part of the european union in the future. the science and technology agreement will further add value to this industry in europe and, together with ukraine, will make europe much stronger on the world market.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation on the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine. the agreement not only perpetuates a joint act that expired on 7 november 2014, but also strengthens bilateral cooperation at a critical moment for ukraine. the renewal of the agreement must, in my view, be followed by more effective cooperation in practice to facilitate access to specialist information, to deepen research and innovation and to better exploit the results of scientific activities at international level. research in eastern europe is suffering from chronic underfunding and an exodus of specialists, which is starting to have a boomerang effect on the education system and the competitiveness of these societies. i therefore believe that the eu-ukraine partnership must, especially in the new geopolitical context and ukraine's orientation towards the system of democratic values, aim at improving local conditions for the exploitation of the expertise of its own specialists.
in writing. i voted for the ep recommendation to renew the agreement on cooperation in science and technology with ukraine, which expired on 7 november this year. this agreement shall be based on the principle of mutual advantage and access to each other's scientific and technological programmes and activities, ensuring the protection of intellectual property, the equitable distribution of intellectual property rights and the effective exploitation of results. the renewal of this agreement will allow for the increase of scientific knowledge, which will lead to the creation of market access opportunities. in the particularly difficult conditions facing our eastern neighbours, the ep must responsibly use all avenues to strengthen eu-ukraine cooperation, including by strengthening the legal framework for this bilateral cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area. the agreement on the european economic area was signed on 2 may 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. today, more than 20 years after its entry into force, the agreement is having a positive effect on the whole of the european union and in particular on the new members. the proposal on croatia's participation in the european economic area is a natural step in croatia's eu accession process and creates the legal instrument through which the country fully benefits from the effects of eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area and i consider that this comes as a consequence of its accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ croatian accession to the eea acknowledges the far-reaching political, economic and institutional reforms, the efforts to comply with eu directives and the substantial progress that croatia achieved before the crisis. it will have many positive impacts for the country: it will strengthen contacts and cooperation between croatia and the partners of the eea; it will enhance the competitiveness of the countryʼs economy. croatia will be able to contribute to and influence the formation of relevant eea policies and legislation at an early stage as part of a formal decision-shaping process. among other things, croatia will become the 16th beneficiary country of the existing eea grants scheme. this will help croatia in reducing the negative effects of the global financial crisis such as negative economic growth, unemployment rising by over 14% and youth unemployment by up to 40%. croatiaʼs accession increases the eu area of political stability, expands the euʼs internal market, extends eu standards and creates new opportunities for eu industries, entrepreneurs and customers. i welcome this new membership since i strongly believe that the european union as a whole will benefit from it.
in writing. ‒ croatia's participation in the european economic area (eea) as a consequence of eu accession officially begins at a time when the four pillars on which the eea agreement is based, namely the four fundamental freedoms: the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - in the 28 eu states plus the 3 member states of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) are being called into question. signed in 1992 and entered into force in 1994, the eea agreement has given impetus to the creation of the european single market and has helped to integrate most of our continent. the questioning of the free movement of persons in the context of the economic crisis and now of the permanence of stagnation is a worrying symptom of the potential hostility to the european project. the temptation to adopt protectionist measures may also affect values and norms that transcend intra-european borders. i therefore believe that it is necessary to defend the respect of equal rights for all citizens of the member states, including the right to free movement on the labour market in all countries of the european union. it is a fundamental right, and the new european commission is called upon to ensure that it is respected, all the more so as the anti-european discourse intensifies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for a council decision on the signing, on behalf of the eu, of the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area - eea. croatia's participation in the eea is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. in this respect, today's ep decision completes the eu's enlargement with the new member state croatia. the eea agreement, which entered into force on 1 january 1994, brings together the eu member states and three member states of the european free trade association iceland, liechtenstein and norway in a single market. the signatories to this agreement commit to incorporate into their national laws eu legislation relating to the four freedoms - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report authorising the french republic to apply exemptions or reductions in the tax on dock dues for certain locally produced products in the french outermost regions: guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, mayotte and réunion. the tax on dock dues is an indirect tax on the supply and export of goods to the french outermost regions. in principle, it applies equally to locally produced and non-locally produced products. the proposal provides for the extension of the period of application of decision 2004/162/ec for a further six months, from 31 december 2014 to 30 june 2015, and the measure will give france the time necessary to transpose the provisions of the new council decision into its national law.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote on the taxation of dock dues in the french outermost regions; i believe that economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions should be stimulated.
mr president, i am speaking here as coordinator of the european people's party group on foreign affairs and i am very pleased, mr president of the commission, to find in your work programme for 2015 among the priorities the revision of the european neighbourhood policy, which is also a priority for us. we are already working on this. my colleague, éduard kukan, is handling the subject and we have received a very positive signal from commissioner hahn on this. i am convinced that we will work very well together, especially since in recent years we have also been somewhat surprised by the changes in the south and east. we were ill-prepared and sometimes felt, here in the european parliament, that we were not in a very good position to take certain decisions. we are thus aware that the reform of the european neighbourhood policy today cannot be a mere cosmetic reform. we must try to meet the great challenges of our time and, indeed, find a balance between east and south. i would also like to say a word about the agreement with the united states, because these negotiations are of course important for economic growth and jobs, but also in political terms. this partnership is crucial for us and europe will be a very strong global player if it succeeds in concluding these negotiations with its american partners.
madam president, the european union has a budget for 2015. this is without any doubt good news for europe. we can all agree that without parliament, a budgetary crisis and therefore a blockade of many eu programmes would have occurred. this would have had a negative impact on smes, researchers and many erasmus students throughout europe. thanks to the clear and strong position of parliament we managed to reverse most of the council’s proposed cuts and almost stabilised the current payments backlog. we have at best stabilised the problem of payments, but we have by no means solved it. we are still expecting almost eur 25 billion in unpaid bills at the end of this year. this is a huge amount and we need a plan to reduce it. that is why i welcome the decision to draw up a plan to decrease this backlog. in this regard, i welcome vice-president georgieva’s readiness to cooperate with us in dealing with this problem. however, some outstanding issues remain. one of the most important ones concerns the special instruments. as i am the rapporteur on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for advance payments for 2015, i can confirm that the council still believes that payment appropriations for this instrument have to be within the margins of the budget. this is another way in which the council is trying to further cut the multiannual financial framework (mff). we, the parliament, have made it clear that commitment and payment appropriations for special instruments are over and above the margins. as we know, the eu is not allowed to have any deficits or accumulated debt. council must obey the treaties and ensure that the eu pays its bills.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their efforts. the european union will finally have a european budget for 2015 and we are happy about that, but i would not like to think that all the problems have been solved. achieving this consensus leaves many things still unresolved: the issue of unrealised payments and debts from previous budgets, the lack of agreement in the conciliation process and the way the council has chosen to treat the european parliament, the inability to set clear directions for job creation or to support innovation, social or development policies in a coherent and consistent way, or the lack of transparency on how funds or sums to be allocated by member states are actually spent. in this context, i express my disappointment as a new and young member of the european parliament and i hope that this year's discussions will be a lesson for what will happen in the next four years, because, whether you want it or not - and this is true for both the council and the commission - we in the european parliament work in this chamber to defend the rights of the citizens who elected us, because the interest of the citizen is the same as the national interest; because regardless of all these discussions, it is important that when we talk about the european budget we speak openly and transparently.
mr. president, i apologize for the delay, i was at a meeting about the new investment plan which i believe, too, may be jeopardized by the european budget, which is becoming less and less credible. it is good that we have a budget, but we must remember that the same scenario was used: the budget for next year was negotiated at the same time as the amending budgets for this year, even though a lot of papers were signed saying that this would not be done. the commission has come up with one proposal, the parliament with another, and finally we have reached what the council has proposed, and the situation is that there is a deficit of over 20 billion this year and probably much more next year, a practical deficit, which is illegal. so early next year, the european council has to take a decision on the finalisation of the european budget and the updating of payments.
in writing.– this report aims at reacting to the commission’s proposal on the adjustment of the member states’ (ms) national contributions to the financing of the eu budget. as it has emerged, a number of ms have underpaid their contributions to the union’s budget over a number of years, while others have overpaid theirs. against this background the commission adopted a proposal to amend the existing rules in order to give ms the possibility, under specific circumstances, of making available the amounts of own resources after the current deadline of 1 december. although the commission’s proposal aims at giving ms more flexibility, it also risks making the current own-resources system even more complex and less transparent. furthermore, the commission’s proposal could create a precedent which would affect the level and timing of payments to benefactors. since we are already facing a growing shortage of payments, this scheme could influence the implementation of the 2014-2020 mff and the credibility of the union’s budget. a real remedy to overcoming the deficiencies of the current system is an extensive reform of the eu’s own-resources system that takes the european parliament proposals into consideration as well as the work carried out by the high-level group on own resources.
mr president, the civil war in syria is one of the greatest tragedies of this decade and no end seems to be in sight. we have witnessed large-scale war and violence, tens of thousands of people killed, huge destruction inflicted on this country, millions of people displaced or taking refuge in the neighbouring country. at the same time, the emergency services involved in nourishing and protecting syrian refugees are under-financed. there is a vital food shortage for 1.7 million refugees in turkey, lebanon, jordan, iraq and egypt, people included in the eu food aid programme. this emergency is a tremendous challenge for the host countries. we are not providing these countries which have generously opened their borders to the refugees with adequate financial and burden-sharing solidarity. we should not hesitate to increase our allocation of funds in response to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in syria and in neighbouring countries. public mobilisation, including private donors, individuals and governments, has helped the world food programme maintain its response to this particular case, but it cannot be the permanent solution. it remains the responsibility of the eu member states to respect their commitments, and our citizens support us in doing so. refuges affected by the conflict were forced to leave their homeland and live in camps. they are suffering and dying from hunger and cold. they are extremely dependent on international aid. the survival of these people is essential and must be our priority.
rapporteur.– madam president, for the eu this file is a gesture that is symbolic in purely economic terms, but is of great political significance at a critically historic juncture for moldova and, indeed, for our entire european neighbourhood. for moldova, it is a breath of fresh air in a sector of vital importance for the moldovan economy: fruit growing. its importance, however, goes beyond apples and plums, as we shall see in a moment. it also serves as a practical demonstration of solidarity in the face of hardship. the eu and moldova signed their association agreement on 27 june 2014. the moldovan parliament quickly ratified it on 2 july 2014. as if by coincidence, shortly thereafter an import ban was imposed by russia on agricultural products from moldova. on 7 august 2014, russia also imposed a ban on food imports from the eu itself in the context of the ukrainian crisis, which, of course, is linked to the wider question of our eastern neighbourhood. the root of the problem lies in the fact that russia sees itself, wrongly of course, as the object of some sort of geopolitical plot by the western world. it is a conflict generated by a dramatic clash of world views. it is the 19th century fighting the 21st century. blood, invasion from within, propaganda, lies and apples became the ingredients of a very strange new form of warfare. seeking some relief, the moldovan authorities have turned to the eu requesting urgent support to reduce the economic impact of the russian ban, in particular for the most important products of moldovan food growers: apples, plums and table grapes. the commission decided to respond positively. the council agreed and i hope we, the parliament, will also give our blessing this week. the ban is hurting moldova’s economy in a rather dramatic way. agriculture accounts for around 40% of moldova’s gdp. its horticultural sector alone employs a quarter of a million people – that is 10% of the active moldovan population. obviously they mostly live in rural areas and they cultivate small and medium family plots. a few words on the legal context of this proposal: the autonomous trade preferences (atps) are an instrument whereby a trading power, such as ourselves, may offer concessions to a country in order to support its economy without asking for trade concessions in exchange. atps for moldova were originally introduced by the eu in 2008 by the very regulation that we are amending this week. the commission now proposes to amend the atp regulation by introducing three new duty-free quotas for fresh apples (40 000 tonnes), tables grapes and plums (10 000 tonnes each). the quotas will apply until the end of 2015, when the whole regime will expire. the quotas for the three products concerned are extremely limited in volume compared to the potentially competing eu production. for apples, for instance, which is the most sensitive product, it is only 0.4% of our production, and they address very different market segments than most eu production. more specifically, in light of the cultural and geographical proximity with romania, it is very likely that most of the additional volumes of the three products will be absorbed easily by the romanian market. for apples, for example, romania this year has a fall of 22% in production, and the quota under discussion tonight covers only 8% only of romanian production. so there is still a gap there to be filled by others. a few words now in romanian.sper ca autoritățile moldovene să reușească să transforme aceste cote într-o poveste de succes, care să ajute cu adevărat fermierii moldoveni. și aș vrea să fac un apel și la operatorii economici din românia, să folosească această oportunitate cu deschidere față de colegii din republica moldova. merele, prunele și perele din moldova sunt foarte gustoase și vă asigur că ele vor fi apreciate de consumatorii români dacă le vor găsi pe piață.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, the ppe group fully supports the adoption of the proposal on additional trade preferences for the republic of moldova. i think that it is important that we show once again our commitment to supporting a european course for our neighbouring state. this report, which was thoroughly presented by our rapporteur, introduces new measures to tackle the unfair commercial practices of the russian federation. last year, i was the rapporteur for moldova when the european union proposed the full liberalisation of imports of moldovan wine to the community market after a similar ban by russia on its imports. today’s decision to supplement trade preferences complements last year’s measure of opening the eu markets to moldovan products. i fully welcome parliament’s approval of the draft report without amendments. i hope that we will vote on the file tomorrow and that it will be published by the end of the year, so that the moldovan partners can benefit from these free extra quotas as soon as possible. to conclude, i hope that moldova will keep up its efforts in view of these future european perspectives, and that the fta will deliver its positive effects for the benefit of the economic development of moldova and our rapprochement.
madam president, i'm shocked to hear a colleague speak like this. i would like to welcome the report we are going to adopt, because it introduces three new tariff quotas exempt from customs duties for fresh apples, for table grapes, for plums and we are thus showing, in a very concrete way, how the union can support a country that has been hit dramatically by russian sanctions. i would remind you that before russia imposed sanctions on agricultural products from the union, it did so against moldova, and this for a country that lives largely on such activities related to fruit and vegetables. hearing a speech like the one we just heard is simply shocking, there is a lack of humanity in the end in this kind of stigmatization of the poor moldovans, who are already being hit by the russians. if we hit them with this intolerant attitude, i think we show very little empathy for what european citizenship means today. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the elections in moldova have confirmed the desire of the citizens of that country to take the european path, against the colossal pressure exerted by russia, including through the financing of political parties, which is unacceptable, including in the european union.
member of the commission.– madam president, i think the debate tonight has shown there to be very strong solidarity, which is perhaps appropriate a week before christmas. this is a very small gesture for us, and as everybody has said it does not affect our market at all as it is 0.1% of our trade with the world. but it is an important proposal for moldova economically, of course, which is why we are doing it, and it is also very important on a political basis. it shows that solidarity is not only a word for us, but also something that we are ready to practise towards our eastern partner in need. approving this proposal tomorrow – and i hope there will be a strong majority – will show that we support those countries choosing the european model of development and european values. it will indicate to moldova, as many of you have said, that we stand behind our words and decisions, and behind friends in difficult times. we will of course continue to help moldova in many other ways as well, and we will closely monitor the effect of this decision that hopefully will be taken tomorrow. thank you all for a good debate. and thank you again to the rapporteur and to the committee for its hard and quick work on this.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and her services for the hard and quick work on this file. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have contributed tonight. i have noticed a lot of common sense in the overwhelming majority of reactions and i believe i have found the proper metaphor to describe this regulation that we will be adopting tomorrow: leverage – and the leverage effect is very fashionable these days. with this resolution we might have an even better factor than 1 to 15. with a very, very small effort on the eu economy side, we will have a very significant effort on the moldovan side. now some very brief reactions to the other comments. mr scholz, i fully agree with you that there should be policies to make sure the moldovan gdp structure includes more diversification and higher added value. i hope the association agreement will be an important instrument in providing for this – and i am personally convinced that it will – including by means of fdi, which will be able to reap the benefits of the huge single market. on enlargement, this is about plums and apples, it is not about enlargement. there are many, many veto players in the enlargement game, and there is no issue whatsoever of surreptitiously pulling moldova into the eu by adopting a regulation on apples. that said, it is a free world and moldovans are free to want to join europe, and political actors and civil society actors in europe are free to support their choice, so we will have a political and democratic process. madame la présidente, monsieur schaffhauser, on blâme la victime pour le viol. on évoque ici la négation de l'identité moldave, mais c'est vraiment du délire. personne ne nie l'identité moldave. personne ne force la moldavie à faire un choix, quel qu'il soit. c'est un pays démocratique, qui fait ses choix démocratiquement.
in writing. the agreement to introduce autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova has led to increased trade and increased exports have had positive effects on the moldovan economy. the european union has become moldova's main trading partner. more than half of the exports and almost as much of the imports are with the eu, confirming that moldova has fulfilled its commitments to the eu and made progress on economic reforms. i would like to stress that the agricultural sector represents 40% of the moldovan economy and provides jobs for about 250 thousand employees. the free access of moldovan agricultural products to european markets contributes to the strengthening of a sector that is essential for the moldovan economy. i am convinced that the presence of agricultural products on eu markets will mean on the one hand an increase in the performance of the agricultural sector and, by implication, an adaptation to eu rules, thus making it easier for moldova to fulfil the pre-accession conditions. on the other hand, moldovan citizens confirmed their pro-european orientation in the parliamentary elections in november. the economic component of the eu association agreement is therefore a natural step towards fulfilling european aspirations.
in writing. the granting of trade preferences to the republic of moldova is a sign of eu solidarity in the face of the russian embargo on moldovan products. opening the european market to fruit imports without additional taxation will support an important sector of the economy of this state increasingly anchored in a deep and comprehensive trading area with the eu. the trade facility constitutes, after the conclusion of the association agreement, concrete support to the republic of moldova in the geopolitical context redefined by russia's aggression against ukraine and destabilising actions, including economic, in moldova. this decision also constitutes a new recognition of the substantial efforts made by the chisinau authorities to reform the state and to intensify cooperation with the european union. the republic of moldova is the eastern partnership member that has made the most progress in recent years, and therefore i believe that the association agreement should be followed by further steps to increase trade and investment, to modernise the economy and to improve living standards in the republic of moldova. this requires further difficult reforms and it is the union's duty not only to monitor this process but also to effectively support the implementation of reforms through financial assistance and the necessary expertise.
in writing.– i want to congratulate mr moisa for this report. moldova must continue its european trajectory. not long ago, this parliament voted in favour of the association agreement with moldova. these measures improve moldova’s access to the european market. we know that the proposal is a temporary one but we also know that moldova is greatly dependent on agriculture. in the last legislative elections, we have seen that moldova chose the european path by voting in favour of the pro-european parties. we have to show solidarity with a country that at the moment is not at all in an easy situation.
in writing. offering special conditions to products from the republic of moldova and increasing the volume of imports from this country on the basis of special customs tariffs is a positive thing to support the european path of the republic of moldova. the main argument of the anti-european forces in the republic of moldova is that european integration will hurt the economy as it will no longer be able to access the markets in the east. the measure is designed to counter these arguments by giving moldovan products wider and preferential access to the european market. economic and trade indicators indicate that the implementation of the measures proposed in this report will bring significant progress to the economy of the republic of moldova and the opportunity offered by the european market will solve the problems generated by the restrictions imposed by the russian federation on certain products from the republic of moldova. the european union is a common political space but it is also a strongly developed economic space and the economic integration of the republic of moldova into the eu implies increased opportunities for moldovan companies and producers as well as the chance for a faster development of the republic of moldova.
in writing. the republic of moldova signed the association agreement with the european union in june 2014. in the elections for the parliament, the citizens of the republic of moldova had to choose between parties that want the country to continue on its european path and parties that want to return to the east. the moldovan citizens have chosen the european path. unfortunately, russia maintains and intensifies restrictions on imports of agri-food products from the republic of moldova. that is why i welcome the european commission's initiative to propose an increase in the import quotas for apples, grapes and plums, free of customs duties. i believe that other european initiatives are needed to support and encourage the citizens of the republic of moldova to overcome the difficulties created for political reasons in the international trade of this country.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 december 2014. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. — the republic of moldova is experiencing severe difficulties due to politically motivated import bans against its agricultural products imposed by the russian federation, a traditional market, in response to the intensification of relations with the eu. such restrictions threaten both economic recovery and the reform process undertaken hitherto with commitment, determination and ambition. the agricultural sector represents around 40% of the economy. the horticultural sector provides employment to some 250 000, that is 10% of the active population. acknowledging outstanding reform progress as well as the need for an ambitious agenda for political association and economic integration, the eu and moldova signed an association agreement including a dcfta. the country has advanced steadily on regulatory approximation leading to convergence with the union’s laws and standards. the system of controls and certification has improved firmly. the reform of customs legislation was executed successfully and translated into administrative practice. the proposed preferences provide immediate social and economic relief and represent a support measure to the reform process and efforts to implement european standards while improving trade relations, creating new trade opportunities and ultimately benefiting consumers and producers with very limited financial impact on the eu and virtually no additional pressure on its existing market.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the proposal for a regulation on the introduction of autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova and introducing three new tariff quotas exempt from customs duties for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums and i believe that this support measure is in favour of moldovan producers who grow these products on small and medium-sized family farms and who were most affected during the country's last economic crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the commission's proposal to introduce autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova for the three product categories: apples, grapes and plums. we must take into account the importance of this measure for a state that is in a difficult period of transition from communism to democracy. the share of the agricultural sector in gdp in the republic of moldova is around 36% and the employment rate of the active population in this sector is very high, with an impact on labour migration. for the member states, this measure has a small impact: total imports from the republic of moldova to the european union in 2013 represented 0,1% of total imports into the eu, and imports of fresh apples and plums and fresh table grapes represented less than 0,01% of total eu imports of these products. as we know, the republic of moldova is the most advanced on the road to the european family and has made the most efforts. we must also show by concrete measures the support we declare at political level for the european option of chisinau after the legislative elections on 30 november and help the republic of moldova to cope with the pressure from the russian federation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal to adopt trade preferences for the republic of moldova to bring it even closer to the eu. the eu thus expressed once again its commitment to deepening political and economic relations beyond the recent association agreement and the creation of the free trade area. by adopting this decision, the republic of moldova will expand its access to the eu market, in particular through approximation with relevant eu legislation and standards. at the same time, it is a clear signal to the russian federation that it will have to review its unfair trade practices and embargo on imports of agricultural and food products from the republic of moldova. in concrete terms, at legislative level, the commission proposed to amend the autonomous trade preferences regulation by introducing three new tariff quotas with exemption from customs duties for apples, grapes and plums. the preferences will provide immediate benefits and support to the moldovan economy with a very limited impact on the eu market.
in writing. — the importance of the regulation adopted today goes far beyond some quantities of apples, grapes and plums, serving as a demonstration of solidarity in the face of hardship: it is a breath of fresh air for a sector of vital importance for the moldovan economy, affected by an irrational russian ban, just like the eu itself. the romanian market is amply capable of absorbing the new quantities allowed on the eu market, which are symbolic in relation to eu production, so no distortion whatsoever of the eu market is to be expected.
in writing. as rapporteur for opinion, appointed within the agri committee, i am fully satisfied with the result of today's vote - 551 votes in favour, 67 against and 23 abstentions - for the approval of the proposal for a regulation on autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. the approval of new tariff quotas for apples, plums and grapes for moldova is not only a concrete measure by the european union in support of moldovan farmers in the context of the russian embargo, a politically motivated embargo with very negative effects on moldovan products, but also a firm political support in the context of the eu-republic of moldova partnership. i believe and hope that this support measure will compensate for a good part of the losses of moldovan agricultural producers.
in writing. the republic of moldova has recently demonstrated its commitment to european values as well as to democratic principles. the signing of the association agreement by the republic of moldova represents an opportunity both for the states and societies of the european union and for the republic of moldova itself. however, the signing of the agreement entailed costs, mainly economic, for the small eastern european state. the repercussions of these can be severe. the imposition of genuine economic sanctions by russia against the republic of moldova has affected moldovan society and economy. in this context, i support the proposal for full temporary liberalisation of imports from the republic of moldova for a number of agricultural products, especially as long as the european market can absorb these products. the stated objective of russian policies is to change the course of the foreign policy of the republic of moldova. the european union cannot allow the process of integration and peaceful development of external relations at its borders to be influenced by the policy of force practised in relation to the republic of moldova. i support the adoption of these important provisions both for the eu's foreign policy and for the european future of the republic of moldova.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the reserve for 2014 of eur 4 026,7 million to respond to the budgetary impact of unforeseen circumstances. this fund is to be mobilised in order to supplement the payment appropriations in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, above the payment ceiling. it is commendable that this money will be used to cover youth programmes such as 'horizon 2020', 'erasmus' and 'cosme' as well as to cover the expenses of the 'youth employment initiative'. the european parliament is once again demonstrating that young people are one of its priorities, and the european parliament is funding programmes to encourage them to stay in europe to study and work here.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report presenting the draft amending budget for 2014 as i agreed to the reallocation of payment appropriations from the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of the european fisheries fund, as well as to the increase of payment appropriations by eur 711,4 million. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european parliament's contribution to the costs of the european parliament's commitments under the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft amending budget which aims to reduce the budgetary appropriations for the european data protection supervisor. i agree with the revision of the traditional own resources, i.e. customs duties and sugar levies, and the budgetisation of the relevant corrections and their financing as a result of the change in the allocation of these own resources between member states and the contributions from the eu budget. i am convinced that the overall impact in terms of revenue will represent a substantial reduction in the own resources conditions and will constitute important aid for all eu member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft which provides for budgetary adjustments in relation to the recalculation of the tax base and the calculation of financial resources in the budget of the european union. this correction illustrates the difficulties faced by the european union in correctly and consistently recording the gross national income of each member state and calculating the rate of contributions to the common european budget.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the general budget of the european union in the form of commitment and payment appropriations for advance payments and i consider this measure to be a genuine solidarity measure, which comes to the support of the european citizens affected.
in writing. i welcome the vote to mobilise the solidarity fund to support european citizens affected by the floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria. these severe floods have caused massive destruction of public and private infrastructure, damaged hundreds of thousands of households, and hit economic sectors such as mining, agriculture and transport infrastructure the hardest.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft amending budget to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to provide support to serbia, croatia and bulgaria, which were hit by floods this year. these floods are considered to be the worst in history, causing massive destruction of public and private infrastructure, as well as damage to hundreds of thousands of households, affecting thousands of people who needed medical care or who needed to be placed in temporary housing zones. solidarity is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and with this decision the european parliament is once again demonstrating that it respects the fundamental principles of the eu and puts the welfare of the citizen before any other interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the union's own resources system and the adjustment of the national contributions of the member states. the proposal aims to amend regulation (ec, euratom) no 1150/2000 in order to give member states the possibility to make available the amount resulting from these adjustments (vat and gni balances) at any time between the first working day of december and the first working day of september of the following year, when the individual threshold or the overall threshold is exceeded. i support this measure because member states will be able to benefit from the flexibility of payments, which would reduce the financial burden, especially in the end-of-year period.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the amount of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations to be included in the 2015 budget for the payment of advances to meet the most urgent needs. the union is thus showing its solidarity with the people of regions affected by natural disasters. this year, several eu and non-eu countries were severely affected by floods caused by torrential rains as well as other natural disasters such as earthquakes. hundreds of thousands of european citizens have suffered colossal material and financial damage. citizens lost in a fraction of a second homes, crops, and even pets. solidarity is one of the fundamental principles of the european union and with this decision, the european parliament once again demonstrates that it respects the fundamental principles of the eu and puts the welfare of the citizen above any other interest.
in writing. the eu solidarity fund is a non-reimbursable financial instrument for emergency situations, which also represents an expression of solidarity on the part of the union by providing concrete support to affected citizens. the purpose of this fund is to cover part of the public expenditure incurred by the beneficiary state to overcome the effects of major natural disasters. romania has benefited from support through this fund, with the commission allocating eur 2 475 689 to help it to repair the damage caused by the drought and forest and vegetation fires that affected our country in 2012. the objective of this decision is to enter in the budget for 2015 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations, which is necessary to pay the advances in the event of a natural disaster in the following financial year in a timely and efficient manner. i voted in favour of this very important measure to make financial assistance available to member states in a more rapid manner.
in writing. i voted for this project because the report institutionalises mechanisms to support regions affected by disasters. however, the report shows some shortcomings in terms of clarity and the means used to support disaster-affected regions and does not bring major additions to the already existing legal basis.
in writing. i voted for the new european budget for the financial year 2015 as it is the result of a political consensus between the council, the european parliament and the commission. the negotiations were somewhat difficult, but i believe that this budget will achieve important goals in terms of job creation and development. the 2015 budget also includes the pilot project i initiated to increase access to health services in rural areas.
in writing. i have chosen to vote against the motion for a resolution initiated by the european parliament because i consider the european commission's proposal reasonable. the procedure did not allow the members to table amendments. that is why parliament exercised its veto and called for an improved proposal. i believe that with this proposal the european commission has already imposed a number of difficult conditions which should be met by the carriers and they will have to adapt fairly quickly. it takes time, though. changing the rules is never easy. i fear that if this classification of infringements is made even stricter by the european commission, the transport industry will be harmed and the rules will not be fully complied with. also, the reason given in the resolution, the lack of illegal cabotage, is not correct. i do not think that it has any place in this delegated act.
in writing. the european union must firmly support democracy and security in the israeli-palestinian area in the first place, and provide support for a lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. i think that the european parliament should first of all express its concern about the ways in which a palestinian state can be created. the creation of a palestinian state is much more important and difficult to achieve than simply recognizing palestine. when the peace process is completed, a solution for the political recognition of palestine can be found.
in writing. given that the european steel sector has played a significant role in the process of european integration and is a strong european industrial base, i believe it is important to consider the possibility of reopening temporarily closed mills through certain training programmes for the workers who would be employed in them, thus ensuring the future development and competitiveness of the european steel sector.
in writing. one of the foundations of the eu is the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community. the eu must not lose sight of this foundation, but must continue to invest in the steel industry, which is essential for economic growth. this sector provides 350 000 direct jobs and several million related jobs. i believe that investment at eu level in high-tech industries and by implication in the steel industry becomes imperative to avoid their offshoring outside the eu. i call on the commission to ensure the competitiveness of european industry on the world market and to ensure real fair competition. this is possible through the effective use of the european globalisation adjustment fund and the european social fund. the commission should also use the european regional development fund to make the necessary investments in research and innovation to revitalise this sector, in particular in innovative production processes and energy efficiency. last but not least, i ask the commission to closely monitor the situation of romanian combines in order to avoid further closures or sales to competitors in third countries.
in writing. — in the face of lowering global demand and an increasingly uneven global playing field, the steel industry, once the backbone of the european economy, is currently going through tough times. heavy yearly reductions in production capacities, massive layoffs all over the continent and the looming threat of europe switching from exporter to a net importer of steel, all form one depressing reality. given this state of affairs, my vote goes in favour of putting some action behind today’s political rhetoric calling for a european industrial renaissance. while not sacrificing environmental standards or the voice of our steel workers in the process, european steel needs a clear support plan to get back on the track of growth. our union’s long-term industrial competitiveness is clearly at stake here.
in writing. the economic recovery in europe depends to a large extent on a strong manufacturing industry, in which the steel industry must play a key role. we urge the commission to speed up the preparation of the roadmap for industrial policy announced for the first part of 2015 to revitalise european industry on the world market with a view to ensuring a level playing field, while guaranteeing high social and environmental standards in the eu. the commission should also allocate part of its investment package to long-term viable infrastructure projects and to innovation in industrial macro-projects, including energy efficiency and low carbon projects, which could also significantly boost eu steel demand. i stress that investment in research and innovation is crucial for the recovery and relaunch of the european economy in general and the steel industry in particular. it is essential to support the steel sector, including through the strategic development of new key steel-using sectors, thus creating incentives for efficient production processes, strengthening the internal market and stimulating skills development.
in writing. in the first nine months of 2014, according to the international organisation for migration, at least 3 072 people lost their lives in the mediterranean. it is well known that traffickers in human beings and members of illegal immigration networks profit from illegal immigration. these networks pose a major risk to the lives of migrants and a problem for the eu. member states have a duty to respect their international obligations in the field of rescue at sea. i believe that a global approach to migration is essential, as is a constructive assessment of the overall strategy of cooperation with third countries, including sub-saharan africa, north africa and the middle east, on humanitarian, financial and political assistance.
mr. president, the issue of the cia's use of torture has been a polarizing issue in public opinion in the united states for years. the release of the senate report last week confirmed the existing rift within the american political class. democrats and republicans are deeply divided on a number of issues, namely, whether this report accurately reflects what happened, whether the procedure followed was itself correct, and even whether this report should have been published given its potential security implications. all of these issues are being questioned and disputed in the united states. we don't have a unified view that comes from the united states. personally, i would like to stress that i feel very close to the position expressed by republican senator john mccain, who supported the release of the report and criticized the cia's practices that would, in his opinion, cause harm to american security interests. i thought it was very wise when senator mccain said, "we make mistakes, we make mistakes, we fix those mistakes, and we commit to never doing them again". no one can claim today that the practices highlighted in the cia report continue. it's actually an episode that belongs to the past. president obama ended the interrogation program in 2009. i would say that the desire to clarify things was very clear in the united states, and i think that's the main lesson that we have to take away. it's a healthy thing for a political regime to seriously examine its own drift.
mr president, the attacks of 11 september 2001 in the united states, as well as those in madrid, london and boston, have shown us that no nation is secure, and that terrorism can strike anywhere, anytime and with unimaginable power, with the lives of millions of people constantly at risk. these things have caused nations around the world - not just the united states - to join forces in a common cause, to abandon defensiveness and to react. today's situation, where the islamic state is able to recruit more and more followers, perhaps also because of a polarization of society, shows us that peace, security and the safety of the citizen are values that are always in danger. innocent people fall victim to savage acts of terrorism every day, and recent tragedies show us that these threats take a domestic form, in other words they come from the holders of european passports. the detention centres have emerged as a consequence of the fact that terrorism does not take into account borders and, at the same time, of the need to identify its causes and, above all, to find answers to what needs to be done to eliminate or at least reduce this phenomenon. that's why i think that over-politicizing this phenomenon is not in anyone's interest. however, and i stress 'however', we can never agree to inhuman means of obtaining information. torture, inhuman and degrading treatment must be rejected under all circumstances. to do otherwise would only turn the victims into stones, and their guilt would be no less. the common goals of all nations must be to uphold international human rights standards, and at the same time we must be concerned about the safety of our citizens, wherever they may be.
it is certainly commendable that such a report could be produced in the united states, stating that cia agents extracted information from suspects by methods incompatible with human rights. but i think we should end our polite words here, because i find the cia's practice of this kind of thing outrageous, even though the president of the united states says that this is a thing of the past. while it is not impossible that other countries may use similar methods, it is a matter of concern that the united states may do so, putting human rights protection in the last place when its interests dictate. although the administration of justice in a state of law is sometimes slow and circumstantial, i think it is the respect for this that distinguishes democracies based on freedom and the rule of law from other parts of the world. if we don't hold ourselves to our own self-made standards in some cases, we have learned nothing from the lessons of the 20th century.
mr. minister, if you want to intervene in the form of a yellow card, it's not possible. representatives of the commission and of the council may not be questioned in this form. if you want to talk about something else, you have the floor.
motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure shall be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the february i part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – the topic of cia secret prisons and practices during the ʽwar on terrorʼ keeps regularly surfacing. most of the times, that re-surfacing is due to journalistic investigation based on ʽundisclosedʼ sources which, because of their anonymity, cannot be challenged. the difference this time is that the report is authored by the us senate, until recently dominated by the democrats. consequently, the report has come under heavy attack from an array of personalities and institutions – many directly linked to the political and security sectors – for political bias and incorrectness. romania was a ʽtargetʼ from the very beginning, although the site of the so-called secret detention facility kept circling around – the mk air base, bucharest, dobrogea, etc. even if the us senate report does not mention any country, journalistic articles were capable of ʽidentifyingʼ it, again based exclusively on ʽjournalistic sourcesʼ linked to the washington post newspaper! it is clear that, under the circumstances, the report is being used as an opportunity to name countries which otherwise are not named. if torture and illegal practices against anybody, including notorious criminals who have the blood of thousands on their hands, are unacceptable, than pure political speculation is equally unacceptable.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on freedom of expression in turkey: the recent arrests of journalists and media executives and the systematic pressure against the media. the following table is added:
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the high representative/vice-president. on sunday, raids by the turkish police led to the arrest of a number of journalists and media figures in turkey. we've all been following this case very closely. the high representative/vice-president mogherini and commissioner hahn issued a statement on sunday afternoon, emphasising unequivocally that the raids and arrests were incompatible with the freedom of the press, a fundamental principle of democracy. the declaration also expressed the hope that the principle of the presumption of innocence would be respected and recalled the inviolable right to an independent and transparent investigation in the event of alleged wrongdoing, in full respect of the rights of defence of those concerned. obviously, illegal acts must be punished, but always within the framework of the rule of law and in accordance with the principle of proportionality. the council also discussed the situation yesterday and adopted clear and firm conclusions on the expectations of the european union and the obligations of turkey as a candidate country. the council of europe's commissioner for human rights, nils muižnieks, expressed deep concern at the events of sunday, calling them a serious setback for media freedom in that country. this parliament has also made its voice heard and many of you, together with president schulz, have expressed your concerns about the latest developments and this debate must enable us to reinforce the message we want to send to turkey. we all agree that turkey, as a candidate country, must aspire to the highest level of democratic guarantees in terms of both standards and practices. this includes full respect for freedom of expression, which is essential for the realisation and exercise of a range of other human rights, including freedom of association and assembly and freedom of thought, religion or belief. democracy cannot exist without these freedoms. in its 2014 progress report, the commission welcomed the positive developments in turkey, such as the democratisation package, the action plan against human rights violations, the judgments of the turkish constitutional court and the effective commitment to a solution to the kurdish question. at the same time, the report expressed concern about several developments which also threaten, in particular, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of expression. the problems with freedom of press and expression in turkey are not new: we have seen the crackdown on journalists and social media following the gezi park protests. in the recent political dialogue and in bilateral meetings, the european union reiterated that the accession process remains the linchpin of eu-turkey relations, and at the same time also expressed its concern about the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression, stressing that the main driver of this process is the developments on the ground in turkey in the first place, as regards the rule of law and fundamental rights. in their recent visit to turkey together with commissioner stylianides, high representative/vice-president mogherini and commissioner hahn underlined that the rule of law and fundamental freedoms are key areas where turkey needs to make progress. all turkish interlocutors stressed the importance of relations between the european union and turkey and welcomed the joint visit. they all expressed their commitment to the process of accession to the european union and the strong political will to take it forward and to advance political reforms. high representative mogherini and commissioners hahn and stylianides reiterated that this strong commitment to the european union expressed by the turkish counterparts during the visit must be translated into action. the member states of the european union have repeatedly reiterated that turkey is an essential partner and agree that it is important to send a clear message to turkey on the need to advance reforms aimed at establishing appropriate checks and balances to fully protect freedom, including freedom of thought, expression and the press. the member states also recalled that progress in the accession negotiations depends on respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. the european union stands ready to support turkey's efforts in this area. we believe that the accession process remains the best framework for advancing and supporting reforms in turkey. the european union's position on this point is very clear and has been conveyed to the turkish partners in the clearest and most consistent manner. the european union has the right and the duty to follow such issues closely in an applicant country and we now expect turkey to make a constructive commitment to these concerns. in my view, this means that we must continue in good faith on the road to accession, we must make the most of the instruments we have and turkey needs to work with us. i hope that the commitment to the european union expressed by the turkish government will bear the fruit it hopes for. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me assure you once again that this matter is a priority for the european union and that we will continue to follow it closely. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and i look forward to hearing your views in the debate.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would like to say at the outset that i speak as a friend of turkey. i am not, in other words, one of those politicians who build a career by opposing this candidate country to the union. just as a friend i have to say that i am concerned, i am very concerned about the recent wave of arrests and the general attitude towards the media in turkey. at this point, it seems to me that the intention of turkish politicians to join the union and build a democratic society is no longer clear at all, and i ask them directly: 'where to in this regard?' the remaining, i believe, main supporters of accession, turkish businessmen, are also extremely concerned and this must of course raise a question mark in the first place with the turkish authorities. as far as i am concerned, i still support the establishment of benchmarks for the opening of negotiating chapters 23 and 24. it is a position which was already voted on in the last resolution on the progress report on turkey. i think that in this way we could contribute to the debate that is taking place in turkey on these subjects. in conclusion, the european union is not sending a clear message if it will continue to negotiate with a country with so many problems, such as turkey, by keeping out of the candidacy talks a country like moldova, which is a stable country and which is politically far more advanced now than turkey.
madam president, i will begin by reiterating the obvious: freedom of the press is a fundamental value of the european union and of any democratic state. sunday arrests are unacceptable and unacceptable, because they call into question the respect of this freedom in turkey. our relationship with turkey, the candidate country, must be honest, open and direct. we, the socialists and democrats, remain committed to the enlargement of the european union to include turkey. that is why it is fundamental for the success of this process to talk in parallel about progress and obstacles. this is not the first time we have faced the issue of press freedom in turkey; that is why we are deeply concerned that the situation of the press is getting worse, that president erdogan has chosen a direction that is dangerous for turkey and that is why i call on him to take responsibility as a leader and ensure the democratic stability of turkey.
madam president, i am always surprised to hear moscow's view expressed here - as it was yesterday - with great rhetorical enthusiasm. you are wrong, mr chauprade, particularly about the relations between the countries you have mentioned and nato: moldova does not want to join nato. you're making up a story, which is that your friends, who - if i understood correctly from reading the press - also gave money to your party. - you're not? the national front as we have all seen in the press is funded by moscow. from this point of view, we are really shocked. i know you will say that borrowing is impossible in europe, and we know your answers. but mr chauprade, do you realize that in georgia, as in moldova, as in kiev and ukraine, people have to choose between a society of freedom and free trade on the one hand and soviet authority on the other? apparently you like this kind of soviet authority, whereby one decides for others. the georgians, the moldavians and the ukrainians want to decide for themselves, not for moscow to decide for them, and they have the right to consider this european perspective. if you want to wage war on the poor georgians, moldovans and ukrainians, excuse me, this is not the place to do it. we are really in a spirit of solidarity here and that is why the epp group will be voting enthusiastically for the association agreement, as it did for moldova and ukraine. (the president agreed to answer two 'blue card' questions) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i will not answer mr chauprade because i told him from the outset to send his questions to putin or his friends at that private bank. i would like to reply to what our british colleague has just said: we are of course concerned that such operations are also being carried out with the national front in moldova, with a moldovan party which campaigned with russian money from a private bank. this is unacceptable! our chamber, the european parliament, whether here in strasbourg or in brussels, is not the place where moscow has to speak.
mr president, sometimes we get the feeling here that we are listening to ‘govorit moskva’ (‘voice of moscow’), but that is another story. domnule președinte, semnarea acordului de asociere cu georgia este nu un premiu, ci o recunoaștere a meritelor și progreselor făcute de această țară prietenă și a puternicului sprijin proeuropean al poporului georgian. având în vedere situația complexă din zona mării negre, avem datoria ca uniune să sprijinim georgia în toate modurile, politic și economic, și să contrabalansăm efortul sistematic de destabilizare din partea rusiei. îi invit în același timp pe prietenii georgieni să construiască un solid sprijin bipartizan pentru succesul reformelor proeuropene. colegi, vă invit să reflectați la georgia ca la o parte din puzzle și să vedem imaginea întreagă a mării negre unde, după anexarea crimeii, rusia a încheiat recent așa-zisul acord de parteneriat strategic cu abhazia, o confirmare explicită a rolului său în crearea conflictului înghețat și apoi în ocuparea acestei provincii prin mijloacele tipice moscovei. în final, doresc să menționez că acest acord de asociere este începutul unui efort dificil, dar necesar pentru țara prietenă și pentru regiunea aceasta atât de importantă strategic pentru uniunea europeană.
mr president, tomorrow parliament will decide on the ratification of the third new-generation association agreement after those with ukraine and the republic of moldova – that of georgia. the ratification not only constitutes a strong recognition of the progress made but also acknowledges georgiaʼs ambition and commitment to a european path. the signing of the agreements between the european union and georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine all took place in brussels on the very same day. tomorrowʼs decision on the association agreement with georgia follows the ratification this parliament voted for earlier this year for ukraine and moldova. this vote finalises a process in this house while also opening a new chapter in relation to the desire and determination of these three countries to come closer to the european union, in line with their citizensʼ aspirations. i am confident that we will confirm the strong majority we witnessed in the vote of the committee on foreign affairs. i call on member states to follow and proceed swiftly with their own ratification process.
mr president, every year armed conflicts, persecution, a lack of economic prospects, human rights violations and natural disasters force millions of people to leave their homes in the horn of africa to embark on dangerous journeys through multiple countries and to cross the mediterranean sea in their efforts to reach europe. during their journey, their hopes for personal safety and for a better future are often destroyed by organised criminal gangs of smugglers and traffickers, by lack of food and water and by unsafe transportation while travelling. once here in europe they are often welcomed with racism, exploitation and exclusion. however, if we step up efforts, our policies will change the lives of millions of people. our decisions will improve the well-being and the living conditions of immigrants. to do this we must first make sure that our development policies address the root causes of immigration. if we support governments, civil organisations and individual citizens in developing countries to implement good governance and to create a more prosperous society that gives a chance to its citizens, then migration finally becomes a free personal choice. secondly, we must remember the benefits that well-protected and integrated migrants have for development, in fuelling growth, innovation and entrepreneurship both in the countries that the people come from and in those they move to. well-managed migration can reduce poverty in the countries of origin by remittance transfers. job opportunities can motivate young people to acquire appropriate skills. there will be a rise in the exchange of goods, capital and knowledge. we are all aware of the fact that migration will only rise in the future, but if we can make it clear in our own minds and to the general public that there is an undeniable positive interconnection between migration and development, then migration will cease to be another world problem and will start being part of the solution. luckily, the interconnection was made clear in the council conclusions adopted last friday on migration in eu development cooperation. this is a necessary first step, and i look forward to hearing how the european commission will implement these conclusions. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i know very well which country i am talking about. as you know, there are programmes of the european union for some of those countries as well, and under all these programmes those countries’ governments should be subject to some requirements from us to implement more laws and rules to protect human rights and democracy and to implement, if possible, a market economy, etc. we have to help those countries to give their citizens a reason to live in their country. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is not the subject of today’s debate. you know, all the countries at present are supporting the country of somalia. it was recognised internationally but, once again, your question is not part of today’s debate.
mr president, today in venezuela many civic and political opposition leaders are in prison. leopoldo lópez is just the most well-known, but almost 100 young activists are in prison and more than 2 000 are under investigation, all for exercising their right to protest against a government which has led the country to the brink of disaster. president maduro and his government must understand that, in a democracy, we compete fairly with our opponents. we do not jail them, with a view to ending their political careers and even lives. the un human rights commissioner called for the release of these prisoners, and so did the committee against torture and the organisation of american states. now the european parliament is calling for their release. we cannot all be considered part of a conspiracy against venezuela. quite the opposite, we want a democratic path for the venezuelan people; we want their safety and prosperity.
mr president, the european union has established itself in international politics as an actor dedicated to promoting democracy and protecting human rights. we can say with confidence that respect for democratic procedures and principles and respect for human rights is not only a political priority in the union's external action, but the very reason for its existence. in these circumstances, we cannot but be concerned about the situation in venezuela, where the rule of law, democratic principles and mechanisms, and the essential rights of every human being are being persistently violated. i therefore support the adoption of this resolution. i think it is important that the european union conveys the message of the need for the principles of democracy and the rule of law, just as i think it is important that the persecution and arbitrary trial of the representatives of the venezuelan opposition, as well as the extrajudicial use of violence, must stop. at the same time, i believe it is important that venezuela take important steps towards guaranteeing the right to freedom of expression and association. it is equally important that all european institutions are involved in this effort and i agree with the resolution's initiators that the high representative needs to play a much more visible role in this regard.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if i have raised this issue - and it is not easy for me - it is because unlike other topics we have discussed here, i have met several times with biram dah abeid, who is an activist engaged in the fight against slavery in mauritania. so it's with some emotion that i'm dealing with this case here. i call on the mauritanian authorities, in a clear and strong manner, to release this man who is fighting for the good of his country. more generally, i believe that mauritania must get out of this logic of denying a reality that is very heavy and must take on the legacy of slavery, and deal with these issues as soon as possible, to give a better life to the mauritanian people.
in writing. – the human rights violations currently occurring in sudan are reprehensible and must be dealt with urgently. the unjust arrest of dr medani is only one among the latest incidents in a long history of abuses by the sudanese government. over the past year, human rights watch reported serious violations of international humanitarian and human rights law; sudanese security forces continue to arrest and detain activists, opposition party members, and people suspected of links to rebel groups. i echo this resolution’s call to strongly denounce the arbitrary arrest and detention of dr medani and to consider it as a reprisal to sanction his legitimate human rights activities. i want to stress the importance of the recent signed agreements on the national dialogue and constitutional process as being instruments in making progress towards national peace, reconciliation and democratic governance in sudan. thus, i strongly urge the commission, the member states and all the international stakeholders to support this initiative and the sudanese people in their transition to an internally reformed democracy and to make all the necessary efforts for the release of dr medani.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
as you have just said, this is a rule in the rules of procedure and we take note of your objection.
before moving to the next item on our agenda, allow me to welcome in the official gallery the president of georgia, giorgi margvelashvili, who has come to strasbourg to witness the historic vote of the consent on the eu-georgia association agreement. (applause)on behalf of the european parliament, a warm welcome to you and congratulations to the georgian people on this remarkable achievement.
we now continue with the vote.
author. - madam president, i would like to move an oral amendment, but, first of all, let me welcome the former president of georgia, mikheil saakashvili, who is also here. (applause and jeers)i would like to move an oral amendment for a new paragraph 16, to read as follows: ‘welcomes the osce/odihr “trial monitoring report georgia” issued on 9 december 2014 and calls on the georgian government to seriously undertake efforts to meet the shortcomings identified therein.’
that concludes the vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the motion for a non-legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. in georgia there is a strong national consensus, as well as across all parties, in favour of the country's integration into both the european union and nato. according to a recent survey by the national democratic institute for international affairs, 69% of the georgian population supports the signing of an association agreement with the european union. the progress made by georgia in respect of human rights, democracy and the rule of law is crowned by the signing of the association agreement. this commitment shows the eu's firm recognition of this progress, as well as georgia's ambition to continue on its pro-european path. the eu is showing solidarity with georgia, moldova and ukraine, and the agreement is not an end in itself but part of a broader process to bring these countries closer to the european ideal.
in writing. — i voted for the ratification of the association agreement with georgia. it is a step forward for a country which is struggling for democracy. we need to continue to support georgia on its way to the european family, to resist the oppression of the russian federation and to overcome the consequences of internal conflicts in the breakaway regions of abkhazia and south ossetia. i support enhanced cooperation with georgia’s reform efforts. the judicial system must become more independent and effective, fully functioning and properly staffed. other specific objectives identified in the last report of freedom house, such as confiscating criminal assets, convicting money launderers and targeting misuse of public funds should be encouraged and observed as metrics of success. while the government of georgia has been taking important steps, the difficult task of fully implementing reforms still lies ahead. the eu should continue to push the georgian government, through the association agenda, to continue the fight against organised crime, corruption, fraud and money laundering at all levels. i call on the member states to ratify the association agreement as soon as possible, so that all its provisions can enter into force without delay.
in writing. - georgia is a long-standing, committed partner for europe. it has been very stubborn in its intention to choose its own path in history. this vote is about respecting that freedom to choose.
that concludes the oral explanations of vote. explicații scrise privind votul
in writing. - — georgia is a long standing, committed partner for europe. it has been very stubborn in its intention to choose its own path in history. this agreement is enshrining the free choice of free peoples, democratically represented.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-georgia association agreement as i support the eu enlargement process and georgia's european path. georgia has a european future, and as a romanian mep, i believe it is our duty to support the european integration process of this state that shares common european values.
