smart specialisation and the creation of networks of excellence for effective cohesion policy is something that can help our regions in a decisive way. better management of available resources goes hand in hand with specialisation in certain well-defined priorities, which will enable the region to gain a competitive advantage. research and innovation are the future of europe's regions, which must constructively assess their strengths and weaknesses. intelligent specialisation is naturally intended to contribute to the development of the region concerned in both economic and social terms. specialization strategies must therefore be democratically determined on the basis of expert analysis enriched by public debate with stakeholders and civil society, of course. in no case should individual priorities be dictated centrally without constructive consultation with the addressees living in the region.
lithuania took over the presidency in a difficult situation. europe was plagued by major social unrest and a severe economic and debt crisis, high unemployment and, in particular, growing dissatisfaction among citizens of the member states with the ineffective and ineffective responses of the eu to rising social tensions. however, the lithuanian presidency has shown that it can take responsibility for matters of importance to the whole of europe. i personally regard the adoption of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 and the annual budget for 2014 as the greatest achievements, as well as the strengthening of the eastern partnership mentioned above. lithuania focused its efforts on strengthening the eu's capacity to provide an adequate and rapid response, whether to economic, financial or social problems. it also managed to reach agreement with the european parliament on directives on bank recovery and resolution and on deposit protection schemes for citizens, which will provide a solid basis for greater financial stability in europe in the future. i hope and believe that the greek presidency will be just as successful.
although the proposed framework for the financing of the european union's consumer policy measures for the coming budgetary period is very modest, the importance of a good allocation of these funds will certainly also be reflected in the assessment of the credibility of the union's work. we must therefore consider very carefully which of the basic objectives we will support more financially in the future and in which areas we will try to save a little. on first examination, the amount planned for the administrative expenditure associated with the implementation of the programme appears to be disproportionately high. the effect of a large number of studies and analyses concerning consumers and this area, which often do not lead to concrete measures, is also questionable. i therefore think, commissioner, that we should really pay more attention to monitoring the general safety of products and to strengthening consumer rights in the retail sector. the activities of various speculative groups operating in the field of internet trading or non-banking financial services would also deserve greater attention from our control and repressive elements.
in writing − on 24 january 2013, lara comi, member of the european parliament, took part in a panel discussion with the leader of the political party, antonio ingroi. the main topics were public procurement and organised crime in connection with the bankruptcy of coopcostruzioni. meanwhile, a discussion has opened up about robert soffritti, who has filed a criminal complaint for the crime of slander. however, laura comi claims that she was only commenting on the subject of public procurement, which she has always dealt with in the european parliament. under article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament, they shall not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of their duties. according to the court, a statement made by a member of the european parliament outside the premises of the european parliament, which gave rise to criminal proceedings in his member state of origin for an offence connected with the expression of an opinion, constitutes an opinion expressed in the exercise of the powers of a member, which is subject to the immunity concerned only if that expression corresponds to a subjective opinion directly and manifestly connected with the exercise of those powers. the committee on legal affairs finds that the statements made by ms comi are clearly connected with the performance of her duties.
in writing − the assent procedure was introduced in 1986 by the single european act in two areas: in association agreements and in agreements governing the accession process. article 81 does not specify the exact form in which the recommendation of the committee is to be submitted. the recommendation takes the form of a legislative resolution by which parliament gives or withholds its consent to the act in question. unless otherwise provided in the treaties, a majority of the votes cast shall be required for parliament to give its consent. in some cases a majority of all members is required, for example in the case of the accession of a new member state or in the case of an electoral procedure. the reasons shall form part of the recommendation submitted by the committee responsible to the plenary. the report proposes that they should no longer be considered inadmissible but that the committee responsible should be able to attach a non-legislative resolution to the recommendation to the designated plenary. this would allow the committees, but also the plenary, to explain their position in more detail. according to the wording of article 81, amendments are also inadmissible on the ground that the statement of reasons is inadmissible. the recommendation of the committee shall not contain any statement of reasons and any amendments should be confined to the operative paragraph. the possibility of tabling amendments is indeed important in order to avoid any doubt as to the precise position of the committees.
in writing − setting emission targets for light commercial vehicles will help reduce fuel consumption and the sustainability of european innovation production. on the other hand, the emission reduction is a clear step forward in the long-term environmental protection target 2020. after several negotiations with the european commission and the council, i believe that the parties have managed to reach an appropriate compromise in setting an emission ceiling of 147 grams per 100 km by 2020. if the original targets set by the commission were to be met, we could easily end up with a global isolation of european producers. by encouraging innovation and improving the performance of cars, we will be able to strike a balance between the economic and environmental requirements of the next generation of commercial vehicles. despite the extremist views faced by the envi committee responsible, i believe that the report presented is in the interests of car manufacturers, who will retain their competitive advantages, and consumers, who will save money on fuel and ultimately protect the environment. despite the fact that this is a very technical and complicated subject for the average user, it is essential that the final consumer is informed of planned changes in legislation directly affecting his personal and labour costs.
in writing − although the production of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles is undergoing unprecedented technological change, these vehicles still account for around 15% of co2 emissions in the eu, including emissions from fuel deliveries, according to statistics. i voted in favour of this current report because i believe that the proposals presented can become an important tool for meeting the eu's targets of reducing total greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 by 20% below 1990 levels and in transforming the transport sector into a zero-carbon sector in line with the eu's climate change policy and the transport white paper. i am convinced that the measures and procedures proposed by the commission can also lead to lower fuel consumption for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, which could ultimately translate into greater economic efficiency and environmental protection in individual eu member states. i also support all the commission proposals which represent a clear and stable legal environment for investment and further incentive for vehicle manufacturers and component suppliers to achieve these objectives.
in writing, the 500 million consumers living in the eu deserve the union to remain vigilant about the provision of safe products and services in the common market. the regulatory framework for the current market conditions requires modernisation in the light of new scientific and technological knowledge and new situations arising in relation to imports of products from third countries. particular attention will need to be paid to protecting the rights of vulnerable consumers, such as children, but also the elderly. raising awareness of rights should also be complemented by increasing knowledge of labelling and logos. consumers also appreciate the increase in quick and reliable notifications of dangerous products, especially in sensitive areas such as children's toys or food. the results of many studies already show that certain risk areas will require a revision of the legislation. however, it is questionable whether and to what extent the envisaged measures will be able to be implemented, as the proposed budget appears inadequate. the consumer programme 2014-2020 contains many ambitious targets for the well-being of eu citizens, and i therefore hope that they will be achieved within the timeframe set.
in writing − regulation (ec) no 774/94 empowers the european commission to adopt the necessary implementing measures and to amend the regulation if it is necessary to adjust the volume of quotas and other provisions on quotas. the treaty of lisbon has established a system of delegated and implementing acts, which it is necessary to align with those powers and to confer on the european commission the implementing powers concerned. the majority of the legislation in the field of trade has already been aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and it is therefore necessary to reflect those changes. they shall in particular concern the involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts. for the sake of alignment, it is necessary to remove references to the comitology procedure and to the provisions of the future harmonised single cmo regulation. those provisions should be directly inserted in the amending regulation, thus ensuring that the committee on international trade retains the right to scrutinise the implementing acts.
in writing − if you have the legislative package is currently being aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union through the trade package i - regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures and the trade package ii - regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of power to adopt certain measures. the purpose is to harmonise three council regulations, namely no 2008/97 on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products originating in turkey, no 779/98 on imports of agricultural products originating in turkey conferring powers on the commission to adopt implementing measures for the application of the import arrangements for products and no 1506/98 on the concession in the form of a community tariff quota for turkey in 1998 for hazelnuts and suspending certain concessions in the field of imports of olive oil and other agricultural products by the acts in question.
in writing − the current legal framework dates back to 1990 and therefore needs to be updated to take account of technological developments, innovation, market developments and consumer expectations regarding quality and production methods. the european union is one of the world leaders in the production of aromatised wine products with well-established producers in the member states. it is therefore necessary to align the current legal framework with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on delegated and implementing acts. the proposal consists mainly of technical adaptations to existing rules and also of reforms to the european wine sector policy and the single common market organisation. it is necessary to simplify the applicability and clarity of the european union legislation on aromatised wine products, as well as to update trade names and improve consumer information. the aromatised wine products should refer to the organic nature of the products used. this amendment would indeed be a positive addition to the framework of future rules on the oenological practices applicable to organic wines.
in writing − although i consider europe to be one of the world leaders in the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies, i consider the current state of its development to be inadequate. i believe that this unfavourable situation is due to a number of factors, among which are certainly the lack of long-term economic relevance, the high cost of ccs technologies and the lack of public awareness. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that if we are to achieve the set targets of reducing greenhouse gases by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, it is essential that the eu takes measures that create more favourable and more stimulating conditions for economic operators. i also supported the report because i consider the introduction of ccs to be one of the necessary measures that can mitigate the consequences and impacts of climate change on man and his environment. i expect that despite the many negative and rejecting attitudes of some member states and the public towards the prohibition or restriction of co2 storage on their territory, there will be a reassessment. i am convinced that the development of ccs could also bring greater job security in the industrial sectors.
the significant cuts in many member states in recent years have also affected the health sector. for many people, health services have thus become less accessible financially or even geographically, which is contrary to the right to equal access to universal health care. in this respect, ehealth, which is the subject of today's debate, has the potential to reduce health inequalities and increase the efficiency of existing health systems, and i therefore welcome the idea of ehealth. the ehealth system brings with it, among its many advantages, a number of important issues to which a clear legal response needs to be provided in the form of a transparent legal framework. patients deserve a high level of protection of personal data to prevent the misuse of sensitive personal information. in order to ensure equal access to healthcare for all, ehealth should also take into account the increase of digital literacy, especially of people in remote areas, but also of the older generation, which should not be marginalised by the nature of the matter.
in writing − i consider information and communication systems and technologies to be the most important factors in the development of each country's economies, which is why i fully support the electronisation of every area, including healthcare. i am convinced that information and communication technologies have now reached a sufficiently advanced level and could therefore also be used in ehealth systems. i think the results that have been achieved in different countries clearly confirm the validity and the correctness of the path that we have taken in innovative health care. while some positive results have been achieved in the field of health, i am particularly concerned that there is a digital divide between the different regions of the member states. i therefore expect that sufficient action will be taken at eu and member state level to ensure that access to and use of ehealth does not become a source of social and territorial inequalities. i also voted in favour of the report because i believe that the proposed changes can help the health sector to further improve the quality and efficiency of the health services provided and to increase citizens' satisfaction with the health system.
in writing − the european food sector, worth €715 billion a year, puts food on the table every day for 500 million european citizens who deserve high-quality and safe food. unfortunately, these sectors have been rocked by a number of major scandals in recent years, which have eroded consumer confidence in the european agro-industry. i consider it absolutely unacceptable that cases of serious food fraud are appearing in the eu, such as the labelling of horse meat as beef, the use of fats with dioxins or other harmful substances in the production of feed, the mislabelling of meat and fish products, the confusion of pasta and food salt, the falsification of the guarantee period or the re-freezing of meat, and others. enforcement of relatively detailed food law must therefore be reinforced by increasing regular unannounced inspections at all stages of the production and distribution chain. if infringements are found, firm action and appropriate fines should be imposed. for these reasons, i am voting for the report on the food crisis and fraud in the food chain.
in writing food safety and consumer interests and public health and food safety as a whole have always been at the heart of the eu's concerns. cases such as the use of pasta salt in polish food or the recent horse meat scandal point to a persistent structural problem. food fraud has a negative impact on consumer confidence in the food chain and on distributors. food is safer than ever before, yet consumer confidence is still declining. the eu does not have a generally accepted definition of food fraud, as current eu legislation focuses mainly on food safety. therefore, it is difficult to determine the current extent of food fraud in the eu, although according to several sources it is increasing. the most common types of food fraud include counterfeiting, substitution, manipulation or imitation. the most endangered products are fish, oil and organic food. it is therefore necessary to establish a network to combat food fraud and to define clearly the concept of 'food fraud'. until now, the indication of origin has only applied to fresh meat, but in the interests of safety, such indication should also apply to processed food. food fraud is becoming more frequent and member states must therefore act as soon as possible. checks must be more effective and more frequent, and food fraud must be adequately punished. their main objective is to safeguard public health and restore consumer confidence.
in writing − i supported the report because food fraud has become very common in recent times. it is not just the horse meat instead of beef scandal, but we can give many more examples. we focus on food safety in eu legislation, but we also need to include the concept of food fraud in the legislation. consumers buy organic eggs that are caged, olive oil that is not olive, quality coffee that contains coffee substitutes. we're eating road salt instead of food. fraud also occurs when a manufacturer markets a seemingly identical product on two separate markets, but with different quality ingredients. the risks of food fraud being detected are very low and the penalties are low. the proposed increase of penalties to twice the estimated economic profit will not eliminate fraud in the food chain either, and it is therefore necessary to criminalise the concept of food fraud in order to protect consumers. increased vigilance, consumer awareness and systematic monitoring could also play a better role in detecting and combating fraud in the food chain.
in writing − if you have according to the latest studies, illegal work in eu countries has reached up to 18%, with some countries approaching 30%. our national labour inspectorates play an important role in enforcement. on the other hand, they also play an equally important role in protecting workers' rights. it is therefore necessary to combat abuse of the system. i see one possible way out in cross-border cooperation. currently, employment relationships cross the borders of eu member states. the european labour market is a network of different subcontractors. it is in these cases that fraud is extremely difficult to detect. tough penalties for abuse of the system are another possible solution to the problem of unregistered work. it is essential to establish a functioning system of prevention at european level and to establish the same rules for workers in the same sector, regardless of the place of work. this would be served by a european electronic platform for labour inspectors, which would generally seek to ensure adequate social protection for workers as well as for vulnerable groups of workers. the economic crisis of the past few years has had a number of adverse consequences for eu citizens. exploitation, social dumping and fraud by employers are eroding citizens' prospects for the future. i believe that our job is to ensure that the rules are such that fraud committed either by the state or by the workers themselves is not paid for by the employer.
in writing − if you have in the new 2014-2020 programming period, up to eur 366,8 billion will be made available for investment in europe's regions, cities and the real economy. these investments will be a key instrument for achieving the europe 2020 objectives of creating jobs, growth, combating climate change and energy dependence, and, not least, reducing poverty and social exclusion. it is essential that funds are spent more efficiently, as national, local and regional budgets are under increasing pressure in the current economic environment. for many member states and regions, cohesion policy funding is therefore increasingly important. member states and regions must take the necessary steps to prepare partnership agreements and operational programmes in a timely and effective manner so as to be ready to apply funds as soon as possible after agreement has been reached on a regulation on common provisions. the involvement of local and regional authorities will be very important, as it will give regions more flexibility to set priorities according to their own needs. a thorough analysis of the 2007-2013 programming period can help individual member states to implement cohesion policy funding effectively. the process of approving partnership agreements and operational programmes needs to be accelerated.
in writing −the plastics industry in europe generates an approximate annual turnover of eur 300 million and employs 1.54 million people. it is therefore necessary to lay down the specific measures to be taken and the objectives to be set in the field of waste management legislation in the european union. plastic waste should be considered a valuable resource and new legislation should provide ways to reduce plastic waste in the first place. the measures should aim at a timely revision of the packaging directive, defining collection, sorting and recycling targets and supporting the creation of corresponding infrastructures, introducing processing methods for different types of plastics, hazardous plastics to be phased out or banned in 2020, reducing and phasing out the production of single-use plastic carrier bags, increasing public and private investment in research and development of sustainable plastics. the european union and the member states must tackle the illegal export and storage of plastic waste. consumer awareness is low, as they often lack basic information on the recyclability of the plastic product they have purchased. another key step is to promote public awareness through campaigns such as the european day against plastic waste. local authorities must make increased efforts to dispose of municipal and industrial plastic waste.
in writing − currently, almost 40 per cent of waste comes from packaging. plastic packaging, including bags, should not be seen as waste but rather as a valuable resource that can be reused. the modern european economy should gradually move from simply incinerating its waste to more thorough recycling. therefore, producers and the public should be encouraged to improve collection, sorting and recycling. in the end, modern and efficient waste management is an area that is part of sustainable and smart growth and creates many new jobs, including for professionals. for these reasons, i welcome the report on plastic waste.
written − the plastics manufacturing and processing sector in europe generates an approximate annual turnover of eur 300 billion and employs 1.54 million people. however, the data on waste is not consolidated, ranging from 25 megatons produced in 2008 according to the european commission to 13 megatons in 2010 according to the european environment agency. without comparable data and figures on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is not possible to develop a targeted and effective policy, in particular as regards the actions needed to prevent illegal waste flows. the impact of plastic waste on the environment is still underestimated, so one of the important steps is the revision of the packaging and waste regulation. plastic materials are becoming more diverse and their use is expanding, leading to higher waste volumes and more frequent combinations with other materials. therefore, new and efficient ways of processing different types of plastics need to be sought. at the same time, we must strive to ban dangerous plastics by 2020, reduce or eliminate the use of single-use plastics and promote the production of safe biodegradable bioplastics.
in writing − first of all, i would like to commend the rapporteur for the very high quality and detailed treatment of the issue of plastic waste in the environment. plastic waste is a major environmental problem and is now a problem for municipal policy in particular. when i was mayor of a large 30,000-person urban area in košice, eastern slovakia, the biggest problem after every windstorm was plastic bags, plastic bags in lawns, in public spaces, and as unwanted ornaments on trees and shrubs. the problem of sorting plastic waste is insufficient. plastic waste is not recycled but incinerated, which again negatively affects the environment. this is another reason why i supported the report, because the target of 75% recycled plastics by 2020 is realistic. i also encourage funding for science and research and development for better practices in recycling, collecting and sorting plastics.
in writing − if you have the concept of balanced territorial development is of great importance to the european union. since the end of the 1990s, the european union has had a rural development policy. the concept first appeared at a conference in cork. the lisbon treaty now defines very clearly the concept of 'land', which was taken over from the reforms of the regional policy and the common agricultural policy. in order to maintain the competitiveness and development of the agricultural sector, it is important that the european union in the future establish a european regional quality label to present the quality of products specific to a given territory and to promote them more effectively on regional, national or international markets. promoting rural development is important for dynamic territorial development. an effective and professionally organised rural system will have a better chance of surviving globalisation and societal change. more management resources need to be allocated to strengthen land management, as they play an indispensable role in resource identification and use.
written − regional quality labels are designed by the regions to strengthen their position and increase their competitiveness in the markets. the quality of products originating in a given territory is determined by the specific methods of preparation which are inextricably linked to the geographical character, cultural heritage and unique know-how of the region. rural areas, often dependent on agriculture, such as mountain regions, can, on the basis of a regional quality label, rebuild their position on the product market, but also on the service market, thus ensuring sustainable employment development. the visibility of quality products characteristic of a given territory on more distant markets has the potential to bring income to the territory from an economic point of view and also to increase its tourist attractiveness through the revival of traditional production methods based on the unique cultural and historical heritage of the site. in recent years, handicraft has become a major tourist attraction. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report on regional quality labels.
public procurement is a significant part of the economy, accounting for almost 19% of the union's gdp. their effective implementation can make a significant contribution to boosting investment and overcoming the european economic crisis. it is important to award public contracts in an efficient and socially sustainable manner. failure to comply with obligations in the field of social and labour law and environmental law shall be considered as a reason for exclusion. the concept of the lowest price should be definitively abolished and replaced by the concept of the most economically advantageous tender. it is also important that smes are effectively involved in the form of effective subcontracting. the introduction of the principle of responsibility throughout the subcontracting chain is necessary in order to ensure respect for fundamental rights, the health and safety of workers and the applicable provisions of labour law. the goal is to simplify procurement. member states should provide contracting entities with the technical and financial means to adapt to online procurement procedures.
public procurement is an integral part of a well-functioning economy and as such must stimulate competition, innovation and growth. the single public procurement rules will significantly increase transparency and equal treatment, opening the door to greater participation by smes, which are the backbone of the european economy. in this context, i stress the need to simplify public procurement and eliminate red tape, for example by systematically using electronic procurement. as regards environmental and social standards, i am convinced that the criterion of the lowest price should not be the sole criterion for awarding contracts. the contracting authority must deal with a particular situation in a comprehensive manner with a long-term perspective. the most economically advantageous tender must therefore be assessed in terms of the economic but also the social and environmental benefits.
public procurement contracts are an important part of the economy and therefore the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules on the one hand and introducing orderly and efficient tender evaluation procedures on the other. however, we must guarantee a higher participation of smes and also increase the use of electronic public procurement. in order to increase transparency, any entity that does not comply with obligations arising from social, labour and environmental law, whether defined in national or european legislation and in collective agreements concluded in accordance with union law, should also be excluded from public procurement. it is also inadmissible for contracting authorities to award a contract to a tenderer who, although submitting the most favourable tender, is unable to provide, for example, updated information on the payment of his social security contributions or is left in arrears to his subcontractors.
in writing. to boost economic growth, employment, social inclusion, fight for greater transparency and fight against corruption, we also need to modernise public procurement, which represents 19% of the union's gdp. successful revision and implementation of public procurement rules will therefore help to restore investment in the real economy and overcome the european economic crisis. it is high time that we replaced the concept of 'lowest price' with the concept of 'most economically advantageous tender'. in slovakia, too, some firms distort competition by deliberately undercutting prices in order to succeed at all costs. then they're not able to complete the contract. they don't pay their subcontractors. it causes a chain of insolvencies and the liquidation of the weakest. often the investor, in many cases the towns and municipalities, will lose access to the funds and get into huge trouble because of the non-closure of the contract. provisions on abnormally low tenders need to be strengthened to prevent any possibility of subcontracting which does not respect labour rights o.the european union must be able to give preference to domestic producers in certain specific cases when awarding public contracts. v.in the context of simplifying public procurement, the expansion of electronic procurement will benefit in this area, we expect annual savings of between 80 and 100 million eu r. and
the european commission's 2011 judgment that pollen should be considered as a component of honey and not a natural constituent, whether one likes it or not, and whether this is true or not, made it clear that strict labelling requirements for the indication of genetically modified content should also apply to honey. but the european commission's current proposal declares pollen to be a component of honey, which may be true, but it means that it will never be labelled as containing gmos. at first glance, this seems to be a simple legal issue, but upon closer examination, the proposal has serious adverse consequences. it removes the freedom of choice for gmo-containing and non-gmo products. the absence of a labelling obligation would result in the loss of the eu standard guaranteeing the safety of non-gmo honey production. by bypassing labelling requirements, the commission's proposal would thus favour trade in honey from third countries, mainly from non-eu producers and exporters of honey containing gmos. therefore, the interests of european beekeepers and consumers of high-quality honey should be protected so that they can continue to be free to choose whether to consume products containing gmos on the european market.
for the efd group if we want to talk responsibly about the reindustrialisation of the union, we have to look at the main causes of the great loss of our production capacity. many of our employers tell us openly that they have already moved their products from europe to other parts of the world under the pressure of increasingly complex and stringent eu regulations. european companies, which have grown, enriched and become stronger thanks to the work and skills of our people, are still running away in the interests of their survival. they moved iron manufacturing to india, textile and glass production to china, electrical engineering to south korea, china, or taiwan, and pharmaceutical production to the united states and india. their former employees stayed here and are mostly out of work. our car manufacturers from brazil to the united states, russia, turkey and china are building new factories virtually all over the world. where they have better business conditions, they provide jobs and help to improve the quality of life. since 2008, our brussels administration, with its insidious and bureaucratic management of the economy, has cost us almost four million jobs. ladies and gentlemen, without a more sensitive approach to employers and respect for the elementary rules of the market in shaping the economic environment, we will never replace the lost industrial capacity.
the european union is one of the world's leading economic powers, but unfortunately, it's not spectacular these days. the crisis has hit our economy hard, not sparing the industrial sector. more than 3.8 million jobs have been lost, putting our social welfare in a hopeless situation. our unemployment rate, especially among young people, is on the rise. european industry has a key role to play in meeting the challenges we face. it not only provides jobs, services or tax revenues, but is also a key factor in the transition to a low-carbon economy. to catch up, we need to invest enough in research and human capital, because these are the things that are holding us back from moving to an innovation-based economy. smes are very important in innovation because they are more flexible in responding to change. so we need a funding system that gives them access to the capital they need to innovate. the spread of local agricultural micro-enterprises can also contribute to economic recovery. raw materials and energy resources are of central importance for the development of european industry. without some key raw materials, most of europe's strategic industries will not be able to develop in the future. ensuring a transparent energy market is also essential for international competitiveness. ensure access to safe, sustainable, affordable and reliable energy. support for cohesion policy and the european structural and investment funds is essential for modern reindustrialisation of the eu and its regions. clear industrial competitiveness policy strategies should be defined both at union level and in the national reform programmes. providing a skilled workforce is also essential for a well-functioning industry, so we need to pay more attention to education and research to develop scientific research centres at the forefront of international development. in this regard, union programmes and instruments, including horizon 2020 and the european institute of innovation and technology, should play an important role.
in writing − if you have for the 2007-2013 programming period, there was a specific programme on the prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security risks, which served to prevent potential terrorist attacks and other acts that threaten the security of the population. it also focused on the protection of critical infrastructure. this programme will be replaced by the internal security fund in the next programming period 2014-2020. given that the specific programme on the prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security risks was adopted on the basis of a dual legal basis, a separate legal act is necessary to repeal it.
in writing − the european union and the russian federation have been cooperating in science and technology for 13 years. this cooperation shall be based on the promotion of innovation and economic competitiveness. the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation was signed in 2000 and renewed by decision 2009/313/ec in march 2009. it is currently proposed to renew the agreement for another 5 years. the renewal of this agreement is important for the relations between the two partners as it also has implications for the ongoing negotiations on visa facilitation between the european union and russia. relations between the european union and russia are not always ideal, but the results of scientific and technical cooperation bring useful innovations and beneficial outcomes for all parties involved.
in writing, the european consumer has recently been exposed to an increasing number of counterfeit euro coins. the european institutions are trying to deal promptly with the issue of counterfeiting, as evidenced by the recent introduction of the new five- and ten-euro banknotes. however, counterfeiting is not limited to banknotes but also to coins. it is therefore necessary to recast council regulation (ec) no 975/98 of 3 may 1998 on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation. the revised text specifies the technical details of the euro circulation coins and removes the indicative character of the thickness of the euro coins.
in writing − asean is a geopolitical association of 10 countries in southeast asia. it acts as an intergovernmental organisation to improve economic, political and cultural cooperation. the economies of the countries that are grouped in asean are comparable to china. in the future, it is necessary to strengthen the dialogue on human rights and to pay attention to the issue of poverty reduction and the promotion of social standards, in line with the convention on the international labour organisation and corporate social responsibility. an ambitious process of internal integration within asean is underway, and the emerging political powers and democratic challenges facing the new asean presidency, particularly in terms of its rapid transformation and development towards democracy, are emerging. the good relationship between the european union and asean will certainly be helped in the future by the withdrawal of political problems in the region.
in writing − tachographs are used to monitor road traffic and compliance with rules to ensure safety and decent working conditions for drivers. the new regulation will improve the use of the digital tachograph, a device installed in a vehicle and used to monitor its operation. a balance has been struck between greater road safety and working conditions on the one hand and respect for the private life of drivers on the other. smart tachographs will be put into practice, which will serve as a means to improve enforcement and also reduce the administrative burden on transport companies. within 15 years of the introduction of smart tachographs on the market, all vehicles should be equipped with such a tachograph. the proposal to merge driving licences and driver cards was considered at this stage to be underdeveloped and unprepared and was therefore omitted from the text. according to the agreed text, the use of tachographs is not mandatory for trucks of less than 7,5 tonnes used for the transport of materials, equipment or machinery used by the driver in the course of his work and used only within a 100 km radius of the company's base, provided that driving the vehicle is not the driver's main activity.
in writing − if you have although the eu and aetr states have established a common system of recording driver activities for the purpose of checking compliance with social legislation, on average 9% of vehicles inspected are found to be in breach of the rules, according to the european commission. in particular, about one quarter of them were found to have infringed the tachograph rules. i support the report because it comes with new proposals which i believe will make it at least if not completely difficult to eradicate fraudulent practices with tachographs, reduce the administrative burden, simplify the technology which will be available at an acceptable cost and limit member states' investments as much as possible. i am pleased that some new provisions on the functions of tachographs have also been incorporated into the regulation and that the proposed regulation has strengthened the protection of personal data and the protection of drivers' privacy stored in the system. i also welcome the fact that the regulation allows for the exemption of the use of tachographs for certain users within the uniformly extended circuit.
in writing. − if you have in december 2011, the european commission presented an important package of legislative proposals on public procurement and a new directive on the treatment of works and service concessions, as announced in single market act i. public contracts, unlike concessions, have specifically defined rules. concessions, on the other hand, are subject only to the basic provisions of existing directives or to the general principles laid down in the treaty. experience has shown that a legislative initiative in the field of concessions is necessary to strengthen the legal framework, stability and certainty. it is necessary to focus on simplifying and clarifying the existing directive in order to ensure a systematic legal framework, adapt the concept of the concession to the concept of the open contract, the independence of public authorities in the choice of the legal framework and in the setting of quality criteria for service concessions and, last but not least, to maintain the necessary transparency necessary for equal treatment of economic operators. the internal market of the european union is marked by a lack of legal certainty and by clientelism in the form of direct agreements between public authorities and selected partners.
in writing − public procurement is an important part of the economy, accounting for up to 19% of eu gdp. the modernisation of the public procurement directives should lead to a revival of investment in the real economy and to overcoming the crisis. similarly, a balance should be struck between simplifying rules on the one hand and introducing sound and efficient procedures based on innovative and sustainable criteria for evaluating tenders on the other, while also ensuring greater participation by member states and extending the use of electronic public procurement. any entity that fails to comply with an obligation under social, labour and environmental law, as defined in national and european legislation and collective agreements concluded in accordance with european union law, should be excluded from public procurement. similarly, contracting authorities may not award a contract to the tenderer who submitted the best tender if that economic operator is unable to provide up-to-date information on the payment of its social security contributions. each contracting authority should have at its disposal a set of tools to enable it to choose the most appropriate procedure in the light of its needs. member states should provide contracting authorities with the technical and financial means they need to adapt to electronic procurement procedures and to draw up calls for tender.
in writing − i supported the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on public procurement, as it creates the conditions for reviewing and modernising public procurement in order to increase the efficiency of public expenditure. i very much welcome the replacement of the concept of 'lowest price' by that of 'most economically advantageous offer', which must take account of environmental and social aspects without compromising the primary quality criterion. the report also introduces further simplifying rules for local authorities and higher territorial units. the rules for suppliers and subcontractors eliminate the chain of exploitation or degradation of public procurement contracts. more flexible and transparent rules, in turn, create space for smes by lowering the turnover criteria. the proposal also creates, among other improvements, a reduction in red tape so that their participation in competitions does not cost too much effort.
in writing − if you have to maintain employment, social inclusion and sustainable growth, the potential of public procurement needs to be exploited to the maximum extent possible. it is necessary to introduce technical specifications containing tender documents in order to enable the contracting authority to achieve the sustainability objectives it has set. in the context of effective and transparent public procurement, it is necessary to strengthen the grounds for exclusion of a tenderer who breaches its obligations in relation to social and labour law and gender equality as defined in national and european legislation and collective agreements. similarly, contracting authorities cannot award the contract to the best tender unless the economic operator is able to provide up-to-date information on the payment of social contributions. in order to meet the objectives of the procurement, it is important that member states are able to control the performance of the economic operator that has been awarded the contract. national managing authorities should be relieved of any additional administrative burden in order to guarantee the proper functioning of public procurement and not to slow down their activities.
in writing − third countries are not willing to open their public procurement markets to international competition. currently, suppliers from the european union face a variety of restrictive procurement practices. the european union, on the other hand, has kept its public procurement market largely open. on 21 march 2012, the european commission presented an initiative on international procurement to leverage bilateral trade negotiations with third countries in the context of the opening of public procurement markets. the european commission is thus responding to the ever-growing discrepancy between the ambitions and interests of the major trading partners on the one hand and the practices of the major trading partners on the other. the european commission's proposal consists of two procedures. the first procedure is a mechanism that allows a national contracting authority to exclude third-country tenders if it feels that european companies do not have equal access to the third-country market. the second procedure allows the european commission to open its own investigation into the equal access of european companies to the contracting market of a third country and subsequently to take the necessary measures.
the court's ruling raised fundamental questions concerning the coexistence of genetically modified crops and beekeeping. the court has held that the placing on the market of honey containing genetically modified pollen requires an authorisation under article 4 (2) of regulation 1829/2003, and that conclusion applies irrespective of whether the pollen is defined as an ingredient or a constituent. european consumers deserve to be informed in the truth about which foods contain genetically modified ingredients so that they can make an informed decision. i would point out, however, that this directive, on which we voted, is mainly aimed at importers from other countries, such as the usa, where gmos (genetically modified food) are widespread and whose products are flooding the european market. that is why i voted not to harm beekeepers from small countries, including slovakia.
in writing − the commission's proposal is a response to the recent ruling of the court of justice of the european union in the case of the land of bavaria v k.h. bablock association of amateur beekeepers. the eu ds has decided that pollen is an ingredient, not a natural part of honey, and therefore food containing genetically modified components such as pollen must be labelled as a genetically modified product if the percentage of genetically modified components is higher than 0,9%. honey in circulation in the eu, including imported honey, should be checked for the presence of genetically modified pollen. the proposal from the european commission would allow it to amend the technical parameters concerning the names, product descriptions and definitions. the power to adopt delegated acts in respect of non-essential elements should continue to be conferred on the commission. for example, as regards the establishment of a method for verifying that honey complies with the provisions of the directive.
written − the hercule iii programme is designed to protect the financial interests of the european union. the programme in question was launched at the end of 2011. the main objective of this programme is to make more effective the fight against cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting, to which the european commission has committed itself through international agreements. while it is important to prevent activities that threaten the financial interests of the european union, the effectiveness of similar programmes in the context of the financial and economic crisis is questionable, particularly in terms of respecting budgetary responsibility. for the 2014-2020 programming period, it is important to avoid overlaps between similar programmes, in particular with a budget of eur 110 million, which represents a significant increase over hercule ii. the total financial envelope will depend on the outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework.
i agree in principle that this whole discussion is very undignified towards the people of those member states of the european union which have joined the european union since 2004, including romania and bulgaria. and even though we are in different political groups, i agree that the biggest critics from france, from the uk, from italy, their companies are with us in our country, their companies are paying our people in our countries much less than they pay their employees in their countries, and here in the debate... (chairman taking the floor)
colleagues, some countries have traditionally been stirring up hysteria about the free movement of persons within the eu. now it's great britain, in the past it was germany or austria. it doesn't matter. the problem lies elsewhere: these are the countries that are happy to attract skilled workers and offer them various benefits. qualified forces who have been trained at the expense of another country and now have their skills to pass on to another country. well, today we're in the eu, we're basically one country, and we're citizens of the same "country". but then it has to go both ways: those countries that attract skilled labor from poorer countries cannot deny access to people with less skills or choose who can and cannot come into the country. just take the cream. they must have an equal share in the support of the poor, in their social support, but also accept competition in the labour market. this is solidarity, but not just that: it is justice, equal for every eu citizen, no matter what country he or she is from. you can't just take the benefits and ignore the costs. the rich countries of europe must recognize this and act accordingly.
the sale of maltese and european citizenship to third-country applicants by the maltese administration is a less sophisticated form of similar arrangements in other countries offering the right of residence for business investment, real estate or government bonds. although decisions on citizenship are a matter for member states, there are certain aspects of malta's citizenship trading regime which are seriously embarrassing. malta became the first country to simply put a price tag on european citizenship, put it on the market and start making money off the rights that the 28 member states have committed to give european citizens. from the point of view of other states, such an act by the maltese administration is not neutral. other member states will have to recognise and grant the right of establishment, freedom of movement, the right to stand for election to the european parliament and so on to the holder of a maltese passport. i am therefore convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the ongoing trade in european citizenship must be stopped in time.
i would first like to thank commissioner füle and the two rapporteurs for their positive contribution to the enlargement of the european union, because the example of serbia and kosovo shows that this policy is continuing and is producing results. the progress made by serbia in the past year is remarkable. i appreciate the commitment and the actions of the current government in relation to reforms. i just want to point out that we expect real reforms, no tinkering, no cleverness, and we expect full implementation. but with it comes greater responsibility. responsibility for commitments to european partners, to eu values, and to its own citizens. the negotiations awaiting serbia will be long and arduous. however, i believe that the serbian government will show the confidence it has received from its european partners and from its voters in the successful launching of accession negotiations and in their successful conclusion. as far as kosovo is concerned, last year's agreement between pristina and belgrade is a historic event. however, the shift in relations between them must continue. the union should monitor and control its implementation. the start of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement, well-run local elections and progress on some reforms are signals that kosovo is also making progress. on the union side, we should seek the widest possible support for kosovo's participation in regional and international organisations, because this gives more responsibility to political leaders, also for domestic affairs, and we should make progress on visa liberalisation, because kosovo remains an isolated country in the balkans and this is not good for them or for us.
i welcome the progress in the negotiations between serbia and kosovo. the slovak republic does not recognise kosovo's independence precisely because it is not the result of the belgrade-pristina agreement. the violent disappearance of new states is an unacceptable precedent for the european union, but the european union must make its own political decisions to ensure that a similar process cannot be repeated anywhere in europe. this is a timely challenge, as separatist movements are becoming more and more active in the european union. the problem is not to be solved by putting it down to the level of member states on the one hand and the un on the other. the european union must reject illegitimate and illegal practices of separation of territories, minorities and ethnic groups. only an agreement can be a ticket to the eu. i can assure not only mr posselt or mr bokros, but all of you, that the moment belgrade and pristina agree, the slovak republic will accept the agreement.
i believe that today it is necessary to acknowledge serbia's progress towards integration into the european union. we'll open accession negotiations virtually with an ngo conference next week and serbia will become the integration leader in the region. serbia has done a great deal in the past to demonstrate that it can reform the political system, transform the economy and modernise the judiciary. the serbian government's constructive approach to its neighbours has helped stabilise the region and is becoming a fitting example for neighbouring countries looking to their political future. i think we all realize that serbia is now facing the most difficult stage of the country's transformation and that it will require not only our challenges and recommendations, but also qualified advice and perhaps sometimes patience and understanding, so that the changes made in the structure of the country are not just a matter for the state administration, but that they are also accepted by the citizens of this country.
in writing. i wish to join my colleagues in urging the five eu member states greece, cyprus, romania, slovakia and spain which have not yet recognised kosovo as an independent state to do so as soon as possible. i am making this urgent appeal because i believe that these member states have no reason to fear that the case of kosovo could set an example within the eu. the eu member states have all recognised the protection of minorities as a common value by the treaty of lisbon. only a country that respects minority rights can become a member of the eu under the copenhagen criteria. member states that have not yet recognised kosovo should recognise that minorities living on their territory can only become truly cooperative partners if their rights are adequately protected in the linguistic, cultural, educational and political fields. by consistently ensuring internationally guaranteed minority and linguistic rights, minority groups in the member states can feel at home in their homeland. our task is to further develop this kind of minority protection within the eu for the sake of european cultural diversity and peaceful coexistence (as well as ensuring equal rights for eu citizens).
the deteriorating economic situation in europe and the increasing influx of migrants have highlighted the problems of homelessness in several member states of the union. surviving on the streets during the winter months without a dry, warm bed is challenging even for a healthy, well-groomed man. this is especially true when mothers and children are in this situation. the social system must therefore be prepared to register such cases promptly and, within its means, to provide the necessary assistance to the persons concerned. although our current mechanisms for providing aid to people in need have long provided aid to the homeless, they are not able to respond quickly to the surge in homelessness today. i therefore think that we need to examine rapidly the possibilities of increasing the efficiency of our mechanisms so that they are able to provide more effective assistance to these cases even during this period.
i support the resolution, although i have doubts about the meaning of many of the recommendations contained in the motion for a resolution. in my view, it is not possible to develop a common strategy for homelessness for all member states of the union. just as it is not possible to introduce a single minimum wage, a single pension or a single social security system. the reason is always the same: huge differences between member states in the performance of their economies, in labour productivity, in the traditions of state administration, or in the different levels of family relations and solidarity between generations. however, i agree that the member states alone have the competence to deal with the situation of the homeless. european legislation should not deal with the issue of homelessness, because the result can only be a series of flattering statistics and meaningless recommendations, and that does not help the homeless.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, with full respect to article 168 of the lisbon treaty, the ppe group is standing firm on the position that sexual and reproductive health and rights come under subsidiarity and, as such, under the competence and responsibility of the member states. it was clear that different traditions, situations and legislation in the member states divide european public opinion – as well as this house – just as it was clear last time when parliament rejected the estrela report. we cannot impose or recommend solutions which are profoundly unacceptable in different member states on such a sensitive issue. what we can and should do is to support improvements in healthcare for pregnant women and mothers, and to improve the conditions for reproductive health, as maternal mortality is still high in some member states, as was stated by the commission. on the other hand, the statistics show that 15 % of couples are infertile. in this field, the commission should facilitate the exchange of best practices. what we can and should do is follow the principle of non-discrimination as one of the main values of the union in the accessibility of health services. what we can and should do is step up efforts to eliminate violence against women and girls: not just because it often results in a deterioration of sexual and reproductive health, but also because it is a serious offence against human dignity. what we can and should do is strengthen the fight against female genital mutilation (fgm) as a special form of violence which is also present in the european union and which often stays hidden and goes unpunished. there is a lot of room for better law enforcement, because many violent acts against women and girls go unpunished, while victims are stigmatised.
the will of parliament was expressed twice when it rejected estelle's scandalous, ideologically motivated report. legislation in the field of health, including reproduction, falls under the exclusive competence of the member states, under the current treaties on the european union. the judgment of the supreme court of luxembourg of october 2011 in the trial of experiments on living embryos says that human life begins with fertilization, conception and that from that moment it also has an inalienable human dignity. and as a doctor, i sign that too. in pregnancy, not only the rights of the woman are decided, but also the rights of the unborn child. this child already has full legal right of inheritance, but interestingly, no birthright. and the left here is fighting for the systematic elimination of healthy human beings.
today's debate offers us the opportunity to reaffirm what we decided in our resolution of 10 december 2013: that the development and implementation of policies on sexual and reproductive health and rights and on sexuality education in schools is a competence of the member states. but to circumvent our resolution, the issue of abortion is placed on the agenda of non-discrimination in this debate, so that some competence is granted to the european institutions. this procedure shows the limits of the european system: political efforts are reinterpreted until they correspond to pre-established political solutions. we're trying to disrespect the member states on sensitive ethical issues. this discussion essentially serves as an attack on the christian-democratic government in spain. i'm sorry i can't speak spanish, but i feel solidarity with the spanish government and millions of spanish citizens. in conclusion, i call on the spanish people and all citizens who defend life before birth and the right of women to become mothers not to lose faith in the european project. exercise your right during the european parliament elections in may.
written − the european union has been going through a period of economic and financial crisis in recent years and needs to kickstart economic dynamism. the crisis has hit the industry hard, with 3.8 million jobs lost. the european union is lagging far behind japan and china in industrial strategies, which have presented industrial plans and plans for the strategic development of their industries. the european commission took the lead with a communication entitled 'a stronger european industry'. europe needs to launch a modernisation offensive in industry, which still accounts for 4/5 of european exports and 80% of private sector investment in r & d. it is important to invest in innovation and skills and to abandon the old style of industrial policy based on subsidies for enterprises, state ownership and customs protection. one of the most striking shortcomings of european industrial policy is the lack of investment in research and human capital, which is significantly slowing down the shift towards an innovation-based economy. efficient use of resources could lead to cost savings of 20 to 30%. europe cannot compete with emerging economies on wages, it must focus on reducing its energy and resource costs through their efficient use. member states must catch up with innovation leaders like germany, france or denmark. europe must prepare for new challenges and changing market dynamics.
in writing − the current rules governing the immunity of members do not reflect the relevant case law of the court of justice of the eu. like continental legal systems, european union legislation recognises the substantive and procedural nature of parliamentary immunity. the substantive nature of the matter can be understood as meaning that no liability can be attributed to an elected member for any acts which he has committed as a member of the legislative body during the term of office. the procedural nature, on the other hand, suggests that it is only with the consent of the legislature that an elected member can be prosecuted for acts committed outside his office. the court of justice of the european union dealt with the immunity of members in the marra, patricello and gollnisch cases. in the light of the case-law of the court of justice of the european union and the opinion of the committee responsible, it is necessary to recast the relevant provisions in order to make their structure more coherent and their content in line with the latest case-law and practice of the committee responsible.
i supported the motion for a resolution because i am convinced that the free movement of persons as a fundamental principle of the functioning of the european union is beyond question. the fears of mass migration of workers from romania and bulgaria, for whom the labour market opened on 1 january this year, are, i think, unfounded and unnecessary. member states may not discriminate against mobile workers in the european union by wrongly linking the right to free movement for work purposes to alleged abuse of social security systems. in a year when we want to call on the citizens of the european union to elect their representatives to the european parliament, we must emphasise more than ever the very benefits of the european union's functioning, which undoubtedly include the free movement of persons, goods and services.
europe as a community of states and citizens will only exist as long as there is a consensus on fundamental freedoms. there is no compromise. the so-called social tourism is the result of a combination of the inability to apply existing rules and frustration with the high costs to social systems in times of economic crisis. the commission has prepared a series of practical guides for authorities in the member states on how to apply european legislation to combat abuse of social benefits. this is a clear signal that the problems that arise are not related to free movement itself but to the application of existing regulations in practice.
in writing − if you have twenty years ago, the maastricht treaty extended the right of free movement to all eu citizens, regardless of whether they are economically active. for 56% of european citizens, free movement is the eu's most positive achievement. more and more europeans are taking advantage of this right and living in another member state: at the end of 2012, up to 14.1 million citizens were living in a member state other than their own. the european commission is committed to ensuring that european union citizens can enforce their right to work and live in any country of the european union in practice. member states and the european union must join forces to ensure that free movement rules continue to bring the greatest possible benefits to citizens and our economy. the european commission is aware that the sudden arrival of large numbers of people from other countries in a geographical area can cause problems in that location. such a situation may, for example, place undue burdens on education and housing or infrastructure. as from 1 january 2014, temporary restrictions on the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers will be lifted. however, in some member states the possibility of extending these restrictions is being discussed. the uk, germany, the netherlands and austria want to be able to expel citizens of other eu member states who abuse the right of free movement of persons in the community for social tourism.
in writing − the free movement of workers within the eu's internal market is one of the union's fundamental achievements, enabling citizens to work or reside freely in another member state. however, respect for the fundamental right of free residence implies effective equal treatment of workers from another member state with their own nationals in the fields of employment, social security and taxation. in particular, in the field of social security, many employees feel that there is a lack of coordination, which naturally creates a certain barrier to labour mobility. the right to free movement is enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the eu and further regulated in secondary legislation, with a wealth of case law, yet discrimination persists. i therefore join the call to the member states to incorporate the right to free movement more fully into their legislation and to create a favourable environment for its application in everyday life.
after 2013, the european year of citizens, it is hard to hear that an increasing number of member states are selling citizenship to third-country nationals who are said to be bringing or will bring investments to the member state concerned. i believe that trading and profiting from citizenship is dishonorable and tramples on all european treaties. moving around europe is a privilege that is part of the fundamental freedoms that european countries have been working towards for decades. as we will explain in this context to citizens of romania and bulgaria who have met the schengen criteria and are now at home, others can buy citizenship and also benefit from the benefits of schengen. the commission must therefore assess all citizenship systems in the light of european values and european union law and take effective measures to protect this european privilege. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing any person who has the nationality of a member state of the european union is automatically also a citizen of the european union. citizenship of the european union complements and does not replace nationality. each member state shall determine the conditions for acquiring and withdrawing its nationality. malta's plan to start selling european union passports for €650,000 has raised security concerns among member states. but this is not the first country to come up with such an idea. in times of economic crisis, several member states are trying to attract wealthy people from abroad through various investment schemes. in the last two years, several european countries, such as greece, portugal and cyprus, have introduced programmes to attract investors to real estate and construction. russians and chinese make up the majority of investors.
in writing. − some eu member states have introduced schemes that allow eu citizenship to be sold to third-country nationals. this possibility offered by the member states requires careful examination in the light of union values. the malta case may seem unique in terms of the emergence of eu citizenship, but surveys conducted in the context of the eu citizenship year 2013 show otherwise. acquiring or losing the citizenship of an eu member state is not a new issue, and we have already encountered a number of situations in which the rights of eu citizens have been violated. the eu treaties do not allow for discrimination on grounds of nationality within the eu. all eu citizens, therefore, enjoy the same rights as citizens of the union. that's the essence of cooperation and mutual trust. i think it's important to say that although the issue of citizenship is a matter of member state jurisdiction, as we see it now in the case of malta, it is closely linked to eu law, to eu citizenship. it should therefore be emphasised in each such case that member states should respect the union legal order when acting in such a capacity. i therefore supported the report and the call on the european commission to examine the rules of the member states on citizenship in the light of european values and the rule of law.
written − the progress report on serbia is part of the enlargement package adopted by the european commission on 16 october 2013. the year 2013 can be considered as a historic year for the development of relations between the european union and serbia. accession negotiations were opened on 28 june and the stabilisation and association agreement entered into force on 1 september. the european commission has concluded that serbia fulfils the necessary political criteria for the opening of the negotiations in question. the european commission has contributed to this finding by continuing to standardise relations between serbia and kosovo, including the implementation of agreements concluded so far. serbia will have to undertake far-reaching political and economic reforms in the coming years, and also focus on aligning its national legislation with that of the eu. the independence of key institutions should be improved, with particular regard to the judiciary. the effective implementation of strategies and action plans in the field of justice and the fight against corruption is testing serbia's readiness and willingness to move forward, including the prospect of a comprehensive reform of the public administration. political support for independent institutions and bodies that serve to protect vulnerable groups is also expected to increase. the country is continuing the process of aligning national and european legislation on the basis of an updated national plan for the adoption of the acquis.
in writing − this is the third resolution on iceland's progress since the opening of accession negotiations for that country four years ago. on 27 july 2010, accession negotiations with iceland were opened. there are currently 27 negotiating chapters open, of which 11 are provisionally closed. the newly elected icelandic government has temporarily suspended the accession process in order to discuss developments in the european union and postponed them until after the national referendum on accession has been held. iceland has all the capacities to assume the obligations that would result from membership, in particular through its membership of the european economic area. the european commission appreciates the transparent and inclusive conduct of the negotiations and welcomes the prospect of a country with a well-functioning economy, democratic tradition and civil society becoming a new member state.
written − south sudan became an independent country on 9 july 2011 and is striving to establish a prosperous and functioning state. however, the country is in a turbulent period as the president has dissolved the supreme bodies of the sudan people's liberation army. the situation escalated in late december 2013 when clashes broke out between the presidential guard and the forces of vice president riek machar. the fighting is spreading to several regions. un investigators have discovered a mass grave in the rebel-held city of bentiu. in south sudan, ethnic violence is escalating and a state of emergency was declared in two states in early january 2014. some 200,000 people have been forced to flee south sudan and hundreds of thousands more have been indirectly affected by the fighting. the un is currently strengthening its presence in south sudan and doubling the number of armed forces present. the european union has committed eur 170 million in humanitarian aid for 2013 and 2014. ongoing fighting over vast oil reserves has left hundreds dead and wounded and displaced more than three thousand people. the situation in south sudan is significantly destabilising the entire region and constitutes a threat to international peace.
i supported the motion for a resolution on a european union strategy on homelessness because i consider homelessness to be an extreme and the worst manifestation of poverty and social exclusion. in the advanced europe of the 21st century, we must be able to find appropriate ways, from prevention, counselling and social housing to affordable housing for the most disadvantaged people who cannot afford their own homes. to this end, member states have the possibility to use the european fund for the most deprived persons, as well as the european social fund, to improve the situation of homeless people and to pave the way for their social inclusion and gradual integration into the labour market. we must all recognise that eradicating poverty is in the interest of the european union as a whole. therefore, all sectors of society must be involved in this process and the public and private sectors must also be given the space.
in writing − homelessness affects people in all member states of the european union. the eu 2020 strategy has set the objective of rescuing at least 20 million people from the threat of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. the committee of the regions has presented a social housing programme which focuses on financial and social housing, the use of structural funds and the use of energy efficiency. member states have committed themselves to take all necessary steps to eliminate street homelessness by 2015. in the future, it is essential to establish a high-level working group to deal with the issue of homelessness. it is necessary to condemn any criminalisation of homeless people and to create a comprehensive database on homelessness in europe. the european union strategy on homelessness should be fully in line with the treaty of lisbon, which establishes a fundamental role and broad discretion for national, regional and local authorities in the provision, procurement and organisation of services of general economic interest which best meet the needs of users. it is for the member states to lay down the conditions for affordable and social housing. the european union strategy on homelessness should be fully consistent with the social housing policy of the member states, which fully embodies the principle of promoting social diversity and combating social segregation.
in writing − homelessness is a serious social problem closely linked to many types of human rights violations, in particular the right to human dignity and the right to health. homelessness often prevents access to employment, further exacerbating extreme poverty and social exclusion of homeless people. the problem of homelessness deserves a comprehensive policy solution at the level of local and regional authorities, the member states and the union should, of course, contribute its political and legal coverage to a coordinated approach throughout the eu. finally, i would like to commend the activities carried out by the union to combat social exclusion through european funds. for these reasons, i welcome the report on the eu strategy on homelessness.
in writing − homelessness affects people in all member states of the european union. in the 21st century, it represents an unacceptable violation of human dignity and one of the worst forms of poverty and deprivation. the european union has set itself the objective of rescuing at least 20 million citizens from the threat of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. member states have committed themselves to do everything possible to eliminate homelessness by 2015. in the future, it is essential to set up a high-level working group to deal with this issue. i condemn any criminalization of the homeless, and i also consider it necessary to create a database on homelessness in europe. such deplorable criminalization has recently occurred in hungary. changes in the hungarian constitution have made it possible to enforce a law allowing the prosecution of people 'living in public places'. i consider it a very unfortunate step when an eu member state targets homeless people, a particularly vulnerable group facing a very high risk of social exclusion, because it goes against human dignity and it also goes against the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. as a member of the european parliament, i therefore feel it necessary to remind those who make such legislation to respect international and european human rights agreements, both at national and local level. i regret that the observations on the facts mentioned were not adopted in plenary, and i therefore abstained.
for the efd group with the tax money of our citizens, we support the democratization processes in many countries of the world. we should therefore make it clear to the political leaders in these countries that the objective for which the citizens of the european union have chosen to help their country is to establish a civilised democratic administration of the country, in which the citizens have the final say, and not the security forces or the self-styled political leaders. the crackdown on a peaceful demonstration by textile workers, in which the demonstrators were shot by security forces, is a serious failure of the state administration that cannot be excused in any way. likewise, the intimidation of opposition leaders, the manipulation of election results are problems that cannot be tolerated in any country. we should therefore use our economic and political influence to reverse this political tension and improve the working conditions of the workers producing products which also reach our european market. i am convinced that our external action service can contribute to improving and mitigating these conflicts through increased diplomatic activities and communication with the economic and political leaders of the region.
i join my colleagues in supporting the efforts of activists in cambodia and laos. their work in both countries is of immense importance, as they represent the citizens and are part of society. that is why they deserve our constant attention. if their work is impeded by attacks by armed groups or kidnappings, the european parliament must draw attention to this and condemn it strongly. in cambodia, violent clashes have resulted in the deaths of several peaceful protesters. this is simply unacceptable. the july 2013 elections were peaceful, but i appeal to political leaders to address the shortcomings in the conduct of the elections. i also join the call for an immediate investigation into the disappearance of sombath somphon, whose whereabouts are still unknown, and to investigate this matter.
for the efd group the continuing open conflicts between the main political forces in the country are leading to an escalation of tensions and the disintegration of the still fragile political structures. the fact that the bangladesh national party boycotted the january elections due to the ongoing violence and the very low voter turnout combined to make the electoral victory of the ruling awami league party unrepresentative. it is therefore necessary, even after the failure of the un commission mission, to continue diplomatic activities in order to create the conditions for the launch of a substantive dialogue between the main political forces in order to avoid further escalation of tensions. the sensible way out of the situation may be to form a government of experts or to calmly repeat the badly politically managed last elections. but we must start by stopping the repression of political opponents and stopping the death penalty.
the critical situation in bangladesh is the result of several problems that the country has been struggling with for a long time. first of all, i want to strongly condemn the violence that accompanied the elections in early january this year. the government should be called upon to clearly define the sphere of action of the armed forces. the government must respect its international obligations. elections accompanied by violence and attacks on minorities and women and children are unacceptable. the government must also ensure an independent investigation into the deaths of 18 people who lost their lives in clashes with the police. i further appeal to political leaders to try to find a compromise with the opposition forces. bangladesh must not slacken in its democratic efforts, at least not efforts. the reconciliation, the participation of all the political forces in the country is the first prerequisite for a functioning democracy. for the first time since '91 the opposition has no representation in parliament. this parliamentary composition is problematic because it does not reflect the real choice of the bangladeshi opposition. we therefore call on the government to resume dialogue with... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague rapkay for his cooperation in the work of the parliament. i'd like to start with an example. in order for eu citizens from two different member states to marry, they need to present certain official documents at the place of the marriage. such is the case with a birth certificate, which is accepted by the authorities of another state only in its own official language and with an apostille. this means that eu citizens can expect at least one translation and apostille cost. and i could go on and on. we're used to these circumstantial procedures, we take them for granted. however, communication between member states' authorities could be simplified to save considerable time and money. in this context, i welcome the commission's idea of simplifying the acceptance of public documents within the eu, which is intended to facilitate the free movement of citizens and businesses. i believe that parliament's work has adequately complemented this original proposal. as a shadow rapporteur, i considered it important to strike a balance between further facilitating the free movement of eu citizens within the framework of the regulation and legal certainty and mutual trust between member states. i feel that we have achieved this and that the report is balanced in this respect. eu cooperation is steadily strengthening. therefore, cooperation between the authorities of the member states on the basis of mutual trust in the adoption of notified public documents is also desirable at this level. thanks to the multilingual forms in the regulation, among others the above example will soon be a thing of the past. i hope that, once the regulation is adopted as soon as possible, the commission will also look at the inclusion of names in public documents in the appropriate minority language. the single system would reduce fraud rather than increase it, and that is also an important aspect, so i would certainly recommend that we support it.
for the efd group. first of all, i would like to commend the commission's efforts to introduce multilingual forms for the most frequently reported facts in citizens' contacts with the authorities. such forms, which are recognised throughout the union, can help our citizens to declare their name, origin, marital status, residence, nationality, etc. in other union countries without any additional translation and verification. of course, we must be careful when introducing multilingual forms and we will need to find effective mechanisms to review them in the event of suspected falsification. the templates proposed in the annexes seem to me to be rather opaque. it might be worthwhile to put all the language mutations directly in the box where the entry is made. i would also suggest that we test the use of such forms directly in the european parliament. in principle, forms are available in english or french at the workplace where visits are accepted. a regular visitor coming from different countries of the union is not required to know other languages and would certainly appreciate if the information on the form in which he is to enter his data was also in his mother tongue. the union has 24 official languages, which should be equal, and it is the european institutions that should be the model for the correct application of multilingualism. unfortunately, the european parliament is the most visible example of the violation of language equality in the european union. i will give you an example of the work of some committees. for example, the petitions committee often discusses topics of interest to citizens from many countries around the world. however, interpretation for internet broadcasts of these committees' proceedings is only provided in 12 languages. most eu countries therefore do not have a secure translation of negotiations for example on human rights violations or violations of other economic activities. for example, a petition was discussed on the cyanide gold mining method in romania, where citizens from my country wanted to know what the defence mechanisms are from the point of view of the citizens against the use of this cyanide in real mining, and they could not learn from the petition committee meeting what to do because the translation into slovak was not available. similar problems can be seen in several countries of the union. multilingualism must therefore be respected and fulfilled in the institutions of the european union.
the joint debate will assess how the eu institutions and member states are delivering on eu legislation and its implementation. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission has the data that summarises the infringements of eu law by member states, but unfortunately - and this report highlights this - not every case of infringement of eu law is known to the commission. it does not have sufficient means to detect them, so the commission's data do not give an accurate picture of the actual shortcomings. that is why i consider the role of parliament to be important in detecting cases of infringement and in fighting for the correct application of eu law. we, the representatives, deal with a lot of different kinds of complaints, requests. one example is the work of the committee on petitions. the volume of petitions shows that member states are not transposing or applying eu law properly. improving the quality of legislation can also have a positive impact on the application of the law. i agree that the crisis-hit member states, and their authorities, are in a difficult situation. the same applies to their citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. we cannot burden them with more complex and costly legislation, and therefore the legislator has a great responsibility in the eu. only legislation that is simple and easy to apply and therefore effective should be proposed. the dumping of meaningless legislation is creating a negative feeling among eu citizens and that is not our aim, but a better, more understandable and functioning europe. by improving the conditions and means, we will contribute to enhancing the democratic legitimacy of the eu and, in my view, save considerable funds.
last week, i had the honour of leading a delegation of young european leaders to russia. we have had several meetings in the past with our colleagues from the russian federation. i can tell you it wasn't quite the cold weather that was in moscow, but i really felt that our relations were starting to cool off in a way. i think that as the european union we should realize that we cannot orient our policy only towards the west and consider the united states as our great model, but we must realize that we have a closer neighbour, which is the russian federation, which will always be our neighbour and from which the sea does not separate us. we must therefore try to improve these relations with the russian federation. perhaps it is very good to see this in the conflict that is going on in ukraine today. it's a meeting of our positions that we would like to defend in this policy, but our common solution should really be a common solution that would also bring good to ukraine. i think that young people both in the european union and in russia see their common future as a positive thing and want to work on it. they want it to be good. so we as politicians really should try to understand each other and understand that we really should be good neighbors for a better future for all of us.
my colleagues may recall the politically motivated amendment to the law banning dual citizenship in slovakia, which was swiftly adopted in 2010. this amendment caused unpleasant administrative experience for dozens of slovak citizens, not to mention the ongoing harassment by the authorities. according to the slovak constitution, no one may be deprived of his citizenship against his will. the case was heard by the constitutional court in recent days, with a decision date set for february 26. the issue is being followed with great interest by the public, which is why we were shocked to hear the news the other day that the constitutional court had postponed its decision on dual citizenship indefinitely. it's an election year in slovakia. there is no question that we are witnessing a political game and we are also citizens who are being harassed. it would be good if the constitutional court would finally uphold the civil rights guaranteed by the slovak constitution.
mrs lunacek's report, as she said a moment ago, is dividing public opinion in the member states and i think that the vote tomorrow will show that it is dividing this parliament too. i will vote tomorrow for amendment no 1 for an alternative resolution. that's what my constituents want. i will vote for the doctrine of the fundamental rights of the european union. i support the european commission, the european parliament and the member states working within their respective competences towards the full enjoyment of all fundamental rights for all citizens of the european union. i will support the promotion of fundamental rights and ensure a balance between the right to equal opportunities and other fundamental rights.
our society is built on the values of respect and human dignity. the values of freedom, democracy, equality and respect for fundamental rights. the citizens of my country share these values and peacefully develop a community based on the natural family. they live and work in mutual respect, respect for the social order and respect for freedom and democratic achievements. they're proud of their roots and traditions. they feel no need to oppress or discriminate against anyone. they're not homophobic. therefore, i am convinced, dear mrs. lunacek, that my country is not affected by your behavior. it's redundant.
in writing the quality and efficiency of the judicial system are important factors in the creation of a modern democratic society. national justice systems play an important role in restoring confidence and returning to growth. i therefore welcome the ec's comparative overview, which notes improvements in all the areas of national justice systems mentioned. i consider it very important to ensure that disputes are resolved within a reasonable time in the future, as delays in proceedings are a serious problem for the citizens of the member states and they consequently lose confidence in the functioning of the judicial system and legal certainty. it should also be borne in mind that the more efficient the judicial system, the more attractive the member states are to foreign investors, which is a significant factor in times of social and financial crisis. every citizen of the european union must have easy access to an efficient, timely and independent judicial system. i consider that the comparative overview in question is a very valuable tool for identifying the difficulties faced by the member states. the court of justice has also been called upon to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the european convention on human rights, which was adopted by the council on 25 june 2005. i believe that this survey is a success and will be continued in the future, taking into account the equal treatment of member states, but also the objectivity and comparability of data.
intelligent energy systems bring opportunities for the regions. in particular, for the marginal and disadvantaged to not only reduce their energy costs but also to become producers and exporters of energy. i therefore fully support the decentralised implementation of energy strategies with active support from the structural funds and full use of public-private partnerships. local innovation takes account of local ecological and economic specificities, brings jobs to the region and increases its competitiveness. however, the challenges remain in storage, distribution, interoperability of technologies and existing networks, and exchanges with neighbouring countries. member states should take account of the benefits of such cross-border cooperation, in particular by aligning existing legislation in a favourable way, thereby facilitating access for their regions to mutually beneficial energy partnerships.
the proposal for a directive on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation is intended to improve the mechanisms of directive 2003/6/ec on market abuse, as recommended by the financial supervisory panel. the european commission's analyses have shown that the sanction mechanisms of this directive are ineffective. it is shown that the criminal liability of legal persons for market abuse must be part of the sanctioning systems of all member states. given that the definition of criminal offences, insider dealing and market manipulation differs between member states, it would be appropriate to find a common definition of both administrative and criminal offences so that market participants know in advance clearly which actions they are liable to be criminally liable for. it would also be good, given the diversity of current national systems, to set at least a lower limit on the maximum penalty, so that perpetrators of these offences do not escape punishment by seeking a more appropriate court for their responsibility. the millions of dollars in losses we are incurring from speculative derivatives trading must be stopped as quickly as possible.
in writing, the european union is committed to respecting and improving the kimberley process. this is a process designed to prevent the inflow of controversial diamonds rough diamonds used by rebel movements to finance wars against legitimate governments. diversification of the economy and a focus on increasing mineral extraction are important for greenland. the european commission wants to achieve greenland's participation in the kimberley process by establishing a special regime for the movement of rough diamonds between the european union and greenland and adopting a set of amendments to make the territory of greenland and the territory of the european union considered as one entity without internal borders. the accession of greenland as an overseas country will make it possible to improve the efficiency of the already successful process of combating the disputed diamonds.
in writing - the single area for payments in euro, which does not distinguish between cross-border and national payments in euro, was to be implemented by 1 february 2014. the main objective of the regulation is to move from national credit and debit schemes to harmonised systems. the european commission and the european central bank have closely monitored the sepa transition. despite the considerable efforts of member states and the ecb, it is highly unlikely that all market participants will be able to meet the requirements on 1 february 2014. the priority is to avoid disruption of payments resulting from the fact that the full sepa switchover would not take place by 1 february 2014. payment service providers will be allowed to process euro payment transactions in formats other than those of the harmonised systems until 1 august 2014.
in writing - each year, some 24 000 people die in the fishing sector. the 2012 cape town agreement should allow for the implementation of the 1977 torremolinos international convention for the safety of fishing vessels, signed in 1977, and its 1993 protocol, which never entered into force due to the lack of ratification by a sufficient number of states. this convention lays down safety standards, but also specific requirements for marine fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and above. the cape town agreement should contribute to the safety of fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and above, but also create the conditions to address the problem of fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length, which make up the majority of fishing vessels.
i did not support the resolution for a very simple reason. the principle of subsidiarity is being less and less respected by this parliamentary assembly. the european parliament questions its recognition, even when it is about the application of community law. it's obvious, and i'm sorry. i have no doubt that the application of eu law is important, but this resolution stresses above all that our member states are not entitled to legislate without community law. this will be another signal for the european parliament elections. i propose to set up training seminars to better understand eu decision-making in favour of national parliaments so that the principle of subsidiarity is fully implemented.
the credibility of the european union is directly proportional to the credibility of the application of its law in the member states and by all its institutions and bodies. compliance with the law contributes to legal certainty for citizens and businesses and creates a favourable environment for the development of individual rights and prosperity in the internal market. as the democratically elected institution closest to the citizen, the european parliament must be concerned that the law it adopts is actually applied in practice. there is no real point in passing laws on paper, producing regulations just to create the appearance of a procedure. citizens deserve a more efficient, functioning legal system without unnecessary obstacles, complications and delays. the european parliament must therefore be informed of the shortcomings so that appropriate measures can be readily incorporated into the legislation being prepared, and i also stress the absolutely enduring and imperative principle of subsidiarity and its respect where necessary.
in writing - what ? compliance with european union law should be a priority, to be implemented in close cooperation with parliament. the european parliament must monitor the political accountability of the european commission and improve its legislative work. the european parliament must exercise its powers of scrutiny more fully. a major problem is the marked increase in cases of late transpositions by member states, which rose by up to 60% compared with the previous year. petitions submitted by citizens point to fundamental breaches of european union law, in particular in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights. the eu pilot platform, which serves as a forum for discussion between the european commission and the member state concerned, does not have legal personality and sufficient legal status. the european parliament must in future be given access to the database containing all complaints in order to strengthen its powers of control.
in writing - one of the fundamental pillars of the european union is the free movement of persons. simplifying the movement of european union citizens by removing various administrative barriers and increasing the chance of better employment in a foreign member state is a priority for the european commission. studies show that 12 million european union citizens live in another member state for study or work. it is much more difficult for these people to cope with the administrative burden of local government in the form of a certified translation or an apostille. the european commission is also considering abolishing the certified copy, which is currently considered a formality because it is quite time-consuming and costly. legal certainty is losing its relevance as a result of modern technologies and a certified copy no longer represents absolute protection against the risk of falsification of documents. the verification of copies may also be replaced by other procedures in case of doubt, such as the possibility for the office to request the production of the original or to apply to the mutual assistance institute. simplifying the receipt of authentic instruments significantly reduces red tape and charges for citizens.
in writing - today, more than 14 million eu citizens live in another member state, and the right to move and reside freely within the eu is therefore one of the most cherished by europeans. there are many reasons why eu citizens move between member states, but the most common reason is for work reasons, which bring benefits not only to individual citizens but also to the economies of the member states. unfortunately, it is quite common to hear individuals and business representatives point to the overly complex framework of public documents in the eu, the lengthy and unclear administrative procedures that stand in the way of exercising their rights of free movement and the possibility of taking up employment opportunities in other member states. i supported this latest report because i think it contains measures that could be a tool to remove these obstacles and could be a sufficient signal to citizens and businesses that the eu is really working to put citizens at the centre of european policies. i believe that this report is a step in the right direction, so that we no longer have to say that despite high unemployment, some 2 million jobs remain unfilled in the eu.
written - european union citizens enjoy a high standard of health protection and are adequately informed about the classification and labelling of chemicals. in order to ensure the protection and safety of workers, it is necessary to align regulation (ec) no 1282/2008 of the european parliament and of the council with the ghs. this system was developed by the un to identify hazardous chemicals and inform users of the associated risks through symbols and labelling of packaging. the adoption of that regulation automatically implies the need to make technical adaptations to the relevant directives, which contain references to the european union legislation on the classification and labelling of chemicals.
in writing - the european commission has been interested in the harmonisation of collective rights management since 1995. the european parliament repeatedly requested the adoption of a draft binding legal instrument in this area between 2004 and 2008. the current legal framework lags behind the dynamic digital society. creating a level playing field for governments by introducing governance and transparency standards that apply to all companies will facilitate access to online music. reform of collective rights management is the most effective way to improve and benefit rights holders.
in writing - since 2003, the european union has been working to establish a comprehensive framework to tackle insider dealing and market manipulation. the european commission is making use for the first time of new powers in this area, which allow it to adapt to the objective of effective implementation of harmonisation measures in criminal law. the sanctions applied in the past have proven insufficient in the fight against market abuse offences. harmonisation of the lower limit of the minimum sentence should be sufficiently dissuasive. large-scale criminals often seek the most favourable court of jurisdiction in the member state where the definition of the offence of insider dealing is associated with the lowest sanction. it is the level and form of sanctions that have the most serious impact on deterring potential offenders from committing a crime.
in writing - what ? an effectively functioning financial market relies on the trust of investors, businesses and the public and therefore requires a high degree of integrity. financial markets have become a normal part of everyday economic life and are now closely linked to the sound functioning of national economies. economic growth or far-reaching economic difficulties depend on them if these markets are manipulated or abused. the experience of recent years has clearly shown that the professional ethics of financial market participants cannot be relied upon alone. billions of dollars in damages caused by the state, businesses and the public are reason enough for the strictest legal regulation. i am convinced that establishing the factual basis for market manipulation offences and thus criminalising the perpetrators is the only effective way to combat such harmful conduct effectively. even high administrative fines are not enough for white-collar offenders. they shall be subject only to a criminal sanction, whether preventive or punitive, in the form of a custodial sentence.
in writing - the original regulation was annulled following a call by the european parliament, as the court concluded that the regulation in question had been adopted by consultation and not by co-decision. the new proposal is almost identical to the previous one, but contains the necessary adjustments to reflect the new legislative process and incorporates the european parliament's proposals from the 2010 consultation procedure. however, the new regulation maintained the obligation for member states to report data and information on investment projects relating to the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas and electricity every two years. the collection of information and data is of great importance to the european commission in the compilation of inter-sectoral analysis and in the performance of its energy tasks. this regulation, together with the connecting europe facility, aims to complete the internal energy market.
in writing. - the new regulation is the same as the one that was annulled, but with some amendments that were necessary in any event as a result of the new legislative process. i voted in favour of the report to implement these amendments. member states shall communicate to the commission every two years data and information on investment projects relating to the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas and electricity. the aim is to ensure that the commission receives accurate and regular information on investment projects in the european union that affect energy infrastructure in order to fulfil its energy tasks. the commission shall, every two years, carry out a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural evolution and prospects of the union's energy system. this will allow the identification of future supply and demand gaps and obstacles to investment. this will increase the transparency of expected demand and available supply. other important amendments to the draft report include the extension of the scope of the regulation to coal, the reporting of infrastructure investments in third countries that have an impact on the energy policy of the union, the imposition of reporting obligations on capacities for import and export of compressed natural gas and liquefied natural gas, the reduction of the threshold for data reporting for onshore wind capacity, the extension of the reporting obligation to capacities related to electricity storage facilities. it is hoped that the new regulation will improve the processes for the above information and analysis.
i respect my british colleague, sayyad karim, and i supported his report. i agree that the european union gains nothing if the legislative burden is too great. a less restrictive europe should be the motto for economic recovery. in slovakia, as elsewhere, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially family businesses, are the engine of the economy. it is hardly acceptable to me to curb business enthusiasm with excessive eu regulation. finally, the principle of subsidiarity must also apply where this principle necessarily leads to a decline in the importance of the european institutions compared with national institutions, which are much closer to the citizen. better regulation is less regulation, and that is why i welcome this report.
the european institutions have a legal obligation to make regulations only in accordance with the treaties and the fundamental principles of european union law, while ensuring that they are proportionate, clear and do not create an unnecessary administrative burden for citizens and businesses. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the development of legislation aim to ensure that decisions are taken as closely as possible to the citizen, thus avoiding a centralised management from brussels that is undemocratic, grossly ignores national or regional specificities, or imposes disproportionate and unwelcome obligations. unfortunately, the commission does not sufficiently address such a requirement in its impact assessment. i therefore support the proposal to establish appropriate criteria for evaluation, respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and i consider it very desirable to remind the legislator himself, and thus the european parliament and its committees, of this.
in writing - what ? in order to reduce regulatory and administrative burdens in the european union and the member states, it is necessary to take account of the new legislative environment. the renegotiation of the interinstitutional agreement should lead to an agreement which should be binding and in accordance with article 295 tfeu, which was introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the european union is facing a decline in the level of democracy and therefore a broad debate on the development of the powers of national parliaments must take place. the institution of a stronger red card, which was initiated by only a few national parliaments not on the basis of subsidiarity but of absolute control, is tailored to the conservative governments in europe and is not a step in the right direction. the conformity of european union legislation and the ten regulations of the european union represent progress in the better regulation agenda and take account of several previous requests from the european parliament in the past.
as i said in the debate on this report, i voted in favour of an alternative resolution which clearly interprets the doctrine of the european union and its member states. this doctrine guarantees respect for fundamental rights within its competences and ensures a balance between equal opportunities and respect for human rights. i also see a great danger in the report adopted, which introduces concepts of homophobia and sexual identity that are not defined in any internationally binding human rights instrument. these concepts are not part of european union law. the european parliament has legitimised the vocabulary of ideological activism through a political roadmap.
in writing - the actions taken by the european commission to ensure equality on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity are insufficient. neither european nor national legislation provides adequate protection to the lgbt community. transgender people face discrimination in the labour market, but also outside it. the lack of engagement of gender equality organisations in the member states creates fertile ground for the inclusion of the lgbt community in society. the poor equipment and the minimal information lead to the fact that the persons concerned do not trust in the positive handling of their complaints. member states shall ensure that gender equality organisations have the appropriate equipment and information necessary to deal with complaints from the citizens concerned. it is important to create a safe and free environment for all people, regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation. the strategic data indicate the need for a plan to combat homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual and gender identity.
in writing - the directive defines unfair commercial practices that are prohibited in the european union and integrates provisions from the directive on misleading advertising and the directive on distance contracts. the main objective of this directive is therefore to protect the economic interests of consumers when they enter into commercial transactions. the directive has a positive impact on consumers and traders entering into transactions within the internal market. the european commission must now monitor the application of the directive by the member states and, if the member states do not comply with their obligations and apply the directive correctly, it must act and apply appropriate sanctions. a bad practice can never bring profit and the penalties must always be greater than the possible profit. in the interest of legal certainty, consumers need quick, effective and inexpensive means of redress. consumers must assert their rights fully and without fear of appropriate compensation.
in writing - over the past decades, the eu has adopted many rules to protect consumers, setting the framework for fighting unfair trading practices. i believe that despite the clear obligation of member states to effectively implement the directive into national legislation, there are still many cases where citizens have become victims of unfair commercial practices through the incorrect introduction or application of key provisions. i am convinced that full harmonisation of the current unfair commercial practices directive is essential if we are to achieve the positive effects of a single set of rules in the internal market within the eu. i supported the report because it proposes to remove the barriers that prevent consumers from having easy, legal and affordable access to the products and services they want anywhere in the eu. i expect that, in the interests of consumer protection, the commission and the member states will ensure better and more effective information for businesses so as to maintain a high level of consumer protection.
i supported the report because improving the quality, independence and efficiency of judicial systems is a major public policy objective at both european and national level. national justice systems play a key role in restoring confidence and returning to growth. the annual growth survey has shown the need for a thorough assessment and systematic examination of the functioning of the judicial systems in all member states, while fully respecting the different national legal traditions. an effective and independent judiciary also contributes to trust and stability. predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are important components of an attractive business environment.
in writing - national justice systems play an important role in restoring confidence and returning to growth in some cases, in particular in civil, administrative and commercial law. the european commission's benchmark report notes improvements in all the areas mentioned in the national judicial systems. it is important to ensure that disputes are resolved within a reasonable timeframe. proceedings are delayed and this is a serious problem for the citizens of the member states, who consequently lose confidence in the functioning of the judicial system and legal certainty. the more efficient the judicial system, the more attractive the member states are to foreign investors. every citizen of the european union must have easy access to an efficient, timely and independent judicial system. the comparative overview is a very valuable tool for identifying the difficulties faced by the member states. the court of justice has also been called upon to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the european convention on human rights, which was adopted by the council on 25 june 2005. this survey is a success and will be continued in the future, taking into account the equal treatment of member states as well as the objectivity and comparability of data.
in writing - what ? in the context of the emerging crisis, i would like to emphasise that eu justice policy has undergone fundamental changes in recent times, and that this has also strengthened the foundations of a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice, serving above all european citizens. unfortunately, despite the positive progress made in the area of justice, i have to say that in some member states there are still problems with the duration of judicial proceedings and the organisation of the judiciary. i believe that these shortcomings cannot be a matter for the particular member state concerned but must become part of eu policy as a whole, as they can affect not only the functioning of the single market but also the whole eu legal system. i voted in favour of this current report because i believe that the eu justice scoreboard is the right step and can play a key role in restoring confidence, economic growth and job creation in this reform period. i also supported the report because i consider comparing and exchanging best practices in the implementation of provisions on an effective justice system to be a good non-binding tool that can not only help to identify problems but can also help member states and eu institutions to define better justice policies.
the resolution rightly emphasises that energy efficiency can open up new opportunities for smes, including family businesses. we can face the future with confidence if we know how to take advantage of the challenges we face, especially in the field of smart energy. the resolution also has a positive impact on local employment and encourages all regions and local institutions to consider the benefits and invest in smart energy systems. these systems are potential sources of green jobs. the impact on employment is particularly important in regions affected by the crisis.
in writing - what ? energy consumption and production vary across the different regions of the european union. there are opportunities for geographical and territorial transformation of the energy network for disadvantaged regions. these regions will in future move from being energy consumers to being producers. the member states concerned shall invest in smart local networks with the assistance of the european structural funds. this is a long and difficult process requiring a stable policy framework. the european commission's role is to ensure ambitious targets for 2030 in the field of energy efficiency and renewable sources. citizens of the regions must be involved in all phases of planning. at the same time, there is a chance to transform the poor districts on the periphery of the member states into regions symbolizing stable and secure energy supplies and symbolizing sustainability. communication between local authorities, businesses, industry and the local community and citizens will be needed to achieve this. joint planning and implementation efforts in a process involving all actors create synergies and deliver better long-term benefits for the regions, not only in terms of security and accessibility of energy production and supply, but also in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits.
in writing - over the last period, many european regions have managed to invest more than €5.5 billion in some 300 smart grid projects, offering opportunities for individual member states to boost innovation, research and development, create new jobs and improve the competitiveness of european industry at local and regional level. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the lack of energy infrastructure and the dependence of regions on existing networks oblige us to look for new opportunities for innovative digital technologies. i believe that the current rise in energy prices, climate change and socio-economic problems should also force eu member states to look for ways of providing a stable and secure energy supply that is of interest to the citizen not only in terms of its availability but also in terms of meeting the most stringent environmental protection criteria. i expect that the integration of smart grids into regional energy plans will enable citizens not only to participate actively in the energy planning of the networks, but also to benefit from the financial and social benefits.
i consider the report very important, and that's why i supported it. we must ensure that small business production is respected as the real creator of the common good. these are often small and medium-sized enterprises of the family type. the common agricultural policy cannot be oriented solely towards the profits of large-scale agricultural production. the balance must be maintained and the nearby farms must not be endangered. it is also thanks to small farms that children learn that milk does not grow in a bottle and spinach does not grow in a freezer. we also mediate nature through family farms, and i have the honour of protecting and promoting them.
written - small farms are exposed to a strong competitive environment in times of economic crisis and need help to increase competitiveness and performance. according to some statistics, small farms account for more than half of the agricultural holdings in the european union. in some of the new and southern member states, they are even in the overwhelming majority. the owners of these businesses are mostly old people who have trouble finding successors in running the farm. it is precisely in the context of the generational change that support should be given to these undertakings in order to enable the owners of agricultural undertakings to continue to operate in this sector until the end of their productive life. small farms in the future must develop by expanding their area and increasing production, distributing income resources more efficiently, increasing attractiveness for the next generations. the european union's cohesion policy, which calls for the financing of the necessary infrastructure in rural areas, plays an important role in addressing the problems of small farmers.
in writing. - the economic crisis has caused a lot of job losses, and the unemployment rate is rising. as a result, many choose to return to rural life, where people can work and earn a living within the agricultural sector. this also shows that small farms are an important and solid foundation for rural areas. farming families pass on knowledge from generation to generation, as well as job opportunities that can be a secure source of livelihood. these forms of farming have their own traditions and customs. the sale of products on local and regional markets provides consumers with direct access to low-cost and fresh products. small farms play a key role in the development of the countryside. however, their effective operation requires development, for which there is no adequate support. it makes it difficult for them to get financial support. this is for a number of reasons, but the main one is that large firms are the ones who have the most equity capital needed to benefit from eu programmes. i agree that member states should develop appropriate proposals for the development of small farms. direct payments under the cap support mechanism should be reviewed in order to improve the situation of small farmers, which could provide them with a more effective opportunity for development. i supported the report.
in writing - what ? i voted for this current report because it introduces new forms of support for small farmers (smes) and also because it introduces some of the simplifications introduced by the cap reform. as i consider agriculture to be an integral part of the eu's european economy, i expect the cap reform to continue in a way that makes the cap more competitive and flexible than in the past. i am fully aware that the kics do not have a stronger impact on the market, but i am nevertheless convinced that if we are to stop the continuing depopulation of the countryside and ensure its attractiveness, it is necessary to improve the so-called soft factors of the quality of life in the localities concerned by offering young families, for example, housing, education, leisure and culture, etc. having lived in the countryside for a long time and still returning to the countryside often, i have personal experience of how the countryside has changed in recent times. i can openly state that there has been a significant decline in agriculture, which was the main source of livelihood for many rural families, which has had and still has an impact on the quality of life of the rural citizen, especially in terms of unemployment, migration to work outside the region, mass abandonment of small livestock farming and the cultivation of specific local crops.
in writing - what ? fragmentation of media and significant shortcomings in safeguards for cross-border deliveries undermine consumer confidence in national and cross-border e-commerce. there are concerns that the internal market is not sufficiently developed for the needs of the current supply chain. a more appropriate supply system design should be able to address consumer information, protection and enforcement issues and create a level playing field for all retail operators in the european union. the economic importance of the internet economy is unquestionable. in 2012, the european union's e-commerce market grew by 20% to reach eur 250 billion. differences in delivery services between member states as well as between regions within a country are also an important factor, putting consumers living in less accessible and remote areas at a disadvantage. in order to improve conditions for consumers, it is essential that member states and the european commission ensure compliance with the postal services directive and the european union competition law and consumer rights directives.
in writing, the european coal and steel community was the birth of modern europe and one of the first steps on the road to european integration. the european steel industry is one of the building blocks for the automotive, construction, engineering and many other sectors. in the current period of global economic crisis, it is important to maintain a competitive steel industry, which is a guarantee of employment and economic growth. the steel industry today employs 350 000 people directly and several million in related sectors. to improve the current situation, it is necessary to reduce energy costs by supplying safe and sustainable energy, to reduce the environmental burden of the steel industry and to make high capital investments in the future, in particular in the upgrading of breakthrough technologies, which are however associated with significant risks and long-term returns.
in writing - the european steel industry is the world's second largest steel producer and directly employs some 350 000 workers. several million additional jobs are created by related sectors. the strategic importance of the steel industry lies in providing products for other sectors in which european companies are often world champions. i would remind you that even european energy and defence are directly dependent on the steel industry. the european union must take concrete steps to demonstrate its interest in maintaining european manufacturing, which remains key to european industry. in this context, i would highlight the fact that we have highly qualified and talented specialists and workers, given the long tradition of steelmaking in europe. this competitive advantage must not be lost by the lack of system solutions. i therefore fully support the use of european funds for research, development and skills development in the steel industry. the loss of high-quality expertise, know-how and competence is nothing but a path to the demise of the european steel industry. for the reasons i have given, i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing - what ? the first step towards european integration was the coordination of coal production through the establishment of the european coal and steel community. in addition to this historical role of steel, the european steel industry forms the basis of key industrial value chains such as the automotive, engineering or electrical industries. the steel industry in europe provides 350 000 direct jobs and several million jobs for workers in related sectors, unfortunately as a result of the crisis, unemployment in this sector has increased significantly. this negative trend has been accompanied by a loss of skills in the workforce, which will not be easy to restore. the role of social dialogue involving workers is therefore very important in securing the future of the european steel industry. as well as the need for the workforce to be involved in the restructuring and innovation of this important sector. any future trade agreements should include measures to improve export opportunities and make access to european steel and its products more efficient. balanced and sustainable trade in the steel sector must be based on respect for workers' rights and environmental protection standards.
in writing - the steel industry in europe is currently in a very difficult situation, as evidenced by the significant decrease in production activity in recent years and the consequent loss of more than 40 000 jobs. i voted in favour of this current report because i am convinced that it is good news that can help the steel industry to overcome its difficulties and increase its competitiveness on world markets. as a slovakian, where the largest steel producer is u.s. steel košice, which employs over 13,000 workers, i know the problems of the steel industry. last year, an american investor was threatening to leave slovakia and sell the company. i am pleased that the representatives of the government of the slovak republic and the representatives of u.s. steel signed a memorandum of understanding during this period to keep the company in kosice for at least 5 years. i consider this agreement to be of particular importance, particularly because u.s. steel has committed to maintaining employment and not to engage in mass layoffs. i also want to point out that this company is not only involved in the production of steel, but also supports public benefit projects in health, education, financially supports science, culture and also charity.
in writing one of the necessary prerequisites for the efficient implementation of the necessary investments in low-carbon technologies and solutions, new production capacities, smart transport networks and transmission systems is the stability of the 2030 climate and energy framework. as regards the overall framework, it should be sufficiently flexible to take account of new knowledge and economic developments. while ensuring the transition to a low-carbon economy, the proposals should not impose a disproportionate burden on national economies. i therefore support a binding target for greenhouse gas emissions of 35% earlier than in 1990. the ets should play a central role, but the free allocation scheme would have to continue in order to protect businesses exposed to international competition. the final ghg target for member states shall be set in a manner reflecting national conditions and different starting situations. the role of nuclear energy as one of the options for reducing co2 emissions should be strengthened, as the elimination of carbon emissions will depend on the different share of low-carbon technologies in each member state. new financial instruments and mechanisms should be established for the implementation of the 2030 climate and energy package.
air transport has become more accessible to all passengers in the liberalised european market. however, the quality of the services provided has declined significantly and some companies have even resorted to unfair commercial practices to the detriment of passengers. the current legislation does not provide effective protection and legal certainty for passengers. the rules are considered to be unclear and so-called loopholes allow airlines to avoid their obligations or liability. for example, i consider it unjustified and outrageous to refuse to carry a passenger on a part of the journey on a return ticket simply because he has not travelled on all the sections of the journey for which the ticket was duly purchased. i support strengthening passenger rights, in particular by introducing an obligation for airlines to provide clear and timely information on passenger rights where and within what time limits they need to be exercised. i also welcome the idea of introducing a standardised eu-wide complaint form that is understandable in all languages.
first of all, i'd like to thank my colleague moraes for his hard work, knowing that this is not an easy case. the proper application of the directive - which we hope to adopt today - particularly with regard to the principle of equal treatment of domestic workers, covering employment conditions, the right to strike, the right to collective bargaining, retroactive payments, counselling services, education and training, etc., can go a long way towards reducing undeclared work and improving the situation of migrant workers. it is clear that adequate controls can greatly improve and the lack of controls can undermine the effectiveness of the directive. the question arises whether the conditions for the free movement of labour do not provide less protection for eu citizens against third-country seasonal workers within the framework of the single labour market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the free movement of workers in the european union is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women, and the directive on equal treatment for women and men is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the relatively clear obligation to provide seasonal workers with adequate accommodation should also be emphasised. those provisions may also affect the situation of union citizens who are not covered by such protection. this directive will obviously have a lot of positive effects and will hopefully reduce illegal immigration, including the spread of trafficking in human beings.
undocumented migrant women are a real problem here in the european parliament too. we saw that in the voting. we really want to help these women. but the primary responsibility lies with the member states. they must take a clear stand against trafficking in human beings for the purposes of forced prostitution and forced labour. i must say that i am particularly pleased that the report mentions a problem which i have been raising in this parliament for nine years. it is the invisible work of a woman for her family and for the common good. let me quote a paragraph that i consider very important:the european parliament recommends that member states look for ways to recognise the value of the work done by women who, despite their irregular status, provide valuable services and contribute to the functioning of the host country.
in writing - many illegal immigrants who are in the european union illegally find themselves in a legal vacuum and cannot access basic services because they risk subsequent deportation. they also have difficulty getting basic health care or housing because they could be reported to the relevant immigration authorities. the situation of illegal immigrant women is even more serious, as they face double discrimination on grounds of gender and legal status. women are much more vulnerable to physical and sexual abuse and have difficulty accessing gender-specific healthcare. member states are challenged to recognise women illegal migrants as an explicitly vulnerable group exposed to trafficking in human beings, discrimination and exploitation in the labour market. member states are about to ratify the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families. migrants are held in detention centres in degrading conditions where they may suffer psychological trauma. in addition, irregular migrants are often subject to sexual and physical abuse.
in writing - what ? the first instrument to combat migration will target low-skilled and low-paid workers. the new directive is necessary because a large number of seasonal workers in the european union work in substandard conditions and are subject to discrimination by employers. a legal migration framework can bring positive results and limit illegal immigration and improve the labour market position of migrants. in the near future, an accelerated procedure for the recruitment of seasonal workers will be introduced, the situation of third-country nationals on the labour market will be improved and the awareness of seasonal workers will be improved so that they do not become victims of exploitation. the european commission's proposal sets a maximum length of stay for a seasonal worker at 6 months, a longer period could lead to abuse of the social system of the selected member state. the strengthening of sanctions against employers in the form of compensation for non-compliance is one of the new instruments for the protection of seasonal workers. the proposal also includes provisions on adequate accommodation, payment of reasonable costs or the introduction of checks to verify that employers are fulfilling their obligations towards seasonal workers.
in writing - the influx of seasonal workers from third countries is a common phenomenon for most member states of the european union. despite high unemployment in many member states, we still have a large number of jobs, sometimes in entire sectors, that european citizens are not interested in. a harmonised framework for managing such migration at eu level could therefore really bring added value. women, for example, are a particularly vulnerable group in this case, as they are the most frequent victims of exploitation or abuse. human trafficking, known as the white meat trade, is infamously the result of various types of abuse. enabling legal ways of migration can play an important role in curbing illegal immigration or the exploitation that often accompanies it. a framework for migration management at european level would be, inter alia, the first such instrument since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. i therefore consider it very important that we succeed in ensuring fair conditions for third country workers and their protection against ill-treatment by employers. it is therefore necessary that designated third parties, such as trade unions or non-governmental organisations, have the possibility to lodge complaints on behalf of seasonal workers in order to ensure effective enforcement of the laws.
in writing, the european union is giving increased attention to preventive measures and creating a culture of prevention that raises citizens' awareness of natural and man-made risks. prevention is the most important factor in terms of protecting people. in the future, it is essential to intensify research into understanding and preventing environmental risks and to develop partnerships between insurance companies and research institutes in order to prepare citizens to face the risks associated with natural disasters. a higher degree of involvement of local authorities in decision-making on spatial planning and urban development will ensure improved management in the event of natural disasters. natural and man-made disasters require two different types of insurance and therefore two insurance markets must cover them. member states and regions within them are ultimately the ones to bear the costs of natural or man-made disasters and should therefore pay greater attention to risk prevention in order to minimise the consequences of disasters.
in writing - this agreement represents the first of a second generation of agreements between the european union and another country. following the conclusion of competition and cooperation agreements with the usa, canada, japan and south korea, the first of the second generation of agreements is between the european union and switzerland. unlike previous agreements, it contains new provisions on the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities during the investigation of the same case. this agreement is very important for the european union, as switzerland is the european union's third largest economic partner. in the event of a positive impact of the agreement in question, the european union will continue to conclude second generation agreements with other countries as well, which may be more complex than the agreement with switzerland due to different rules and procedures.
in writing - the proper functioning of the eu's internal market is based on the principles of competition, which are strictly monitored by the commission and the antitrust authorities of the member states, and are subject to heavy fines for infringements. to ensure a level playing field for our european businesses, we must also require the countries where our trading partners are located to respect certain minimum requirements. otherwise, european businesses and consumers will be disadvantaged and even harmed. i therefore advocate closer cooperation on competition, not only with the developed western countries but also with the developing countries. our priority should be particularly in fast-growing economies where competition rules are often poorly known or inconsistently applied and enforced. this situation is not always due solely to the reluctance of antitrust authorities to enforce the legislation in force but rather to a lack of experience in detecting cartels or abuses of a dominant position, prosecuting such acts and imposing appropriate sanctions.
in writing, the trade treaty is a step forward and aims to regulate the international trade in conventional weapons, which, unlike weapons of mass destruction and landmines, has not been the subject of any global legal instrument. despite its shortcomings, the treaty establishes common international standards to regulate international trade in conventional arms and in ammunition, parts and components of arms. it also aims to prevent and eliminate the illicit trade in these weapons. rapid ratification by member states is necessary for rapid ratification and implementation by all contracting parties. however, the member states cannot ratify this treaty separately, since it provides for import and export control measures which fall within the scope of the common commercial policy and thus within the exclusive competence of the european union.
the system of import duties must be continuously improved, but it must also be modernised, because the internal market in the european union must be protected from low-quality products from other countries, especially from asia. the impact on trade policy through anti-dumping and anti-subsidy rules must be such that the growing concerns of the european union producers are not justified. in order to ensure that threats of retaliation by third country producers following complaints of dumping or subsidisation are not real and that the union can protect our producers in a real way. the commission's proposed measure of partial repeal of the lesser duty rule may have an impact on retaliation and i think the rapporteur has rightly suggested that partial repeal of the lesser duty rule be dropped from the proposal. i have therefore decided to postpone the final vote and to leave enough room in the trilogue for negotiations.
in writing, the european union's trade defence system is based on world trade organisation rules and allows member states to tackle unfair practices, price dumping and subsidies by third countries, thereby maintaining a market balance and a level playing field for all participants. the european commission set itself the objective of modernising the current rules and introducing new amendments, in particular concerning the abolition of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping proceedings where a violation is found in the area of raw materials, the reimbursement of duties collected during an expiry review and the prior notification of the imposition of provisional duties. the modernisation by the european commission aims to increase the effectiveness of the instruments, reduce the risk of retaliation by third countries and increase transparency. it is now the rule that trade is confronted with obstacles which are not even essentially trade related but which nevertheless affect trade policy.
in writing - the airline industry has experienced a steady increase in passenger numbers and flights over the last 50 years. however, this positive development brings with it problems caused by the unclear interpretation of regulations and the increasingly frequent violations of legislation by airlines to the detriment of passengers. the national authorities responsible for checks do not sufficiently enforce the rights and claims of passengers. passengers are exposed to legal uncertainty which makes them reluctant to go to court, given the complexity of the process and the high costs which airlines use as an alibi to avoid liability for inadequate service. the revised regulation clearly strengthens passengers' rights to assistance and compensation in the event of long delayed flights. the european commission is working to improve the situation of passengers who miss a connecting flight because of a change in flight plan or a delay. these passengers should be assisted and rerouted by the previous air carrier which caused the delay at the transfer point leading to the passenger missing his flight.
in writing - regulation 1346/2000 established a framework for crossborder insolvency proceedings. it determines which member state has jurisdiction to open insolvency proceedings, lays down uniform rules on the applicable law and provides for the recognition and enforcement of insolvency-related decisions and the coordination of secondary insolvency. experience has shown that this regulation is fulfilling its function satisfactorily, but that the application of some of its provisions needs to be improved. the draft report sets out the minimum criteria that the trustee's pledge to local creditors must meet in order to be enforceable and binding. the creation of a european union register, which would allow creditors and courts to determine whether bankruptcy proceedings have been opened in another member state, is also promising and would thus increase publicity and transparency. it will also be important to address the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings in the case of groups of companies.
the union must remain active and present in ukraine. the demonstrations have clearly shown the determination of many ukrainians to fight despite the arrogance of government power. we who have experienced similar situations in our country know very well that the greatest encouragement and support at that time is the interest and support of a democratic europe. the solution must be sought in dialogue. i therefore support all the steps that the union is taking in this direction. repeal of senseless laws does not solve the situation and the essence of why people are demonstrating in ukraine. i also believe that the time has come for free elections, but only after the adoption of a new constitution, which must be adopted before then. otherwise, it probably doesn't make much sense. we also have the use of targeted sanctions on the table. we need to seriously consider this, but above all, we need to show the ukrainians that we stand with them. and so to offer them things that will help them get out of this crisis. you have to have a clear plan and stick to it.
let me just make one note. i think it's not true that the european commission, commissioner füle, catherine ashton don't have a plan. i think the one on the table is a good and correct plan. but that does not mean that we should not be aware that the european union is in a new situation. what was to happen in vilnius showed a certain gravitational force of the european union and russia responded to it. russia responded in a way that can very clearly be characterized as a certain imperial response. hannes swoboda correctly noted that russia has no right to colonize ukraine. he has no right, because ukraine is a sovereign, independent country. russia is obviously trying to gain spheres of influence to which it has absolutely no claim. it's imperial policy and we must be prepared with all means, perhaps for the first time, to respond to that in our neighborhood... (speech was interrupted by the chairman. )
madam president, my opinion is slightly different from that of some of my colleagues here. i think the planned mission was decided upon in a relatively short period of time. its operational objectives are narrow but well defined, focusing mainly on the critical task of providing security for the capital’s airport. it is authorised by a un security council resolution; it complements the efforts of the african union force; and it comes in a package with humanitarian assistance and civilian support for a political settlement, a transitional government and an electoral process. now, however, the member states must move quickly to supply the necessary troops and assets. any hold-up at this stage would have terrible consequences – not only for the thousands of refugees at bangui airport, but for the eu’s credibility as well.
madam president, i support the text of the resolution that strongly condemns the violence and barbarities currently occurring in syria. yet we must be clear that al-assad has no future in the syrian government after a transitional body is formed. under his regime, tens of thousands of innocent syrian civilians have been systematically tortured, killed and massacred. the eu and other participating bodies in the geneva talks must make sure that these negotiations are constructive and follow the geneva communiqué passed in 2012. we must not waste time; we must begin the transition of power from the al-assad regime to the people of syria. enough blood has been shed over the last two years. it is time for democracy and peace to prevail in syria. it is not achievable if al-assad stays in power.
mr president, two facts are crystal clear. first, there will be no military solution; neither side can win. diplomacy aiming for a political transition of power is the only way of ending this tragedy. second, the role of iran is crucial. tehran can effectively block any solution, but iran is also the only player capable of forcing assad to step back. the rhetoric of new president rouhani offers some hope, but iran must yet demonstrate that its new foreign policy course is serious and credible, not only in the nuclear negotiation but also in syria. helping to achieve a political solution could be the basis of iran’s reinvented regional role. the eu should develop a broad-based dialogue with iran, including on syria. given our limited options for action in syria, we must take advantage of any strategic opening.
madam president, i strongly support the resolution regarding egypt, which condemns all the acts of violence, terrorism and incitement being committed against the citizens of egypt. we should urge all the military and political actors to avoid any provocations or unjust actions which can cause the ongoing volatile situation to deteriorate. the authorities should ensure that there is security and stability throughout the country, especially in the sinai area. i would also like to stress the importance of ensuring the fundamental democratic rights every egyptian citizen deserves and of ending any kind of oppression being committed against them. the international community must also contribute to ensuring that stability and democracy once again govern egypt.
tomorrow the sochi olympics start. it's a good time to talk about bilateral relations and the situation in russia. we can't hide the fact that our relations with russia are at their lowest ebb. they reflect russia's behavior inside the country as well as in its surroundings. the regime's lax attitude towards human and minority rights is reprehensible. the external pressure exerted by moscow on the states in its vicinity and neighbourhood is unacceptable and resembles something like modern colonialism, as several speakers have already said today. the outcome of last week's summit was not surprising. we are strategic partners, but we have different views on many fundamental issues. these include respect for human rights and the situation in ukraine. our attention and response to russia should not be distracted by the winter olympics. on the contrary, this is the right moment to be more active in raising awareness of events in russia.
i think that today, as i hear this, none of us is questioning that we really need a partnership with the russian federation and a partnership that is really based on mutual trust. i do not question the fact that the russian side may not always comply with all the conditions that we have set together. but isn't that a little bit of a mistake on our part, that we make ourselves with our arrogance and our belief that we're doing the right thing? we simply have to work with the russian federation. i was in moscow just the day after the summit ended, which was so short, and i can tell you that each of us really has our own view of what happened. our, from my point of view, childish, premature end to this summit was very much laughed at by the russian side. although we have ended the cold war in the world, i sometimes feel that we are entering an ice age and these relations between us are getting colder and colder. so something really needs to be done. perhaps the sochi olympics, which my colleagues often mention here today, i think is about sports and not politics. and it's really about the sacrifices of people who have worked for years to get into the olympics. and to say that we're not going to participate and we're going to boycott these olympics is not helping anything and it's really a disrespect to these efforts of people who have really worked hard to represent their country.
mr president, i am pleased to have the debate on three progress reports from the western balkans held in the kind presence of the greek presidency – the presidency of a country which plays a very important role in the region. the fact is that a lot has been achieved over the last ten years. we have a joint commitment from the eu and the countries of the region to work towards their membership of the union; accession negotiations with montenegro and serbia; talks between serbia and kosovo; progress in albania and also in fyrom. those are positive changes this commitment has brought, so this needs to be cultivated and kept up in the future. i hope that the greek presidency will do its best to push in the council for the integration of the region. now on fyrom: let me first of all thank richard howitt for his good work and dedication. he has prepared a good report with a few strong and clear messages. first, we call on the council to open the accession negotiations. there is no substantial reason why this has been postponed for the last five years. i am convinced that further prolongation might cost us our credibility and position in the region. negative consequences are already appearing and we might face the risk of the country backsliding. i agree, therefore, with last year’s recommendation from the commission to start the accession negotiations. this would also contribute to creating good conditions for finding a solution to the name issue and improving good neighbourly relations. i feel that the greek presidency should take this as an opportunity to make a breakthrough.
madam president, as this discussion is showing, we all agree that data on women and girls affected by fgm are more than shocking. it was mentioned that more than 140 million women have experienced this type of violence. the most affected countries are egypt, ethiopia, somalia and sudan, where prevalence rates can be as high as 98%. in other countries, such as nigeria, kenya, togo and senegal, the prevalence rate varies between 20% and 50%, but it is not present only in africa. fgm takes place in parts of the middle east too, for example in yemen, oman, iraqi kurdistan, and among some bedouin women in israel as well. statistics released recently by unicef, analysing data from 29 countries in africa where fgm is most prevalent, show that 18 of these countries are in west and central africa and that fgm affects one fifth of young girls in sub-saharan africa itself. bearing in mind that fgm is mostly carried out on young girls between infancy and the age of 15, we should speak about a serious breach of children’s rights as well as equally serious violence against girls and women. as a result of immigration and refugee flows, fgm is now being practised by ethnic minority populations in other parts of the world, including the european union. as mentioned, we have an estimated 500 000 women and girls at risk. ten member states have specific criminal law provisions on fgm, but on the basis of existing criminal codes it can be prosecuted as a criminal offence in all member states. in addition, all member states, in the process of prosecuting fgm, have recognised the legal principle of extraterritoriality. in certain member states, high prevalence was detected, for example in france, where the estimated number is more than 60 000, and in the uk, with more than 65 000. although, as mentioned, there is provision for prosecution in fgm cases, in the eu this is still rare, so what we need is law enforcement.
for the efd group the renewal of the inland transport scheme gives operators in the sector hope of obtaining the necessary support from the european union to increase the competitiveness of goods transport by waterways. the transport of goods by sea is energy efficient and it is therefore important to create the conditions for it to remain an integrated part of the supported transport system of the union. the continuation of the naiades inland waterway programme must be directed both at improving the infrastructure of inland waterways and at the technical modernisation of vessels providing transport services. inland waterways are part of six of the nine corridors of the ten-t core network and therefore the building of multimodal transport requires the creation of missing links and the use of the capacities of the connecting europe facility to address bottlenecks. it will also be important to promote the integration of waterborne transport information systems into the information flows of other modes of transport in order to effectively integrate shipping into the integrated inland multimodal transport system. as in the automotive sector, we must also support the introduction of modern technologies in the shipping industry in order to increase the environmental performance of shipping. the naiades programme, in my view, can be of great help in revitalizing the waterway transport of goods within the european union.
i supported the proposal to establish common rules for the system of compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and other compensation, because it is a good measure to protect citizens whose only means of transport is often the airplane. during my five years in the european parliament, i spent a lot of time at airports. i mean, i've had my own experience with flight delays and cancellations, with hand luggage problems that were just airport purchases. i often had to claim compensation for cancelled flights, and it was not always easy. i therefore welcomed the fact that it was specified which of the circumstances of the cancellation of flights were exceptional and which were such as to be the responsibility of the carrier and to compensate the passengers for the costs. however, i think it is very important that the travelling public is informed about the measures taken in the regulation so that they can apply them in their daily practice.
in writing - the aviation industry has undergone major changes in recent years. this is mainly due to the increase in the number of passengers and flights on the european single market. however, this positive development has been and is still to some extent accompanied by the application of unfair practices and a reduction in the quality of services with negative consequences for passengers. the most prominent example of such behaviour, in my view, is the behaviour of some low-cost companies operating on the european market. although their practices may appear to be fine, so to speak, in accordance with regulations and rules, closer examination and, especially, personal experience, reveal that this is not so. the way in which services are sold is often opaque and purposefully misleading, which complicates the exercise of passenger rights. the inconsistent application of the current regulation by both carriers and national authorities is thus causing confusion not only for passengers but also for the whole industry. i agree with the rapporteur that one of the main problems is that carriers do not automatically recognise the rights of the passenger concerned. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2010 and that the agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on 1 july 2010. i therefore regard the main priorities as being to increase transparency, improve access to information and improve enforcement of rights with the help of national authorities.
in writing, the european union and other major greenhouse gas emitters have focused their efforts on reducing emissions to the upper 80-95% limit by 2050. according to the ipcc report, the timeframe for global action is fast approaching its end and inaction by individual states could reverse recent progress towards the mdgs. there is a real threat of a 10 to 20 percent increase in global hunger, which would hit the poorest regions and countries of the planet hard. member states of the european union must reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to at least 50% below 1990 levels by 2030. by 2020, member states must make every effort to increase investment in climate architecture to help less developed countries achieve ambitious goals. the european union should continue to reduce emissions and create new jobs in the environmental industries.
in writing - the syrian conflict has devastated the country and the humanitarian and social situation in syria is catastrophic. violence is escalating, and the number of victims is constantly increasing. monitoring the number of dead and wounded is very difficult due to the lack of access to the area due to the conflict. the regime of president assad has committed widespread human rights violations and groups supporting him have been terrorising the region. according to the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees, massacres and unlawful killings, arrests, executions of prisoners, and systematic torture are taking place. the conflict in syria has resulted in the flight of 2,63 million citizens to neighbouring countries. one of the largest refugee exodus in modern history is putting pressure on surrounding countries and their economies and destabilising the region. the health system in syria is on the verge of collapse due to the kidnapping, torture and killing of doctors, nurses and paramedics. the regime continues to demonstrate its use of barrel bombs and chemical weapons against civilians. the situation in syria is destabilising the political situation in the region and threatens to spread the conflict to lebanon and iraq.
in writing - the civil war or crisis in syria has been ongoing since 2011. the conflict continues to take a toll on the lives of syrians, with the death toll exceeding 100,000. human rights are violated constantly, whether by government troops or by insurgents. unicef found that more than five and a half million children have been affected by the conflict, of which more than four million are in syria and more than one million are in neighboring countries. as for children, the surrounding countries have nearly 8,000 refugees. un reports prove that chemical weapons have been used against civilians including children. last year's un resolution banning the use, development, acquisition and stockpiling of chemical weapons was adopted unanimously. chemical weapons, however, are only the tip of the iceberg, since the vast majority of deaths have been caused by conventional weapons. the biggest problem with the way out of this crisis is the lack of an alternative to the current dictatorial regime. it is estimated that over a thousand different factions may be fighting against the current regime, with the risk of radicalisation increasing. available information indicates a possible 'force' of up to ten thousand foreign individuals who have joined the many factions of the fragmented opposition in order to advance the agenda of radical islam.
in writing, the new egyptian constitution was approved on 1 december 2013 and a referendum on its adoption was held in mid-january 2014, when it was overwhelmingly approved by valid votes. during the referendum, there were several clashes between supporters and opponents of ousted president morsi. over the past six months, over a thousand protesters have been killed by security forces. egyptian civil society is currently undergoing major political and social changes, with a free and independent press and media coming to the fore. tensions between muslims and coptic christians have escalated since president morsi was ousted from power in the country, and the process of church demolitions continues. former president morsi faces four different criminal cases, three of which relate to his term as president. the egyptian economy is experiencing a period of rising unemployment and a significant increase in poverty in the country. the level and scope of the european union's engagement in egypt depends on the fulfilment of its commitments in the areas of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and gender equality.
in writing. - russia is one of the european union's most important strategic partners. on 28 january 2014, a summit took place, which provided an opportunity to improve relations and discuss regional economic integration, the common neighbourhood and other key foreign policy issues. the european union encourages russia to fulfil its obligations as a member of the world trade organisation and to remove trade barriers such as motor vehicle recycling fees. cooperation between the european union and russia in the field of research and development is at a high level. cooperation in the field of energy is very important for both partners and russia should not use the supply of natural resources as a political tool. in russia, problems with the independence of the judiciary and the deteriorating situation of civil society, political opposition, human rights defenders and the lgbt community continue. no progress has been made in the negotiations on a new agreement to replace the current partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing - what ? during my visit to moscow last week, i was able to see once again what topics the russians were most interested in in relation to the european union. not much has changed, but rather, to what's left, topics like ukraine and syria have been added. the most important issue in russia, in my opinion, is the issue of security. the two terrorist attacks in late december that shook the country and the international community were compounded by the approaching sochi olympics. the topic of the crisis in ukraine attracted the most attention. the eu-russia summit was similarly reduced from two days of talks to a few hours. some european politicians also stirred up enthusiasm by taking part in pro-european demonstrations in kiev. the demonstrations in ukraine began in november after president yanukovych announced that he would not sign trade and political agreements with the european union. in confronting my russian partners, i held to the values and opinions that i share with my s-d colleagues. first and foremost, it is about recognising the importance of the eu-russia partnership, which is strategically important because of the interconnectedness of the two actors. it is also unacceptable that the creation of political pressure creates instability, as was the case in ukraine and therefore we must not allow the emergence of a politics of blocs competing for spheres of influence, but instead find common interests in the management of a stable neighbourhood.
in writing - what ? the country lacks cooperation and dialogue among the highest ethnic representatives. civil society has been very little involved in efforts to reform the country, overcome existing disputes and improve the lives of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. the country must undertake a key constitutional reform in the near future to kick-start the transition to a fully functioning rule of law. the country's accession process to the european union remains unobserved due to dysfunctional institutions, a democratic deficit and the continuing failure of the competent authorities to meet the requirements for the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement. the ongoing dispute between the political leaders is affecting, among others, the implementation of the judgment of the european court of human rights, which could lead to the question of the legality of the 2014 elections. the european commission has cancelled all pre-accession aid projects due to the country's ongoing political disputes, and the reallocation of money for socioeconomic development remains in question.
in writing - the non-reopening of accession negotiations with macedonia is increasing public opinion frustration in the country and increasing internal tensions. the european commission will have to take all the necessary steps to ensure that the decision to open accession negotiations is taken during the current greek presidency. the delay in the opening of accession negotiations represents a steadily increasing financial cost for the country and a further deterioration of the economic situation in the region. the authorities in macedonia must accelerate the adoption of reforms and strengthen the rule of law, judicial and public administration reforms, as well as improve inter-ethnic cohesion. the government must continue reforms in public spending and public procurement to improve the quality of public administration.
in writing, macedonia made progress in several areas in 2013. reducing unemployment and increasing gdp, but the country still has difficulties in addressing the problems of the minorities living on its territory, in particular the albanian and roma minorities. however, we believe that the accession negotiations can accelerate the last necessary reforms in the country, which are necessary for its membership. these are mainly reforms in the judiciary, public administration and also human rights issues. we call for better neighbourly relations, in particular with bulgaria and greece. if accession negotiations do not take place, the country risks incurring unexpected costs, which will have a negative impact on regional stability. it could also cause deepening domestic problems and internal tension. accession negotiations should therefore serve as a stimulus for macedonia to accelerate the building of a strong democratic state that upholds european values, with the ultimate outcome being eu membership.
in writing, montenegro made progress towards integration into the european union in 2013. the implementation of concrete measures and effective reforms brings it closer to meeting all the requirements for formal membership in the accession negotiations. judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime are part of the efforts to gradually build the rule of law. we also consider the strengthening of parliamentary powers and cultural and economic cooperation with neighbouring states, including kosovo, to be important steps. however, the country needs to complete electoral reforms and reforms of political party financing to ensure a higher level of voter confidence. we also consider it important to include representatives of civil society in the negotiating structures and to ensure that citizens are informed in good time by the government, which will result in increased transparency during the negotiations. concerns about the persistence of violence against women remain, and we also stress the special role of independent and sustainable public media. despite the shortcomings identified by the european union, montenegro has recently shown initiative to eliminate them as soon as possible and it is therefore realistic that accession negotiations will be resumed swiftly.
for the efd group the political situation in thailand is extremely tense. prime minister shinawatra's proposal to amnestize crimes committed by politicians and government officials after 2004 naturally provoked public anger. opposition leaders have taken the lead in confronting the dissatisfied citizens and have sharpened the atmosphere ahead of the parliamentary elections with radical statements. the state of emergency declared by the prime minister on 21 january has established absolute impunity for government institutions and officials involved in the enforcement of this decision. parliamentary elections are thus held in a situation where the exercisers of governmental power can, in the name of order, influence and change the electoral decisions of citizens in any way with impunity. to consider the parliamentary mandates that came out of these elections as legitimate would be a mockery of the thai people and democracy. however constructive our relationship with the administration of prime minister shinawatra, we must make it clear to her that a parliamentary body created by such violence and manipulation cannot be the basis for the establishment of a respected democratic government. on the other hand, the radical or monarchist opposition that is escalating political conflicts bears a large part of the responsibility for the rising tensions. the solution therefore appears to be coordinated international economic and political pressure on the representatives of the hostile parties to abandon confrontational procedures and, in their own interest and in the interest of the country, to let their citizens decide peacefully and freely on the future government.
it is well known that organised crime and illegal businesses generate huge profits every year, which are subsequently legalised and invested in legal activities. i also consider the concealment of assets and their reinvestment in countries other than those where the crime was committed to be a serious problem, which weakens the ability of states to combat cross-border crime effectively and ultimately reduces tax revenues for national governments and the eu budget. i therefore consider it essential that an effective system for the freezing, administration and confiscation of criminal assets be established in all member states, with the necessary institutional framework and financial and human resources. i consider that the legislation of the eu and its member states governing the confiscation of property derived from criminal activity is underused and underdeveloped. i believe that confiscation of criminal assets is an effective tool in the fight against organised and serious crime and should be given higher priority in the future. i expect that the adoption of minimum rules will be consistent with member states' freezing and confiscation regimes and will strengthen mutual trust and increase the effectiveness of cross-border cooperation. the european union must send a clear signal and take action to combat organised crime on its territory.
thank you, reporter, for your excellent report. the emergence of voluntary humanitarian aid is of enormous importance for europe's perception in the world, but especially for the younger generation of europeans. they get the opportunity to go where their help is needed most and be personally responsible for the outcome. they gain valuable experience, not just in the workplace. but above all, the european union will give thousands of young people the opportunity to see for themselves what is really lacking. europe is obsessed with a mentality of entitlement, too often taking for granted things that are not so. to have food, a place to live, to be able to go to school. but also to rely on solidarity when we get sick, lose our job, or are prevented by old age from taking care of ourselves. thanks to the european voluntary service, we have a chance to change this mentality.
the proposal for a regulation establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps is one of the concrete measures to strengthen the solidarity of european citizens with people in distress and need. it is well known that the union is the world's largest provider of humanitarian aid, but it is of the utmost importance to enable citizens of the european union to participate personally in humanitarian aid. direct aid also carries its own risks due to the exceptional natural or social conditions in the target countries and it is therefore necessary to create a secure framework for its effective and rapid delivery. the talent of volunteers, their skills and, above all, their goodwill must also be recognised by the fact that the conditions of volunteers are also addressed by the legislator in a legislative way, thus strengthening their position in the union's humanitarian aid.
i want to thank the three foreign ministers of france, germany and poland for their diplomatic engagement in kiev that helped bring an end to the violence. just as we mourned the deaths of innocent citizens of ukraine, we were filled with hope by the departure of president yanukovych. the tragic events have reminded us of the enormous importance of the european project. it has many flaws, but it protects us from dictators, from lawlessness, from violence, from chaos. ukraine has a place in the european area of freedom. but he has a difficult few months, perhaps years, ahead of him. the ukrainians must decide whether they want to continue as one state and whether they can respect european values. the eu stands ready to help ukraine, but only a ukraine that is democratic and fair to all its citizens, ukrainians as well as russians, tatars and jews, orthodox as well as catholics, evangelicals and atheists.
let me express my support for mrs honeyball and the text of the report which was adopted in committee. the term prostitution clearly includes trafficking in human beings. one man buys another man for his own appetite and pleasure. whether it is legal or forced prostitution, the principle is the same. treating human beings as commodities should be prohibited. i hope we can agree on that. i am aware that my position will not be accepted by colleagues whose member states have legalized prostitution. even the european court of justice has declared that prostitution is a profession like any other. i will not support the motion for an alternative resolution. i hope that we can get the honeyball report through, and as shadow rapporteur i will do everything to find a text that my group will support.
in writing. the eu must change. it's time to put the job first. today, 27 million europeans are unable to find a job, including almost a quarter of our young people. 120 million europeans live at or below the poverty line. creating jobs for young people is a challenge for the young generation of today and tomorrow, and it is also our long-term commitment. to create jobs, we need an ambitious industrial policy, investment in the social economy and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which cannot do without access to external resources. we need strict rules in the social field: equal pay for equal work; protection of workers' rights; dignity of work. it's time to revive the economy. pure austerity has hurt our economies and the weakest have paid the price. we need to use innovation, science and research, education and sound industrial policy to create jobs and boost the economy. discoveries from european laboratories and universities will create more jobs for european workers. we need to coordinate economic and fiscal policies in the euro area and anticipate the possible social impacts. public finances must be tightly guarded, the ballast removed and investments made where the citizens benefit most. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is a crucial priority for achieving a fair tax system.
in writing. - what ? the economic and financial crisis has significantly undermined the financial stability and economic growth of the member states. the european union has provided external assistance through macroeconomic programmes, which currently cover cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal. the main objective of the aid is to ensure that the member states concerned have sufficient financial resources to implement their fisheries policy projects in the future. the extension of the application of the co-financing rates increased by [nbsp ]10[nbsp ]% is a necessary measure to stimulate the development of projects and investments in the fisheries sector and thus to promote the creation of new jobs in the various regions.
in writing. - rule 136 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament governs the provisions on the residence document. as it stands, it only distinguishes between members present and absent at a sitting on the basis of the member's signature on the attendance record. it does not therefore take account of justified absences authorised by the president and justified by the quaestors. the proposed amendment should be recorded in the minutes of the meeting and identify precisely those members who were excused after the submission of the relevant documents. the reason for the amendment of the rules of procedure and the provisions on the residence document is to limit the impact of residence documents on parliament's activity indicators in justified cases.
in writing. - what ? legislation adopted by the european union in 2009 set binding targets for reducing emissions from new cars. the main objective of the legislation is to improve the fuel consumption of new cars and to reduce co2 emissions to 130[nbsp ]g between 2012-2015 and[nbsp ]95[nbsp ]g/km by 2020 on the european market. car manufacturers are being encouraged to innovate and incorporate new green technologies and packages that reduce consumption and therefore co2 emissions. in the future, incentives should be created to facilitate the recognition of innovative technologies and a new global fuel consumption test cycle.
in writing. - what ? reducing co2 emissions from new cars through modern drive concepts will bring significant financial benefits, primarily for the consumer. the agreement between the european parliament and the council on co2 emissions reductions will also lead to a directly proportional gradual reduction in fuel consumption. on the other hand, it can be said to be a clear step forward in maintaining the competitiveness of the european automotive industry on the world market. the new eu strategy sets a binding target to reduce co2 emissions from 130g/km to 95g/km in the production of new cars by 2020. i believe that the final text agreed by the european parliament and the member states is an adequate compromise that will promote the production of low-emission vehicles. however, we must not forget that the use of new technologies must also take account of environmental protection. innovation not only moves the world, it also serves as a driving force for job creation. it is this aspect, which is also in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, that i considered the most important in my vote. the automotive industry has great potential for the future of the eu and the increase in employment of our citizens within the european union will bring us closer to achieving our personal and professional goals.
in writing. - what ? i consider the automotive and other motor vehicle industry to be the world's technological leader today, not only because it employs at least 8.5 million people worldwide, but also because of the significant investment in innovation that is taking place in this sector. this is also evidenced by the fact that many car manufacturers are already offering vehicles that are lighter, more fuel efficient, and lower in co2 emissions. despite this, we often find that cars and light commercial vehicles still produce around 15% of co2 emissions, which is not acceptable for the eu. i voted in favour of this report because it contains proposals and[nbsp]procedures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency in new passenger cars. i also supported the report because i believe that new technologies and improvements in fuel efficiency can have a positive impact on demand for components, which could ultimately also benefit employment.
the draft trade mark regulation is part of a long-standing package of measures to ensure faster and more efficient access for businesses to trade mark registration, thereby seeking to boost innovation and legal certainty. the modernisation of existing provisions in view of the dual system of trade marks in the eu appears necessary in view of the ambiguities and, in the new provisions, the complexity and time-consuming procedure, which is not in the interest of businesses or consumers. in that regard, i would point out that trade marks help consumers to avoid the counterfeiting of goods, which mainly come from outside the union, and to make an informed decision on the quality of the products when they make their purchases. for these reasons, we support the unification of the trade mark registration system, the introduction of common tools and the harmonisation of the overall trade mark framework.
in writing. - what ? the long-awaited reform of the trade mark system in europe comes at a time when european customs authorities are reporting massive intellectual property infringements, especially in relation to counterfeits. it is therefore clear that the trademark system in europe needs to be modernised. the european union institutions must act swiftly to protect citizens from the negative consequences of counterfeiting. the european union agency for trade marks and designs is preparing to set up a system for the registration of geographical indications in the near future and is preparing to take on the tasks of the upcoming legislation on the protection of trade secrets. the resources raised by the agency in the form of fees should be used to further develop the agency and to ensure a high level of protection of intellectual property rights in europe.
in writing. - what ? the reform of the trademark comes at a time when eu customs authorities are reporting massive breaches of international patent law standards. the current system calls for stricter measures, not only to protect consumers but also the producers of original products themselves, because of the increasing number of counterfeits crossing eu borders. the trade mark system was developed 20 years ago and has had a clear success in consumer protection. as the eu developed, the number of member states increased, and the number of consumers increased in direct proportion, to 500 million. the main purpose of the community trade mark reform should, in my view, be to reduce costs for manufacturers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, who would be guaranteed protection of their rights within the eu. european producers lose their income because of the illegal counterfeiting of low-quality and often harmful products. i hope that, in cooperation with the council, we will be able to define the process of granting trade marks correctly and to establish rules for the european and national levels of protection that are suitably complementary.
the legal framework for confiscation of proceeds of crime has been discussed at eu level since 2009 in view of the billions of euros in damage caused to society by crime. the fight against crime requires a coherent approach and mutual trust between law enforcement authorities in all member states in order to cooperate effectively across borders. the harmonisation of penalties in this respect strengthens the certainty that offenders will be punished with comparable severity, which has both a preventive and a repressive effect. i consider it necessary that the directive strictly observes the fundamental rights and principles recognised by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is important to ensure sufficiently that the principle of ne bis in idem is respected where the same act is committed by the same perpetrator and, as regards confiscation even without a final judgment of a court, it should be permissible only in the cases of particularly serious organised crime, which are listed in exhaustive terms.
i consider the confiscation of criminal assets to be a very important tool in the fight against organised crime, which is becoming increasingly widespread in the european union. the activities of organised crime are increasingly carried out outside their home country, often in several member states. in this context, i consider it of the utmost importance to establish harmonisation rules that facilitate the cross-border freezing and confiscation of assets stemming from serious and organised cross-border crime by eu member states. i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the adoption of these measures will make it possible to detect cases of corruption and to recover ill-gotten gains even more effectively and consistently. the adoption of the proposed measures will also strengthen public confidence in the criminal justice system, strengthen cross-border cooperation and make the confiscation process more efficient in the successful fight against serious and organised crime.
in writing. - what ? the current economic situation, the financial crisis and the slowdown in economic growth present new opportunities for perpetrators, increase the vulnerability of the economy and pose new challenges for public authorities. organized crime and illegal enterprises generate huge profits every year, which are then legalized and invested in legal activities. the concealment of assets and their reinvestment in member states other than those where the crime was committed undermines the ability of member states to combat cross-border crime effectively and ultimately reduces tax revenues for national governments and the eu budget. an effective system for the freezing, administration and confiscation of criminal assets must be in place in all member states, with the necessary institutional framework and financial and human resources. the legislation of the eu and its member states governing the confiscation of criminal assets is currently underused and underdeveloped. confiscation of criminal assets is an effective tool in the fight against organised and serious crime and should be given higher priority in the future. the adoption of minimum rules will be consistent with member states' freezing and confiscation regimes and will strengthen mutual trust and increase the effectiveness of cross-border cooperation.
in writing. - what ? the critical situation in europe in the form of increasing counterfeiting and infringement of intellectual property rights requires the modernisation of the trade mark system in europe. member states have had the opportunity to learn and use the experience gained to strengthen the substantive law and practice aspects of trade marks. the european business environment is made up of a huge number of companies and therefore the trade mark system needs to be clearly understandable and accessible to all users. individual member states must work to improve the services provided by national offices, which would make national trademark protection systems more attractive to users.
in writing. - what ? the european police office was created in 1995 in response to the rapid growth of organised and violent crime, which remains a significant threat to the security and prosperity of the european union. the regulation aims to establish a european union agency for law enforcement and cooperation and to repeal council decision 2009/371/jha, thereby bringing europol into line with the treaty of lisbon, which brought about the recognition of the european parliament's right to co-decide, and thereby to enable the european parliament and the council, by means of a regulation and by means of the ordinary legislative procedure, to determine the scope and structure of europol. the proposal strengthens, inter alia, democratic governance and the oversight of europol's activities by national parliaments and the european parliament, which will be informed in detail through annual activity reports and the closure of accounts. the new regulation should strengthen and clarify the data protection regime. there should also be no merger between europol and the european police college.
in writing. - what ? the new directive aims to merge and recast the existing directives 2005/71/ec and 2004/114/ec and to add two new categories of paid trainees and au pairs. the european commission intends to create a more attractive environment for migrants from third countries. it will allow students from third countries to work 20 hours a week and will also allow students and researchers who have studied in the european union to stay in the eu for 12 months to find employment or set up their own business. the european commission is working to simplify and harmonise entry conditions so that successful applicants can obtain a long-term visa or residence permit. simplifying the process of accession conditions seeks to address the problem of europe's ageing population and to maintain the competitiveness of the european economy.
massive disasters - such as droughts, floods, landslides, tsunamis, earthquakes, fires, and other hazards - affect millions of people every year. as the scale and frequency of these global threats in the world is increasing every year and is likely to continue, i agree that new solutions and practices should be sought to help save lives and reduce suffering. the european union is the largest provider of humanitarian aid in the world, and together with the financial resources provided by individual countries, it contributes more than half of humanitarian aid. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the european union continues to provide support and humanitarian aid to those in need, and that not only prevention and the preparedness of the voluntary humanitarian aid corps can be strengthened, but that the long-term consequences of various disasters can also be addressed.
in writing. - what ? solidarity and humanitarian values are a highly developed and important part of the european union's policies. the establishment of the volunteer humanitarian aid corps is intended to contribute to enhancing the european union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises and thus to declare solidarity with people in need or communities affected by disasters in third countries. the activities of the college should complement the existing structures and organisations of the european union in the field of humanitarian aid. the european union suffers from an acute lack of a uniform mechanism for the selection of volunteers and their lack of training for the provision of humanitarian aid. in the current period of war and conflict, the importance and scale of humanitarian operations have increased and the financial resources invested in humanitarian action need to be increased.
in writing. - there is no doubt that humanitarian aid in third world countries is needed. the european union is also working on a proposal to set up european voluntary humanitarian aid corps during this period. they should enhance the interest of european citizens in humanitarian projects. they would thus complement existing national and international volunteering schemes without duplicating their work. european aid volunteers [should not be deployed to third countries affected by natural disasters or man-made crises. their assistance in situations of armed conflict and internal problems of states to ensure the safety of volunteers is expressly excluded. based on a number of studies as well as personal experience, i have realised that awareness of humanitarian aid among eu citizens needs to be constantly raised. few people know that the european union is the largest donor of humanitarian aid. its share of global humanitarian aid is almost 50[nbsp ]%, but it is often overshadowed by the assistance of other international organisations. the establishment of european voluntary humanitarian aid corps would provide a kind of light at the end of the tunnel for[nbsp]the people who desperately need this aid, and would also help to raise the profile of one of the fundamental values of the european union, which is solidarity. as volunteering is a concrete and visible expression of solidarity, i will certainly support this proposal.
i think the fight against poverty is very important, although it is rather problematic and not easy. i supported the report because i believe that the fund can contribute to alleviating some forms of poverty and social exclusion in europe. although the fund is estimated to be able to help only two million citizens a year and we estimate that around 120 million people across the union are living below the poverty line, i believe that reducing and eradicating poverty and social exclusion must remain a key task for member states. the €3.5 billion allocated to providing and distributing aid and material assistance to the poorest is a good thing. it is a foundation, but everyone has to be involved in the aid, member states, businesses, the voluntary sector, regional authorities, civil society organisations, and let us not forget that poverty reduction must also be a central theme ahead of the upcoming european parliament elections.
in writing. - what ? in 2010, almost 120 million people in the member states were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the economic and financial crisis that has been ongoing since 2009 has changed the social map of the european union beyond recognition. material deprivation and the most severe forms of poverty have spread throughout society. the financial resources for the fund for european aid to the most deprived have been increased and can only be used to support them. the fund is the successor to the european food aid programme, which has been in operation since 1987, but has a much larger scope and reach. the fund for the most deprived is a sign of european solidarity, despite its low budget. the rate of poverty and social exclusion in the european union is increasing significantly and there is therefore a need to invest in measures to reduce the social gap in society and to protect human dignity and solidarity.
in writing. - what ? in the context of the continuing economic difficulties in the member states, the number of people suffering from severe material deprivation is increasing every year. in 2012, almost 8% of union citizens were living in material deprivation and about one quarter of europeans were at risk of poverty in 2010. unfortunately, the most affected are women and children. the union strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, europe 2020, aims to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. one way forward is to ensure that, in addition to creating jobs in all regions and strengthening social infrastructure, for example through the structural funds, adequate financial coverage is provided under the fund for european aid to the most deprived. for these reasons, i support the report.
in writing. - what ? i see the establishment of the fund for european aid to the most deprived as a demonstration of our solidarity with the people most affected by the crisis. in 2010, almost a quarter of europeans faced poverty or social exclusion. despite its limited resources, the fund is an adequate instrument to alleviate the most severe forms of poverty, food and material deprivation, which are still to be found in almost all eu member states. the fund is built on the european food aid programme, which was established in 1987. however, its scope is much wider and funding can be used, for example, to support social inclusion measures as well as to provide practical help to homeless people in finding accommodation. the use of the fund must be committed to helping those most affected by poverty, and the application of its funds should be subject to consultation with stakeholders such as food banks, charitable organisations and civil society. i agree with the proposal that the key actors should also be involved in the design, operation and monitoring of the national schemes that will implement the programme. i think it is necessary to point out that the fund for european aid to the most deprived is only a complementary instrument to existing national policies. the responsibility and commitment to fight poverty and contribute to the general well-being of our citizens lies with the member states themselves.
in writing. i welcome the effort to help the people who are dependent on it. but i am also concerned about the administrative complexity of the operation of this fund. to be effective, its use in individual member states and feedback from non-profit organisations needs to be continuously evaluated.
in writing. - what ? in 2012, the european commission adopted regulation 528/2012 on the making available on the market of biocidal products. however, in the meantime, the european commission and the member states have identified a small number of technical errors and their consequences. the amended proposal aims to make the necessary adjustments as soon as possible. the adoption of the amended version will ensure a high level of protection for humans, animals and the environment and will provide the necessary clarity and legal certainty to the general public.
in writing. - the european parliament has been debating the proposal for a directive on combating violence against women for a long time. the member states of the european union argue that the economic crisis prevents them from contributing more financially to the fight against gender-based violence, but the economic costs for the member states of violence against women are substantially higher than the intended preventive measures. the problem of a uniform legislative framework for combating violence against women does not exist in the national legislation of the member states either. the main objective of the legislative act would be to encourage and[nbsp]encourage member states to take an active approach to the issue of gender-based violence. however, the collection of information on violence against women is also problematic due to the lack of a coherent and comprehensive database of data. by adopting a regulation on gender-based violence, the european union will become a leader and a successful example in the fight against violence against women.
in writing. - what ? in today's world, there is still a huge percentage of women who are humiliated, beaten, sexually abused, just because they are women and girls. statistics show that 20 to 25% of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives. 12 15% became victims of domestic violence. we could go on and on about the statistics for hours. the result of our reflections would only be to confirm the fact that violence against women is a grave violation of human rights and has no place in our time. i support the proposed strategy, which aims to introduce concrete steps and minimum rules to serve as a source of information for member states on how they should deal with violence against women. i recognise that the definition of offences and[nbsp]sanctions in cases of hidden domestic violence, which often goes unreported, is extremely complex. i am personally convinced that through awareness-raising, information campaigns and funding for networks and organisations working directly in the field, we will be able to identify individual cases more effectively. by introducing preventive measures into the legislation of the member states, we will be able to prevent physical and psychological suffering of women by the opposite sex. since this phenomenon has an international dimension, i believe that the benefits of the proposed instruments will also be ensured through the harmonisation of legislation on crimes against women.
in writing. - what ? violence against women is a major cause of gender inequality. it's a violation of basic human rights. the statistics that up to a quarter of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives are alarming. violence affects women from infancy to old age. it occurs in school, at work, in peer groups, in public, but also in the privacy of family or partner life. we all know about violence against women, we talk about it, but it's not very effective in eliminating it. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that the commission should organise a european year against violence against women in the coming years, which would allow us to talk more about this problem and involve more organisations, institutions and local authorities in tackling it. an information campaign would also help, so that the women themselves who are victims of violence are not afraid to speak up and, if necessary, seek professional help. in order to combat violence against women, member states must draw up action plans, increase media awareness and adopt specific criminal law provisions and measures.
in writing. - violence against women is unacceptable. but if we want to address the situation of women who are at risk of or have been victims of violence, let's not hide it behind a modern fetish that the word gender has become. the european treaties do not recognize this term. the word 'gender' is not defined in european law, as the commission confirmed in its written reply to my question. by using it in legislation, we increase legal uncertainty. i support the creation of uniform european rules to combat this form of violence, from prevention to protection of victims to prosecution of perpetrators. however, according to the report, the 'reproductive health policy' should become the 'core of the discussion on violence against women', including, for example, the liberalisation of abortion. it is a mockery of women because it places the responsibility for the rapist's act on the victim of the violence. such a distorted view of women is in direct conflict with efforts to prevent violence and to help its victims.
in writing. - the report calls for a change in economic strategy to ensure important fiscal consolidation in the current economic and financial crisis, but also growth and employment friendly policies. the european financing mechanism will serve as an incentive to greater convergence in the european union in order to repair the damage caused by the coordinated austerity measures that have been adopted in recent years. the 2014 annual growth survey opens the 2014 european semester, which is a surveillance mechanism established to ensure that member states maintain consistency between their budgetary and economic policies and their eu-wide commitments under the stability and growth pact, the country-specific recommendations and the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - what ? unemployment in the european union reached 26.6 million and increased in most member states. the annual survey opens the european semester by setting out the guidelines for the economic priorities of the european union for the coming year. it's the first step in a seven-year cycle. for the first time this year, the employment report includes a table to identify the main employment and social problems. the proposed text should strengthen the social dimension of economic and monetary union, create more binding social and employment indicators, increase the number of jobs and wages, reforms in the labour market to improve the quality and safety of work and much more. the role of the european parliament in the european semester process will be strengthened, thereby increasing the emphasis on addressing the consequences of the economic crisis and ensuring inclusive and sustainable growth.
in writing. - the european economy must be ready to respond to the food supply and climate change challenges of the future and to prepare a modern and competitive plant breeding industry. the european union must take measures and allocate funds to conserve biological and genetic diversity and[nbsp]accelerate and facilitate research and development of adaptable crops through traditional or new techniques. it is important that the results of research and innovation reach small and micro-employers and operators. the development of new varieties can take up to 10[nbsp ]years on average, and it is therefore important to use new plant breeding practices and to use available innovative technologies to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural and horticultural sector and thus meet the growing demands of the world's growing population.
more than a decade of efforts by the european commission to[nbsp]create a coherent, single european railway area has so far failed to bring the expected improvements in services for passengers or for freight customers. the current attempt to control and[nbsp ]concentrate the issuing of operating and safety certificates in the hands of the european railway agency is a clear transition from the solution of rail transport organisation in the form of cooperation and[nbsp ]coordination between the institutions of the member states to the directive management of the railway area by brussels bureaucrats. i am not sure that the commission has prepared well for the legitimate reservations of the member states to the proposed form of harmonisation of railway rules. and i think that there will be some complications in implementing the proposed solutions. i don't want to disparage the work of the commission. i know the railway problem is complex, it has many layers. moreover, solutions that are acceptable to all those involved in the current organisation and use of railway space must be sought. i think that this work carried out by the commission will have a complicated follow-up.
in 2012, over 1 million road accidents on european roads resulted in approximately 28 000 deaths and over 1.5 million injuries. this is why the european union has committed itself to trying to reduce the number of road accidents. the introduction of the e-health call could make a significant contribution to achieving this objective as soon as possible. the main focus should be on safety aspects, and future vehicles should be equipped with a basic on-board telematics platform that links different technical solutions, thus ensuring accurate wireless positioning and connectivity to vehicle control systems available throughout the eu. it should also be ensured that no additional on-board application delays the introduction of the 112-based ecall system. the service should be free of charge for the benefit of all european motorists, irrespective of vehicle type and brand. consumers should be provided with clear information on the operation of the system beforehand.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs grossetête on her excellent work. a high level of health protection is one of the cornerstones of good mental and physical well-being and should therefore be a priority in the national programmes of all member states. in the field of public health, innovation is needed to improve the health system, including the quality of care and its patient-centricity. in order to achieve better health outcomes, it is important to inform citizens about the possibilities of preserving their health and preventing diseases. prevention of disease costs less than treatment. prevention should focus on risk factors that influence the individual's lifestyle and that can result in a number of diseases. a sedentary lifestyle, unhealthy eating, alcohol and drug use, and smoking are risk factors that can have a detrimental effect on health. i agree with the amendments which seek to promote and contribute to the eradication of disease and the promotion of good health through preventive measures. unfortunately, the restrictive measures taken by the member states have also affected healthcare. this has a negative impact on many socially disadvantaged people due to unequal access to healthcare. i therefore consider it important and support the amendments which also propose measures to reduce health inequalities. improving the health and healthy lifestyles of children and young people should also be taken into account, while emphasising the need to promote a culture of prevention. by 2030, the proportion of older people in the population is projected to increase significantly. the elderly require special attention in health matters. by maintaining their health, they can be active citizens of society while reducing social and medical costs for society. reform of health systems is key to ensure that they meet the needs of older people and future generations.
the rapid advances in electronic communications bring new possibilities for increasingly intensive use in everyday life. digital technologies are fundamentally changing many aspects of our lives, whether it is studying, working, shopping, or communicating with authorities or different institutions. with the extensive expansion of capacity and use of electronic services, the issue of cybersecurity of the transmission of information with which electronic and digital networks work is increasingly coming to the fore. illegal use of personal or public data can have fatal consequences for users of digital services. it is therefore essential that, when building the trans-european telecommunications networks, we already take care to ensure their maximum security and that no project of common interest should therefore allow a weak point to emerge in a well-established system of well-secured and meaningfully organised trans-european telecommunications networks, even as a result of the current reduction in the resources available for their financing. so i think that's the safety that should be the first priority.
i think today is a historic moment because, as a result of years of negotiations, we are able to take part in the plenary debate on the common european sales law. the report concludes that the common european right of sale can address the currently known internal market problems caused by the different contractual law regimes in the member states. the definition of the scope of the regulation may alleviate concerns regarding the influence of national legal systems. the european system will only be applicable to cross-border contracts and in particular to online contracts, and the common european sales law will be optional, i.e. will remain an optional instrument, according to the ep report. it will make available, within the legal systems of the member states, the uniform contract law rules laid down in the regulation, as a second system. i am confident that, through the work of parliament, traders, european smes, will really benefit from the opportunities offered by the new regulation. this would mean that they would be able to rely on common rules and the same contractual conditions for all their cross-border transactions, thus reducing their costs. the application of the same system is also relevant from the point of view of legal certainty, provided that appropriate consumer protection guarantees and remedies are provided. the legal certainty factor can be enhanced by the development by the commission of european standard contractual clauses. the legal instrument promising potential benefits for consumers and businesses in the internal market has taken shape and been perfected through the work of parliament. this will provide a good basis for further negotiations.
the consolidation and development of a well-functioning internal market are among the union's primary interests and tasks. nevertheless, for years consumers and traders have been waiting for unified rules on the right to buy, which would provide clear legal solutions to everyday business transactions. in particular, the area of distance selling, whether via the internet or other telecommunications technologies, suffers greatly from the lack of clear cross-border rules. i am convinced that the potential of distance selling will develop in direct proportion to the increase in predictability and legal certainty of both parties. consumers in particular appreciate standardised contractual terms which do not vary from one country to another but which, on the contrary, can be readily and in advance in their own language.
dear officer, dear colleagues! the youth guarantee will certainly alleviate the situation of unemployed trainees, if it does not solve it. the problem i see is that the 15% who drop out of school early, the 25% who learn to read, know the letters but do not understand the text when they are 14 years old - how much can the youth guarantee change their situation? it seems that the youth guarantee can offer little help to under-qualified groups. there will never be enough jobs in europe for the under-skilled to go into work en masse. and you don't send them back to your school with too much hope, because if they can't learn the basics in eight years, they're not going to learn the basics in the next year or two. it's not going to change the situation fundamentally. my question is whether the commission has a good answer to that question. are there good practices in the national plans that can be shared and effective?
in writing. youth unemployment is a growing threat, especially in those european union countries where almost half the young generation has already lost hope of not only finding a job but also of gaining independence. political gestures are not enough for young people. they need to see tangible results. i therefore see our role in closely monitoring and monitoring the effectiveness of the programmes that have come out of the european commission's workshop. the fight against unemployment is not only a european agenda, but concerns every country in the european union. slovakia received packages of eur 72.2 million from the 6 billion allocated to the youth guarantee programme for retraining, supporting the creation and maintenance of jobs for young people or upskilling and supporting first work experience. from my own country's experience, as well as from my long-standing work on the subject, i have to point out the gap between supply and demand that is becoming ever wider in the labour market. reviewing education systems, closer cooperation between employment offices and educational institutions, information guidance and training and developing entrepreneurial skills and competences are the way to integrate young people into the labour market. the youth guarantee is an excellent tool for stimulating the target population. however, if a country does not want to remain dependent on aid, it must identify its own potential areas.
in writing. i come from slovakia, so i would like to talk about the results achieved in the implementation of the youth guarantee schemes from the slovak perspective. although the employment situation in slovakia is not at all satisfactory, i would like to point out some of the positives that the slovak republic has already managed to put into practice in the implementation of the youth guarantee schemes. i consider it a particularly important guarantee for young people from the state that young people have the opportunity to receive a quality job offer, further education, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months after losing their job or leaving formal education. the slovak republic has adopted an amendment to the employment services act which should improve the awareness of schools of labour market developments and consequently the target group of jobseekers who can undertake a postgraduate traineeship has also been specified. in order to promote job opportunities and opportunities for apprenticeships and traineeships for young people, the slovak republic adopted an action plan for young people. since the start of the projects, 11 602 jobs for young people have been supported as of 15.1.2014 and 14 000 jobs are expected to be created by 2015.
in writing. while i understand some of the concerns that swiss citizens have about the growing number of eu citizens settling in their country, i do not agree with the policy of unilateral action. it is not possible to enjoy the benefits offered by the eu treaties while imposing restrictions on european citizens. comments on existing contracts which are substantiated may always be negotiated. this is the path the swiss government should have chosen, and i am sure that in the eu it would have found a constructive partner ready to deal with the problems that have arisen. hiding behind the result of a referendum initiated by the ruling party is an act of alibism and irresponsibility.
in writing. - what ? achieving the priorities in the area of the single market is essential to stimulating growth and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. realising the full potential of the internal market will bring about economic convergence between member states inside and outside the euro area, in the core as well as in the peripheral regions of the european union. purely quantitative statistical data on the enforcement of single market legislation are not sufficient to achieve these objectives. it is therefore essential to focus on the quality of how the legislation is implemented within the member states' framework on the basis of specific key indicators for the european single market sector developed at european level. the primary focus is on the key sectors with the potential to bring the most economic revival to specific regions. these measures will lead to a deepening of the internal market and will increase the protection of the rights of consumers and workers.
in writing. - what ? within the framework of cohesion policy, individual regions and cities can contribute to the three types of growth of the europe 2020 strategy. the main objective of this report is to identify the steps that are inevitable to be taken to bring cities and regions closer to the europe 2020 targets proposed in the national reform programmes. the convergence of cities and regions towards these objectives depends on several factors, such as social disparities in the country or the expected speed of change. cohesion policy programmes should select investment priorities taking into account the starting positions of specific regions and cities in relation to the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy programmes allow for the design of concrete strategies that address the specific needs of individual territories in an integrated manner and can thus reflect trade-offs and synergies between different types of investment. it is very important to take into account the significant needs of less developed cities and regions and to invest in their infrastructure.
in writing. - what ? i welcome the own-initiative report of the committee on regional development on progress in the area of cohesion. it follows the commission's evaluation reports, which confirm that the financial crisis has led to a renewed widening of disparities between european regions, in particular between the north and the south, but also between the old and the new member states. i support the effort to reverse this trend and that is why i also supported the report presented. at the same time, however, i would like to recall that regional cohesion is based on european solidarity, which is particularly threatened by the growing efforts to encroach on the powers reserved to the member states.
in writing. - what ? the assistance provided by the european union to the outermost regions is not only an expression of solidarity but also a means of pursuing its own objectives. systematic and far-reaching changes are needed in the new programming period to open up the investment policy in the outermost regions to new areas and thus to preserve sustainable development. the european union must make better use of the assets and opportunities offered by its outermost regions and focus on making better use of them, as they provide the european union with the basis for building a common future in which foreign actors are an integral part of development plans. cohesion policy and the agricultural and fisheries sectors must also be supported by other funds and strategies of the european union policies in order to achieve the priorities set in the outermost regions. the removal of barriers, obstacles and constraints is essential for the full involvement of the outermost regions in the system of other european union policies.
in writing. - the european commission must submit to the european parliament and the council an evaluation report on the financial situation based on the results achieved. the main objective of this report is to enhance the european parliament's ability to assess the legality and political objectives of financial operations. the european commission submitted the first such evaluation report for 2010, which was not positively received by the european parliament and the court of auditors due to its shortcomings in the limited scope. the european commission has made some progress in other reports, but there are still some shortcomings in terms of objectives and indicators, in line with the court's requirements for performance evaluation by summarising the results achieved by the various services in contributing to the main policies of the european commission.
as a doctor, i support the introduction of a system that can save many human lives on the roads of europe. but i wonder if such a system should be part of a health insurance policy or a motor vehicle insurance policy. i am of the opinion that the responsibility for taking care of the risks associated with driving a car should not be the responsibility of the european union but, above all, of the owner of the vehicle. it is a pity that the commission has not proposed legislation to base the introduction of e-call in motor vehicles on insurance premiums. instead, we decided to go the way of the duty to the producer, and therefore the way of the welfare state.
in writing. - what ? by introducing a uniform vat return, it aims to improve the efficiency of the collection of value added tax and thus reduce the administrative burden associated with its collection by eur 15 billion in a calendar year. the reduction in question can be achieved by gradually removing the burden on business by removing the obstacles which prevent the internal market from being fully exploited. in times of crisis, it is important to reduce expenditure in member states' public budgets. the introduction of a uniform tax return will reduce the excess costs incurred not only by the tax authorities of the member states but also by taxable persons. in order to ensure the professional and smooth functioning of the uniform tax return, member states will have to provide for specific training programmes for the use of the online filing system, which must be seamless and secure in the interest of the citizens of the member states.
in writing. - a uniform vat return does not imply that a uniform rate of vat is fixed. this remains the responsibility of the member states and should remain so. however, the administrative costs associated with the collection of vat, in particular on the part of businesses, are reduced. the efficiency of vat collection should also be improved. the information obligations of vat payers should be limited to the level necessary for the verification and collection of vat, and this in the same way throughout the eu. i am against a single rate of vat, but i supported the proposal for this directive because it makes it easier to do business in the european single market.
in writing. - council decision 2009/831/ec concerns the application of a reduced rate of tax in the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores to locally produced and consumed rum, liqueurs and wine distillates. the reason for adopting this decision was the fragmentation and weak mechanisation of local farms. the 75% tax advantage in question is intended to compensate for the additional costs incurred by operators due to the geographical specificities of madeira and the azores. the portuguese authorities responsible have requested an extension of the tax concession until 31 december 2020 due to the low production volumes and the absence of any breach of the integrity and the legal order of the european union. the validity of the extension of the authorisation is relevant until 1 july 2014, when the new european commission guidelines on regional aid for the period 2014[nbsp ] to 2020 will enter into force.
in writing. - what ? following the opening of the negotiations on readmission of persons between the european union and turkey in november 2002, the contracting parties will in future be required to readmit their own nationals as well as third-country nationals without residence permits and stateless persons. however, the conclusion of the agreement in question requires the consent of the european parliament in order to be compatible with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. turkey has now become a transit country for the flow of refugees and illegal migrants into the european union via the land route between turkey and greece. the turkish side made the signature of the treaty conditional on the european union's visa liberalisation measures. turkey has repeatedly delayed signing the agreement in question and is using illegal immigration as a means of putting pressure on the european union, whereas if the agreement were to enter into force, both parties would benefit from it in the form of a better ability to counter trafficking in human beings and cross-border crime.
in writing. - what ? the rail sector is losing market share compared to other modes of transport and therefore needs to re-establish itself as a reliable and safe mode of passenger transport. the liberalisation of the railway sector will allow a healthy competitive environment to be created in this sector and thus increase the level of services provided. the proposal allows the opening of the rail passenger market and sets new rules with an emphasis on maintaining structures and is compatible with the internal market. the performance of the railway sector is weakened by the weak responsiveness of infrastructure managers, who are natural monopolies, and as a result they often fail to respond to market needs. member states must be able to choose the operator and organisation of their network, but also to revert at any time to a more integrated model. the revenues generated by the operation of the infrastructure should be invested in the sector. the measures taken to improve passenger rights are proving to be insufficient and it is envisaged to make the development of passenger rights services mandatory by 2020 in each member state. however, the opening of the market and increased competition must not have negative consequences for railway employees and their working and social conditions.
in writing. - what ? in the last ten years, we have had to deal with three railway legislative packages. these aimed at gradually opening up the markets of the member states and increasing the competitiveness and interoperability of rail transport. however, the share of rail transport compared to other modes of transport within the eu remains low. the fourth railway package therefore aims to increase the efficiency of rail transport markets, improve the sector's performance and create a single european railway area. the creation of the common market was aimed at reducing the cost of services to consumers, while maintaining a high level of quality of services available to all. liberalisation should therefore not be an end in itself but should be seen as a tool to create a more competitive sector with a high level of services. the opening of the market must therefore be accompanied by strict rules concerning, in particular, passenger rights.
in writing. - what ? rail passenger transport currently accounts for a very small share of total passenger transport in the european union, and investment in this sector could support employment growth as well as environmental protection. the problems in the railway sector should be addressed by strengthening the institution of competitive public procurement. the european commission is aiming to abolish the possibility of public procurement in rail passenger transport. the implementation of all the necessary changes and reorganisation of a complex system while maintaining the quality and safety of the services provided requires sufficient time, and it is therefore necessary to provide member states with sufficient time to implement the necessary changes. in order to maintain a high standard of employment protection, it is important that there is no unjustified redundancy in the event of a change of operator.
in writing. - what ? with increasing air pollution and the resulting increase in greenhouse gas emissions, the importance of rail transport is growing. the european commission estimates that by 2050, rail should provide more than 50%[nbsp ] of passenger and freight transport over short and medium distances. unfortunately, with more than 11 000 different national safety and interoperability regulations, the european rail system is neither efficient nor transparent. the report aims to modernise interoperability rules in response to new needs arising from the opening up of the market and the expected growth of the railway modal split, in particular by defining and clarifying existing rules more precisely, using technical specifications for interoperability, simplifying long and costly authorisations for rolling stock and creating a european register. all the proposals put forward by the european commission are designed to help companies reduce the time taken to market and to improve the position of the european rail sector on world markets.
it is a well-known fact that rail transport is one of the safest modes of transport in the eu. but if an accident occurs, the cost in lives, health, and property is pitifully high. in view of the rapid scientific and technical progress, i consider it necessary to update regularly the existing safety conditions for passengers, railway staff and other people who come into contact with rail transport in their professional or private lives. significant differences in safety standards persist in the european union, which negatively affect the functioning of european railways as a whole and undermine their competitiveness and attractiveness, especially for cross-border passengers. i therefore believe that there is a need to harmonise operating and minimum safety rules and i support the creation of a common regulatory framework for railway safety through harmonisation.
in writing. - the european commission expects rail transport to become increasingly important over the next decade. today, rail travel is the safest form of travel for passengers. accidents in the railway sector are rare, but when they do occur, they have catastrophic consequences for the number of victims, the environment and the reputation of rail transport as the safest form of transport. every railway undertaking entering the market and wishing to be part of the european network must apply for a safety certificate. the acquisition of the certificate in question is linked to a number of conditions that the undertaking must fulfil in order to comply with the relevant safety regulations. the certificate should be in two parts. after the end of the transitional period, the single valid certificate should be issued by the european railway agency following a process of cooperation with the national safety agencies.
in writing. - what ? the efficiency of rail transport is a major priority for the european union. however, railways need to improve their operations and the services they provide in order to catch up with other forms of transport. often, measures are geared to national interests rather than the needs of citizens. the european union agency for railways is responsible for providing technical support and improving the safety of the railway system. the role of the european railway agency should be increased in line with the interoperability and safety directives, while at the same time new tasks should be added to it, including support for standardisation. the agency should be able to delegate certain tasks to national safety authorities. achieving the set objectives will require improving the governance of the agency in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest, strengthening the board and assessing priorities, taking into account available resources.
in writing. - what ? the fourth railway package is also to include the repeal of council regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the opening of accounts of railway undertakings, due to its low use, as only 4 member states have used it since 2007. the regulation in question allows compensation to be granted to railway undertakings for liabilities which other undertakings in different sectors are not obliged to bear. these measures are intended to help railway undertakings to cope with the specific working conditions in the railway sector.
in writing. - what ? the growing importance of air transport also brings with it the challenge of not increasing accident rates and the associated fatal consequences for human life and the environment in direct proportion to the increasing volume of passengers carried. in order to increase safety in the air transport sector, a harmonised incident reporting system should be established within the european union, based on spontaneous reporting of incidents by individual airline employees. the new system will be based on a mandatory and voluntary basis, whereby individuals will report and describe incidents. in order to ensure the effectiveness of this system, the employees concerned will be protected from sanctions, except in cases of serious breaches of work discipline and negligence. in view of the challenges facing the aviation sector, the role of the aviation safety agency will be strengthened and new systems for data protection and incident reporting will be introduced. the introduction of new standards also provides for the creation of a culture of fairness and protection of employees from criminal prosecution by employers.
in writing. - what ? the eu's air accident investigation system is of a high standard. however, data collection and analysis activities on such accidents need to be strengthened. while accident investigation consists of an analysis of the causes of an accident, the purpose of the occurrence reporting system is to identify incidents that could have contributed to the disaster if they had not been detected and[nbsp]corrective measures taken. however, the collection of such data is not simple, as the system is based on spontaneous reporting of events by aviation industry employees. however, these employees could be threatened with sanctions by the airlines their employers if they report such incidents. it is therefore necessary to ensure the creation of a genuine and uniform environment of trust, a so-called justice culture. the functioning of such a system requires not only the protection of the reporting person himself but also the protection of any person concerned by the reported event, which will allow for confidence-building. employees who have been punished in the past on the basis of a report will be able to use the appeal mechanism in the future.
road traffic accidents represent incalculable costs and the figures for 2012 are alarming, with some 28 000 people killed and more than 1.5 million injured on the roads of the european union. the european parliament has long been working towards a system that would mitigate the consequences of road accidents, in particular saving lives, and be accessible to every driver. the introduction of the 112 e-call system in all new vehicles by 2015 will certainly contribute to[nbsp]building the necessary infrastructure for immediate operational assistance. i call for it not to be confined to passenger cars but to be extended to other modes of transport in the interests of the protection of the life and health of road users. the protection of personal data is a major issue throughout the system, and both legislatively and technically it must be treated in such a way as to ensure the required level of privacy protection and to take measures to prevent tracking and misuse.
i welcome the proposal for a regulation introducing an on-board emergency call to 112 via the so-called e-call system. in serious traffic accidents, every minute, even every second, until the arrival of the emergency services is a golden opportunity for the injured. the introduction of e-call is a way of informing emergency medical services immediately of an accident and of being able to navigate to the exact scene of the accident in a timely manner, thus helping to prevent unnecessary loss of life on european roads. naturally, for a system to be truly functional and reliable, its minimum attributes must be standardised, interoperable and accessible to all across the eu. i hope that citizens will be able to start using this system in the near future, which will contribute to their safety and road transport.
in writing. - what ? with the development of new technologies at the beginning of the 21st century, the european commission included the creation of a harmonised pan-european ecall service as one of the priorities of the e-safety initiative. the european commission is working to have an ecall system fitted to every new car by 2015 that will dial the single european emergency number in the event of a serious accident. the system allows emergency calls to be made even if injured passengers are unable to speak to the security forces by establishing a connection to the nearest public security reception. the european commission expects that, once installed in cars, the system would reduce road fatalities by up to 50% in rural areas and by 60% in congested areas. the faster arrival of rescue teams has a profound effect on the lives of people who are struggling.
in writing. - what ? although we do our best to reduce the number of accidents and to mitigate the consequences of them, we do not always succeed. the ecall system is an important structure that deals with the safety of road users. i believe that the automatic emergency call to the 112 line, which is implemented through the on-board system, will save many lives. the european commission has been working on ecall since 2005. it originally intended to introduce this system on a voluntary basis, but this approach failed. in view of the number of accidents on european roads, i consider it inappropriate that ecall is currently only present in approximately 7% of vehicles. let's face it, few people do anything voluntarily, even when it's for their own safety. that is why we adopted by a large majority the joint report of the committees on ecall in 2012, on promoting the introduction of the system in all vehicles, regardless of brand. as it is a free public emergency call service, it will benefit all drivers in europe. the ecall system should be available at all times, at least as a back-up. the only aspect that needs to be examined in more detail is, in my view, the protection of personal data. they must not be misused in any way and the owner of the ecall must feel safe in his vehicle in all respects.
in writing. - what ? the health of the citizens of the member states is one of the european union's main priorities. the objective of the european union health programme 2014-2020 is to support and add value to the existing health policies of the member states in order to maintain a high level of health for citizens of the european union and to reduce inequalities between member states by promoting innovation in health, the sustainability of healthcare systems and protection against serious cross-border health threats. the financial envelope of the programme is eur 450 million. the way in which funding is allocated between the different objectives of the programme will depend on the projects submitted.
in writing. - what ? the objective of the connecting europe facility is to define guidelines for the deployment of digital infrastructures and broadband networks. the european parliament considers the completion of the digital single market to be a major priority for the future, which will not be possible without significant investment in high-speed and efficient internet networks. the reduction of the planned high budget to eur 1 billion will significantly disrupt the plans in the sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital broadband in the member states and in the union as a whole. cross-border access to infrastructure can bring high added value to the european union in the future.
in writing. - what ? the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites is very important for all users, including those with functional limitations. it is a way of quickly accessing important information needed for the daily lives of millions of citizens of the european union. public sector bodies, but also any other bodies providing essential information and services to the public, must take full responsibility for the quality and safety of the services provided. the european union is making a considerable effort to improve the accessibility of its institutions through various programmes. the problem is that member states have different approaches to the availability and level of information and services available through public websites. access to information is just one of the many barriers faced by people with disabilities in their daily lives. the main objective of the european commission is to improve monitoring and to set up national bodies to receive complaints from users, thus improving the existing system.
in writing. - what ? the economic and financial crisis has brought a great decline to the european economy. in order to overcome the crisis and restore confidence, it is important to maintain public investment and banks as the main source of long-term financing in the european union and not to return to excessive risk-taking as in the pre-crisis period. public investment is important in the recovery of the financial system and the european parliament insists on harmonising the evaluation of projects of public interest. without the necessary investments in infrastructure, research, development and innovation, the economy will not be able to recover. the european union cannot rely solely on banks and savings banks, but must find alternative sources of finance to complement the intermediation process offered by banks.
in writing. - the european union seeks to protect its citizens from all forms of discrimination and inequality. the period of economic and financial crisis has hit women the hardest, whose desperate financial situation can eventually lead to prostitution, another special group being young people. these two groups of people are often the targets of exploitation and discrimination on the grounds of gender. forced prostitution is one of the highest forms of physical abuse and sexual exploitation. prostitution and sexual exploitation are often linked to trafficking in women and girls, which involves trafficking in women and girls between member states of the european union, but also involves selling outside the european union. there are several approaches that are applied within member states, but legalization of prostitution has failed to prevent trafficking in human beings and the flourishing of organised crime in this area, following the experience of some member states. in the european union, the so-called nordic model also applies, where the offence is always committed by the person buying the sexual services and therefore does not ultimately criminalise the person engaging in prostitution.
in writing. - what ? the ever-increasing demands of society and growing competition pose major challenges for developing countries in the use and exploitation of natural resources. the extraction of natural resources is a major source of armed conflict in the world and also represents a huge burden on the environment. developing countries that choose to intensify their mining industry are also exposed to secondary factors of this decision, such as forced population displacement, growing social disparities in the region, and escalation of tensions. developing countries often lack the ready-made systems that require the necessary economic, environmental and social reforms, as well as labour law reforms, for multinational corporations to enter the local market.
in writing. a week ago, ukraine and europe were shocked by the brutality of the repression of the demonstrations on the kiev maidan. today, we mourn for the people who sacrificed their lives because they showed their civil courage and stood up for a more democratic and free ukraine. the ukraine we all want. i'd like to pay my respects to their memory. ukraine needs concrete support and assistance and i believe the union can provide it. we've been able to respond to the political developments of the last few days. but change is coming fast, and all the more so if we are to assist in a peaceful political transformation. the union must have a concrete plan for ukraine, based on a reform and democratic agenda. it should not be about gestures, but about clear and targeted aid, both humanitarian and economic. we must send a signal to the people of ukraine that we are ready to help fulfil their desire for a better functioning, prosperous and democratic ukraine. elections in ukraine will be held on 25 may, at the same time as the elections to the european parliament. i hope this day will be symbolic for ukraine's step towards the union.
in writing. colleagues, the situation in ukraine has developed dramatically indeed. it's a real revolution, and as we all know, revolution carries risks. the eu must therefore contribute first and foremost to the stability of the country. what does that mean in practical terms? try to avoid a possible negative scenario. in particular, to help the new representation set a precise timetable for the transition to a fully democratic regime. set the date for early presidential and parliamentary elections. furthermore, to stop the wave of political revenge and retaliation: it is unacceptable that radical forces seek to ban political parties, collective punishment of state officials, the return of the well-known selective justice. there must be no attacks on minorities, ethnic groups, or the right to use the russian language. the standard of human rights protection must not be lowered. finally, the economy: the eu can take dynamic steps to reform the ukrainian economy. and in this process, there should be well-known oligarchs, all of them, who have become rich through privatization and the redistribution of wealth since the 1990s and are now based in financial centers like london. coordinated efforts could also lead to a faster process of signing an agreement with the eu, but only with a new legitimate government.
we consider drones to be a modern technology, being developed by virtually all the developed countries of the world. it's a technology that's usable in civilian space. it can be used, for example, for traffic monitoring, for interventions, for emergencies, for floods or for fires. the technology also has applications in meteorology. the european union does not have a common army, it does not have a common armament, so we cannot influence the individual member states, which are themselves shaping their security policy and their defence concept. but if we want to be active and proactive in this area, we should strive for an international convention that would establish the conditions for the use and use of drones in military conflicts. and that, i think, is the only way we can go.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work, but above all for his openness and willingness to compromise. the report is broad and forward-looking, but there are parts of it that we can't agree with. the liberalization of access to drugs is unacceptable in the christian sense, but the question of euthanasia also raises serious moral problems. the commissioner has repeatedly stressed that the human rights situation in europe is not without problems. there's plenty of room for improvement here. obviously, the problem is the universal accessibility of the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. for example, is it not clear how to take account of fundamental rights when applying the anti-discrimination directives? it appears that we have not fully exploited the means of applying this existing mechanism to redress, but it is also debatable whether new mechanisms are really needed. it is regrettable that these annual reports do not focus on issues where europe really needs to pay attention to developments, be it access to justice, the right to privacy or the situation and legal status of national minorities. the question of double standards is also a problem: the acceding countries are obliged to respect the rights of national minorities, but the member states are not obliged to do so. thus, in the enlargement of the union, we see that after accession the situation of national minorities, instead of improving, has actually worsened. the so-called copenhagen dilemma must be solved sooner or later. the situation of national minorities cannot depend solely on the vague goodwill of the majority. however, the proposed copenhagen mechanism raises several concerns, including the real danger that human rights could easily become the victim of political battles. we expected more decisive progress from the member states in many areas and i am very pleased that the commissioner mentioned the directive on trafficking in human beings, which unfortunately some member states have not yet adopted.
the european union has established a core set of legislation whose primary objective is to guarantee respect for, and the protection and promotion of, fundamental rights, including through the establishment of the copenhagen criteria, the incorporation of articles 2, 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union, the charter of fundamental rights, the obligation to accede to the european convention on human rights and the corresponding national provisions of the laws of the member states. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the charter has transformed its values and principles into concrete and enforceable rights and has become legally binding on the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union as well as on the member states in the implementation of legislation. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the strengthening of mechanisms to ensure that the union's values as set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union are respected, protected and promoted, and for crisis management in the union and in the member states. and there is now a discussion on the creation of a new mechanism in which the commission, the council and the member states join parliament and the ngos. the commission also announced that it would like to strengthen the rule of law in the european union and could propose the use of a formal notice under article 7 (1) of the treaty on european union. you also mentioned the need to amend the treaties and announced that you would propose amendments to enable the organisation of the debate during the elections, including on the application of article 7, and to seek consensus on these proposals, which should aim to ensure that the european union's fundamental rights policy in the european union is based on clear rules and mechanisms, objective indicators and data, is transparent, fair and, in particular, firmly protects individual rights, democracy and the rule of law. as the rapporteur has already mentioned, many violations of fundamental rights still occur within the european union and in the member states, as is also clear from reports, whether annual or special, by the european commission, the fundamental rights agency, the council of europe and many other organisations. the bodies concerned noted the findings, in particular as regards the situation of violations of the rights of minorities, but also of the media and journalists, or the actions of the security forces, police and secret services. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr michel, for his very good cooperation and for the very good debate. and in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that we are three months away from elections for the next legislative term of the european parliament. i believe that the adoption of this report, as approved by the committee, will also be a good signal to our citizens in the member states in tomorrow's vote that it is the european parliament that will always seek to ensure that their fundamental rights are respected.
the demagogy of the so-called abortionists is endless. the charter of fundamental rights, in its section on human dignity, says that everyone has the right to life, and it mentions reproduction only when it prohibits the cloning of human beings. the report on human rights in the european union states that reproductive rights, including abortion, are an essential element of human dignity. in doing so, the european court of justice confirmed that the unborn human fetus also has dignity and integrity. the charter of fundamental rights is meant to protect this dignity. defending abortion by reference to the charter is not just an arbitrary misinterpretation. i personally reject this demagogy. the report also proposes to increase the powers of the european commission and the fundamental rights agency to intervene in the internal affairs of the member states. this would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, which is one of the main pillars of the european project. it is to subsidiarity that we owe the delicate balance of power and responsibility. violation of this would lead to a loss of legitimacy and would strengthen the rise of radical nationalism in the member states. therefore, we should categorically reject such proposals.
this year's resolution again draws attention to a number of problems in the protection of fundamental rights. it is important that we talk about the shortcomings within the union and that we can correct the errors that are revealed as soon as possible. it doesn't matter how, by what means, we try to improve the situation. in assessing respect for fundamental rights, the union should follow the principles and values enshrined in the treaties, stressing that our community is a community of values and that this is at the heart of integration. all members of the community of values are expected to fulfil their obligations to guarantee fundamental rights and freedoms. this applies to the eu institutions as well as to the member states. the evaluation of member states should focus on the appropriate use of mechanisms that already exist. the examination and assessment of member states in terms of the rule of law is purely objective and applies to all member states and can be carried out on the basis of uniform criteria, both now and in the future. the aim of all the mechanisms at the lower level should be to guarantee the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities is also listed in article 2 of the treaty on european union. in this area, europe's national, ethnic, linguistic and cultural diversity will not be fully realised until adequate, comprehensive eu legislation is in place to promote the protection of the fundamental rights of historical and linguistic minorities. guarantees formulated at union level can make it easier to eliminate discrimination against national minorities within member states. although the report was produced in relation to the year 2012, it has been a year since the eu declared the year of eu citizens, signalling that eu citizenship has also provided opportunities. eu citizens will only be able to enjoy their fundamental rights and the benefits of free movement if the principle of equal treatment is fully applied to them in all member states.
the common european area requires the establishment of a well-defined, effective cooperation between the security and judicial services in the prosecution of migrant offenders. the 2002 framework decision on the european arrest warrant provides for mutual recognition of acts on the basis of mutual trust. the european commission's reports on the implementation of the framework decision identify a number of problems complicating the functioning of this system. it will therefore be necessary for the commission to prepare a set of legislative measures addressing the identified shortcomings of the practical application of the european arrest warrant. in doing so, it should also draw on analyses of unenforced european arrest warrants, which indicate where the current mechanisms are fundamentally ineffective and inefficient, in addition to the findings contained in its reports.
i would like to remind you in this discussion that it was venezuelan president hugo chávez who said that -- and i quote -- "the way to a new, better world is not capitalism, that way is socialism". unfortunately, it was the president of the european council and the president of the commission who, on the occasion of chávez's death, highlighted the social development of venezuela. after 14 years of socialist rule, venezuela's economy is collapsing and society is facing waves of social unrest that the government is brutally suppressing or at least tolerating escalating violence. this is the true face of socialism. freedom of speech, thought and assembly are suppressed. we know this from before the berlin wall came down.
the protests in venezuela prove that a regime built on authoritarian principles cannot last forever. violence against its own citizens, their enslavement, imprisonment and torture, violations of human rights and civil liberties, corruption and pervasive violence are not the hallmarks of a permanently prosperous state. venezuela is changing. it is being changed by people who see no other option but to take to the streets and stand up to a senseless regime. the number of casualties is increasing, and the chances of keeping the country at peace are diminishing. this violence must end. those responsible must be brought to justice and those wrongfully imprisoned must be released. the development in maduro's venezuela has hit rock bottom economically, socially, but also morally and humanly. you have to bounce back from it. venezuela needs new democratic elections. not another experiment.
a well-thought-out, well-organised policy call can be an effective tool for regulating the level of relations with third countries. moldova, like ukraine, is one of the countries for which the european union had already prepared an offer of visa facilitation in november last year, in view of their progress in reforming the institutional and political environment with a clear european perspective. despite the postponement of the planned signing of the association agreement by the ukrainian president yanukovych, ukrainian society has demonstrated its determination to continue developing relations with the european union more intensively by exerting strong pressure on the country's political leadership. i am convinced that we should appreciate the trust of the ukrainian people, who see us as a decent partner in the common european space, and very quickly adjust the visa regime with ukraine as we are doing today with moldova.
in writing. - what ? the single european sales law is an important piece of legislation for the citizens of the european union, as demonstrated by the years of preparation. european firms will be able to trade much more easily in other member states thanks to the provisions of the common rules for cross-border sales which will be used as an alternative to the national rules already in place. the common european sales law is a set of european rules for cross-border trade, based on the principle of voluntariness. the main objective of this regulation is to put the business environment and the internal market back in motion by removing trade barriers arising from national contract law. european consumers and traders will be able to exploit the full potential of the internal market. consumers can benefit from the high standard of consumer protection system offered by this new law.
the statistics on the effects of smoking are alarming and cannot be ignored. smoking kills around 700 000 people a year in the eu, and up to 70% of smokers start smoking before reaching adulthood. an even more alarming number is the number of children under 15 who smoke. it is therefore time to tighten tobacco guidelines and ban cigarette flavourings and other additives such as vitamins altogether, and to introduce stronger health warnings on tobacco products to discourage young people from smoking. while tobacco companies will certainly continue to push for the relaxation of eu directives, we must be firm in this, with people's health and lives in mind. i supported the report because it also introduces a number of improvements on traceability and security aimed at combating illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. - what ? the european union has a longstanding commitment to combating the negative effects of smoking and the harmful consequences of the use of tobacco products. despite the enormous efforts of the european union and the ban on smoking in public places, the consumption of tobacco products is increasing, especially among young people. tobacco companies are moving forward with sophistication, offering people a number of visual and other enhancements to current products, resulting in 37[nbsp ]% of tobacco product use by children aged 11 to 15 years. the european commission considers prevention of smoking, especially among adolescents, to be one of its main objectives for the future. the attractiveness of tobacco and tobacco products plays a very important role in their consumption and subsequent addiction, and the european commission is therefore continuing to increase the proportion of health warnings on the packaging of individual tobacco products.
in writing. - what ? our main objective in drafting the directive was to discourage young people from smoking. young people and teenagers alike are used to seeing something fashionable in cigarettes and smoking and want to be as close as possible to their peers. in the past few years, it has become evident that tobacco companies have come to realize this fact. cigarette packs with attractive designs and colors have flooded the market. but the tobacco campaign did not stop at the packaging. the various flavours that have misled smokers about the amount of harmful substances contained in cigarettes should be properly regulated by the new tobacco products directive. i am very pleased that, after several months of work on this directive, the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed on a compromise wording for the final text. i think that the development of a so-called blacklist of additives with carcinogenic and toxic effects is a great step towards banning their use in cigarette manufacturing. on the other hand, additives which are necessary in the production process itself, such as sugar, should be allowed. a compromise without some concessions on our part would not be called a compromise. i therefore support, for example, the amendment of the original proposal for a total ban on slim cigarettes. they will continue to be available on the market, but in no case in a package resembling lipstick or a perfume box.
in writing. - what ? prostitution and exploitation of women and girls are global in nature. no eu member state can honestly claim to be free of this problem. i regret to say that more and more women and girls are being trafficked. girls and women in dire financial situations are the most likely target group of this notorious organised crime. despite the continued practice of the oldest craft in human history, we can see that there are countries where, after the introduction of apparently successful legislation, the high percentage of women practising this profession has declined significantly. i therefore think it is logical to take inspiration from countries such as sweden and norway, which have pioneered a new approach to prostitution and introduced the already well-known nordic model of combating the exploitation of women. i stand by the fact that advocating for the legalization of prostitution is not the right thing to do. prostitution and the trade in white meat are closely linked. the only way to improve the living conditions of women is therefore to combat both phenomena. we cannot tolerate the practices of people who treat women's bodies as commodities. every human being has the right to dignity and the ones who should be punished are those who take advantage of the poor situation of women, not women who are forced into prostitution for the most part.
for more than 20 years, the solvit internet network has been ensuring the free movement of goods, services and capital for the people of the eu. although the single market has succeeded in expanding trade within the eu and providing consumers with more favourable goods and services, we often see crossborder disputes between citizens or businesses arising from the incorrect or inaccurate application of the single market rules. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the present times demand a more efficient and better functioning of the solvit internet network. while the report notes that the solvit network is developing in a positive direction, i believe it is essential that the european union and the member states take measures to ensure that individuals and companies are not only better informed about their rights in the single market and the possibilities of assistance in solving their cross-border problems, but also have access to the solvit network for all equally.
in writing. - what ? the solvit network involves all the administrative systems of all the member states of the european union. the main task of the solvit internet network is to find solutions to problems arising from the incorrect application of the internal market rules of the european union by member states as quickly as possible and without legal proceedings. the european commission has presented a programme to improve the functioning of the solvit network and a your europe action plan to improve the accessibility and quality of information on european union rights in the single market and thus to improve citizens' awareness. during its 10 years of existence, solvit has proven to be a successful project with tangible results. as a further step in the development of the solvit network, the solvit centres in the member states should be empowered to refer findings of non-compliance with single market legislation to the european commission. to realise the full potential of the single market in the future, the solvit network needs to constantly evolve and improve its system of operation.
in writing. - the free solvit system is a public service to eu citizens. it helps them to solve their legal problem concerning rights and freedoms in the internal market quickly and efficiently. among all the advantages, i would highlight above all the informal nature of the procedure and the almost 90% success rate in addressing non-compliance with eu internal market legislation. solvit has provided citizens with a valuable tool to enforce their rights in situations where a member state has incorrectly transposed european legislation into national law. this is most often the case in the area of workers' rights, social security and pension rights. unfortunately, public awareness of solvit remains low. one of the tasks of solvit should also be to increase its visibility among citizens. by removing the various inconsistencies in eu and member state law, we will achieve a better functioning of the internal market for the benefit of eu citizens. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - what ? one of the primary objectives of the european integration process was to create an area of freedom, security and justice. the adoption of this directive is a step in the right direction, given the state of play of judicial cooperation in terms of guaranteeing security and protection of fundamental rights. the introduction of the european investigation order will increase the use of such a tool by competent authorities in practice. the european union needs to establish a comprehensive system to replace all existing instruments in this area, including the framework decision on the european evidence order, covering as far as possible all types of evidence, including time limits for execution and minimising grounds for refusal. during the negotiations, it was possible to reach agreement on a number of contentious issues, in particular the conditions under which a european investigation order may be issued and the manner in which it is recognised by the executing member state.
in writing. - what ? the annexes to regulation (ec) no 539/2001 specify the countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. the lists in question must be updated, amended and reviewed at regular intervals and individually on the basis of various factors such as illegal immigration, public policy and security, and external relations with the european union. the european commission is proposing to lift the visa requirement for moldovan citizens. the european commission initiative builds on the progress made by moldova in adopting reforms in the institution building process. the visa liberalisation will bring tangible positive results for moldovan citizens when travelling to the schengen area and will facilitate and intensify people-to-people contacts.
in writing. - what ? the european commission's proposal on visa requirements aims to deepen relations between the european union and the countries concerned. the european commission proposes to lift the visa requirement for citizens of island states in the caribbean and the pacific. the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, the european commission has dealt responsibly and with due consideration with the assessment of third countries, which shows that the countries in question do not pose a threat to the european union in terms of illegal immigration, public policy and security. visa liberalisation is of great importance for the citizens of the pacific states, as it significantly reduces their costs of travelling to the schengen area.
i'm all for peaceful solutions, agreements and compromises. let the victims in ukraine be a lesson and a reminder to all politicians who seek new solutions for ukraine. the people of our eastern neighbour have suffered a great deal in their history and all means must be used to ensure that ukraine recovers economically and politically, that people live in peace and in adequate socioeconomic conditions, regardless of how they ultimately decide whether to be members of the eu's big group or to build their future as an independent state. i am happy to see that the free movement of persons, goods and services, as one of the european union's achievements, is also a matter of course for the people of ukraine. the negotiations in the european parliament and the subsequent resolutions also say that politicians must now show a sense of responsibility, exclude extrajudicial reprisals and do everything to establish citizens' trust in the policies and work of the institutions on the basis of respect for ethnic principles, identity and language.
in writing. - what ? a large part of the population in iraq continues to be affected by the serious economic and social problems that persist in the country as a result of serious political, security and economic problems. there is an increased violation of press and media freedom by the government and extremist groups. the measures taken by the iraqi government and the recent violent suppression of sunni protests have contributed to the escalation of religious violence in the country. the iraqi government will have to take the necessary measures to ensure the security of all iraqis and to stop the bloodshed and the escalating religious conflict and to promote religious dialogue between sunni and shiite clerics.
in writing. - what ? there are still many violations of fundamental rights within the european union, as evidenced by reports from the european commission, the council of europe and many other documents. concerns were noted and expressed by the actors concerned, in particular as regards the situation of roma, migrants, asylum seekers, refugees, minorities, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender persons, the media and journalists, the conduct of the security forces, police and secret services, the investigations necessary to bring to justice and punish those responsible for human rights violations, the involvement of states in cases of torture and ill-treatment in third countries, the use of evidence so obtained, the conditions of detention and ill-treatment of detainees. following the 2011 report, this is the second annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the report is divided into two parts, the first of which is institutional, while the second consists of several chapters dealing with specific rights under the charter of fundamental rights. these chapters include minority rights, anti-discrimination, roma issues, lgbt rights and data protection. the institutional part emphasises that fundamental rights are part of the primary law of the european union and as such should be protected through the various instruments currently provided for in the treaties.
in writing. - what ? the european arrest warrant, when put into practice, has acted as a perfect example of mutual recognition in the field of justice and police control. the conditions for its application are rather strict and it should only be applied in the case of serious crime. the european arrest warrant acts as a very useful tool in the pursuit of justice across borders and acts as a deterrent to criminals committing offences. however, this instrument also has shortcomings such as the proportionality check on the basis of all relevant facts and[nbsp]circumstances in order to prevent the issuing of a european arrest warrant in relation to less serious offences or the unreadiness of a specific case for a trial, as well as the right to an effective remedy in the form of an appeal against the issuing of an arrest warrant and the right to compensation in the event of an erroneous arrest warrant. in future, the offences covered by the warrant should also be clearly defined.
in writing. - what ? the application of the european arrest warrant in the area of freedom, security and justice has considerably simplified and, in particular, accelerated the surrender of persons in criminal proceedings. moreover, its very introduction has a preventive effect on potential offenders, since it increases the likelihood that the offender will be apprehended in any member state and subsequently tried and punished. however, in the rule of law, it is necessary to ensure, in the interests of justice, respect for fundamental human and procedural rights, as well as the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality deriving from eu law. since criminal law significantly interferes with the rights of individuals, there is a need to respond urgently to the shortcomings identified so far in the european arrest warrant. these include, in particular, the lack of guarantees for the rights of suspects and accused persons, the absence or imprecise definition of certain basic concepts, and the provision of effective judicial oversight of overall enforcement. i therefore support the request that the commission submit legislative proposals to address the shortcomings identified so far.
in writing. - what ? organized crime is now present in many countries and is far from legal standards, which is why the european arrest warrant needs to be revised. on the one hand, the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons are not respected, the rights of detention are not respected, on the other hand, there is a need to speed up and simplify the procedure for bringing suspects and accused persons to justice. the european arrest warrant should provide a more effective mechanism to ensure that persons seeking to escape justice do not take advantage of open borders. the speed and[nbsp ]simplification of the process of bringing persons to justice will certainly also contribute to confidence in the judiciary and criminal prosecution bodies in the individual member states.
in writing. - what ? the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy is, inter alia, improving the position and role of women in fisheries, as well as their working, economic and cultural conditions in the fisheries sector. women undoubtedly play an important role in the fishing industry, but there is little mention of equal treatment for men and women. women's work in the fisheries sector often complements men's work, for example in an economic context where they are generally not paid a fixed wage or receive social benefits. the new european fisheries policy should aim to achieve the objectives of equality and historical and social recognition of women's participation in the fisheries sector.
i supported the report because i believe that a european framework is needed to ensure a level playing field for rights holders, consumers, manufacturers and importers of equipment, and service providers throughout the union. i understand that private copying fees are a very important source of income for the cultural sector, that authors of literary and artistic works, singers, musicians and actors claim their rights in accordance with copyright legislation. but i cannot agree to the continued acceptance of the diversity of national systems for charging for private copying. i expect the commission to put pressure on the member states to agree on a common definition of the private copying levy. i also expect that there will be a significant improvement in the awareness of citizens and a simplification of the procedures for setting fees.
in writing. - what ? the european union has a rich history and culture that forms the basis of european identity even in the digital age. the european union is working towards fair remuneration for creators and artists, but the digital market has not yet fulfilled its main objectives in the cultural sector. private digital copying has seen a great expansion in the 21st century. the current system does not take account of the dynamic development of the sector. the directive adopted in the field of reproduction of sound, visual and audiovisual works is outdated and does not reflect the dynamic developments in the field and the needs of consumers and creators. a more effective and up-to-date approach to the problem needs to be developed. the new legislation should balance the legitimate interests of both creators and consumers, and also take into account the wide differences that currently exist at national legislative level. member states should use a proportion of the funding received from private copying revenues to support creative activity in all its forms.
for the efd group. in july 2012, the pilot phase of the european union and european investment bank project bond initiative was launched with the publication of regulation no 670.[nbsp ] the european investment bank has been the initiator of the joint activity use of project bonds to finance strategic trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications projects. the project bonds were also intended to finance innovation in meaningful technologies enhancing the union's competitiveness. the first issue of eu project bonds of eur 1.4 billion was intended to support the castor project, the construction of a large offshore gas storage facility in spain. however, in view of the low performance of this project, it appears necessary for the eib to provide more detailed information on its preparation, in particular in relation to the carrying out of geological studies and seismic risk analyses. according to the information available, the eib has so far approved project bond support mainly for energy and transport projects. however, in order to increase the eu's competitiveness, the information technology sector and the area of research, development and innovation should be supported in particular. i therefore think that the eib should also pay more attention to the usefulness and, in particular, the innovation potential of the projects supported by the bonds.
for the efd group. a large part of the report presented is devoted to social inequalities and discrimination against women caused by eu measures and policies. last week, a report comparing the level of pay between men and women in my country confirmed the fact that women are paid about 20% less than men for the same work. despite the union's stated efforts to eliminate wage discrimination against women, nothing changes in real life in this area. however, in addition to the above wage discrimination against men, women in eastern europe are even more discriminated against in their wages compared to women working for the same employers in the old member states of the union. in my country too, there are multinational chains such as tesco, billa, carrefour, lidl and so on. however, women working in the cashiers, warehouses or plants of these employers in the eu's common economic area receive only half the pay of their colleagues in germany, austria, belgium or the netherlands for the same work in the same companies. however, the price of a litre of milk, baby bread, electricity or hot water is the same as it is practically throughout the union thanks to the common economic area. so the same prices of goods as in the rich eu countries.
i would like to highlight one point in the report, the question of the wage gap, as the commissioner did, which is particularly topical given that the commission adopted recommendations on this last week. despite the long-term improvement in the trend, as the commissioner mentioned, the latest statistics available - many of which are still preliminary - are based on 2012 and show that the wage gap has increased by 0.2% over the last two years, i.e. compared to 2010, in terms of the eu average or the euro area average. for member states, the wage gap widened in 16 countries during this period. the 2012 parliament resolution on this issue emphasised that existing european law in this area is of low impact. the trend is not linear, it varies from situation to situation, and as we can see, regression, negative orientation is one of its characteristics. the commission's recommendations adopted last week are in line with parliament's decision, point in the right direction and are therefore welcome. what leaves something to be desired, however, is the nature of the material. since recommendations are not legally binding, they are not expected to be more effective than binding legislation. and millions of women are suffering because the legislation itself is not effective.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has changed the face of the european union. it has brought high unemployment and destabilised the social system in many member states. the most vulnerable members of any developed society are children and women. women are at a higher risk of job loss than men. women face reductions in the real value of their pensions and real wages and discrimination in pay. the european union is working towards equality between women and men through the strategy for equality between men and women 2010 2015. i consider the completion of the so-called barcelona goals in the areas of childcare, women's representation in the highest decision-making bodies of companies and violence against women to be a very significant step forward. it is very important to reflect in a broader context on the impact of the major economic and[nbsp]social reforms that have taken place in recent years in the member states and their impact on the social status of women and the decline in the quality of their professional lives. i think it is very important that we minimise the impact of the reforms that have been carried out, because many young girls and women have found themselves in a situation where they have difficulty accessing the labour market.
mr[nbsp ]president, i have been with ms[nbsp ]patrão neves and she is much better. there is a team there, a doctor is already there, and she is getting better by the minute. i hope there will be no serious findings later on. concerning my speech, i think i made a mistake: i wanted to speak on the report by véronique de[nbsp ]keyser, which may be the next one.
torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment constitute the worst form of violation of human rights, as they directly interfere with the physical and mental integrity of a person. despite an absolute ban, torture persists in many countries of the world, affecting millions of victims, including children. human rights have become an integral part of the eu's foreign policy and must therefore be taken into account in a coherent manner in the conduct of the union's other activities. declaratory sentences for torture are not enough. the union must actively engage in the establishment of effective mechanisms aimed at preventing and[nbsp]repressing torture and rehabilitation. as regards the issue of forced pregnancy, i would like to touch on this, and i call on the union to adopt a very sensitive and cautious approach, since the situation of the mother cannot be dealt with independently of her unborn child. i recall that, in accordance with its obligations under the charter, the union must not promote activities which lead to a violation of the fundamental right to life, which is inherent in both mother and child.
the european union's lax legislation creates a wide space for uncontrolled money movements. the events of the last days in ukraine, for example, have shown us that ukrainian oligarchs have been hiding their dirty money in dutch trusts. the current diverse national value-added tax mechanisms, which allow businesses to generate huge profits through interstate carousel trade, also provide a large space for theft from the state. therefore, the establishment of a central publicly available register of legal entities engaged in trade, as well as the disclosure of the owners of these companies, is a very important step that needs to be implemented as soon as possible. from this point of view, i think the solution proposed is a good step forward.
in writing. - what ? regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 lays down common rules for the production of statistics on inland waterway transport. the main objective of the report is to harmonise the definition of delegated and implementing powers conferred on the european commission in view of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and thus to ensure an improvement in the reporting obligation. the european commission is aware of the need to make the major changes in the inland waterway transport sector that are needed to make the sector's full contribution to the europe 2020 strategy. the necessary reforms are also important in view of the growing importance of inland waterway transport not only for the transport of goods but also for the transport of passengers in cities through which watercourses flow. data from water infrastructure statistics are needed to improve the situation and implement the necessary reforms. the review provides a unique opportunity to obtain the information in question.
in writing. - what ? the economic and financial crisis has also brought about, inter alia, the need to improve the quality of statistics transmitted by the member states of the european union on macroeconomic imbalances, as well as the prevention and correction of excessive imbalances within the european union. the early identification of macroeconomic imbalances is a very important factor in preventing economic difficulties. the logic of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure framework is to limit the sanctions applied to countries whose currency is the euro and to allocate the fines collected to the european stability mechanism.
in writing. - the nagoya protocol was adopted at the international summit on biological diversity held on 29 october 2010 in japan. the main objective of this convention is to ensure fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources and thereby contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. key elements of the protocol include a commitment by the parties to[nbsp]sharing the benefits arising from the exploitation and subsequent use of genetic resources, as well as a transparent and effective system of supervision and control in conjunction with judicial cooperation. the nagoya protocol provides greater legal certainty and transparency to the parties for providers as well as users of genetic resources. it is therefore necessary for the european union and all its member states to ratify it as soon as possible. the european union is a dominant player in the use of genetic resources and a sustainable approach to this area is very important, both from the point of view of research centres and the industries that use them.
in writing. - what ? the economic and financial crisis has also affected the world trade sector to a considerable extent. the globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide necessary and indispensable support to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade sector. on 28 january 2014, the european commission approved the mobilisation of the fund for the benefit of spanish workers made redundant in 198 enterprises. eur 840 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund is to be used for the reintegration of 560 staff. the spanish textile industry is currently facing changing market conditions due to global competition, in particular from china. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, as well as the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, appliances and equipment, including the purchase, hire or leasing of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, appliances and equipment.
both committees dealing with the proposed regulations on the production of plant reproductive material rejected it. the committee on agriculture adopted the negative opinion by an overwhelming majority. the environment committee even unanimously rejected the commission's proposal. it is clear that the commission has failed to convince and allay the concerns of citizens and small farmers about the negative impact of this proposal on the agricultural sector, in particular on those producers who strive to grow quality and healthy food and who also care about biodiversity and environmental protection in europe. i share these concerns and have therefore supported parliament's rejection.
in writing. - the commission's proposal for a regulation on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material does not meet the expectations of meps, farmers and many citizens. in many respects, it fails to meet its stated objectives, does not take into account the specificities of the member states, the needs of producers and consumers, and does not ensure sufficient environmental protection. i do not agree with the commission's approach of replacing the current directives with a directly applicable regulation, which will, moreover, be complemented by a large number of delegated acts. delegated acts, as we all know, give the commission extensive powers and therefore member states would lose the possibility to choose their own way of achieving the objective set, as is hitherto possible in the context of the current directives. for the reasons i have given, i voted against the adoption of this proposal for a regulation on seeds.
in writing. - the regulation in question lays down the procedures which must be put in place in order to successfully implement the trade aspects of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of serbia. the amendments proposed by the european commission and the council aim to ensure consistency with the omnibus i and ii packages, thereby bringing the rules in the field of trade policy into line with the regime of the new system of delegated and implementing acts introduced by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
the financial crisis has exposed the shortcomings of the existing supervision of financial institutions. it also reminded us that the european economy is already so interconnected that the failure of one article immediately translates into the whole financial market. i am not an expert on banking, insurance or the stock market, but i believe that the proposed mechanism for assessing systemic risks in this sector will prevent a future crisis scenario that has affected millions of businesses and households. i therefore supported the motion.
in writing. - what ? the fight against money laundering and terrorism is a priority for the european union and requires billions of euros from the budget every year. the european union aims in the near future to make the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing more effective and tougher by increasing the transparency of all types of crossborder and[nbsp]domestic transfers of funds. it is essential that the competent national authorities designated for the enforcement of money laundering law have easier access to basic information on the principal transferring funds. one way of combating money laundering is to require payment service providers to record information on the payer and the payee when making transfers. among other things, strengthening the position of financial service providers is also part of the new and updated recommendations of the financial action task force. every year, huge damage is done to the economy due to the lack of protection of financial flows from being misused by criminals and terrorists. if the european union is to succeed, it will have to put more emphasis in the future on the clarity and consistency of rules in individual member states, thus protecting european solidarity and the economy.
in the fight against money laundering, it is important to know who is the real owner of a business or a business transaction. only in this way can the legalization of proceeds of crime be prevented. businesses must be able to verify the true owners so that they can be held accountable for activities that could launder money tainted by crime. it is therefore necessary to improve the functioning of business registers in the member states to include beneficial ownership information. the interconnection of national registers is also important in view of the european internal market. i also supported the proposal given the negative experience in slovakia, where for years the owners of some companies suspected of money laundering have not been traced.
in writing. - what ? the misuse of the financial system for money laundering purposes causes huge losses to the european union's economy every year. the european union needs to make the operation of business registers more efficient and better, as identifying the beneficial owner of a business or a business transaction is crucial in the effort to prevent the financing of terrorism and the use of the financial system for money laundering. improving the functioning of trade registers should provide the necessary beneficial ownership information to help the competent authorities and[nbsp]the undertakings themselves to verify the beneficiaries of the profits from commercial transactions. the interconnection of national registers is of great importance for the exploitation of the necessary information in the conduct of cross-border business and for the interconnection of the internal market, which has not yet reached its full potential. the fight against money laundering should not forget about data protection and the fundamental rights of citizens of the european union.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and, like all decent eu citizens, i welcome the fact that the union has started to tighten the requirements for banks, financial institutions, auditors, accountants, tax and legal advisers in the area of suspicious financial transfers within the eu and from abroad. the damage caused to the economies of states and consequently to their citizens is a reason to introduce greater transparency of operations and transactions, as according to available un data, the amount of money laundering is around eur 330[nbsp ]billion[nbsp ]a year and represents about 3[nbsp ]% of global gdp. i agree[nbsp ]with the urgent need to establish a coordinated european approach by member states and to adopt effective preventive and repressive measures to combat this serious crime. the perpetrators and their accomplices must not escape their just punishment. i voted in favour of the draft money laundering directive and i believe that the money laundering directive will be finally adopted in the very near future in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure in cooperation with the council.
in writing. - what ? the scale of money laundering is enormous. the international monetary fund estimates that money laundering amounts to 5[nbsp]% of global gdp. therefore, any measure is welcome and should be encouraged. the adopted directive will certainly help the functioning of business registers in the member states, which will include information on beneficial ownership and help to identify the real profits of companies, especially in cross-border business transactions. funds derived from illegal activities are mostly used for terrorism, leading to loss of revenue for governments and impeding competition. they also adversely affect the smooth functioning of markets and disrupt development. the fight against money laundering must be a priority for the eu as a whole and for each member state, so that the conversion of proceeds from criminal activities into legitimate means through the financial system is not possible, or that such activities can be detected, eliminated and punished.
in writing. - the european union, through the european investment bank, seeks to support various investment projects outside the territory of the member states in order to meet the objectives of the european union's external policy. the new legislation will set out the overall scope and general conditions for the financing of the european investment bank under the european union guarantee for the years 2014 to 2020. the total ceiling for financing operations was increased to eur 30 million following the intervention of the european parliament, while additional funding was secured through backflows from previous european investment bank activities. under the new approach, the european union will significantly reduce its investments in the balkans, the eastern partnership countries and north africa. the european union must show zero tolerance towards activities carried out for illegal purposes, including money laundering, terrorist financing and tax fraud, which harm the financial interests of the european investment bank.
in writing. - the european union is a dominant player in the use of genetic resources and a sustainable approach to this area is very important, both from the point of view of research centres and the industries that use them. the regulation covers the use and protection of genetic resources available to states and over which they exercise sovereign rights and the application of traditional knowledge that will be accessible after the entry into force of the nagoya protocol. the rules that have been created serve to protect and preserve biodiversity. the main objective of the proposed regulation is to implement an international agreement into european union law. it is important to achieve full compliance with the nagoya protocol and this requires the strengthening of certain mechanisms. a clear legislative framework will bring benefits and benefits to all users, in particular to public and economic actors, as it will provide them with permanent access to genetic resources, but also legal certainty in their management.
in writing. - what ? studies examining the relationship between accidents and technical defects in cars have not reached a clear conclusion as to the impact of more frequent inspections on road safety. the rules on their frequency are therefore not justified. the obligation to carry out an annual vehicle maintenance check would lead to a disproportionate increase in financial costs for ordinary users. the average age of cars in slovakia is still more than 11 years. people would feel it really strongly. in these economically difficult times, it is therefore imperative that such changes be postponed.
in writing. - the european institutions are working to increase road safety and reduce the high accident rate through a package of vehicle health measures and to enforce new rules on vehicle health checks. before a manufacturer can place a new motor vehicle on the market, the vehicle in question will have to meet the relevant type-approval or individual approval requirements. these requirements shall ensure a sufficient level of safety and environmental standards. once these conditions have been met, each member state will have to register the vehicle in question without exception, and the certificate issued will serve as an official authorisation for the use of the vehicle on public roads within the european union. the new proposal aims to define in more detail the place of registration of vehicles and to introduce the institution of withdrawal or total cancellation of the registration certificate. through the deregistration institute, the european commission wants to reduce the number of vehicles that endanger road safety and traffic flow.
in writing. - what ? the deterioration of road safety on the roads in the european union is a serious problem that needs to be addressed urgently. the current directives in force no longer sufficiently cover the sector and its dynamic development. the establishment of new regulations and rules on the admissibility of new vehicles to the market is a step forward, but road safety itself depends on the capabilities and behaviour of road users and it is therefore important to deepen the education, training and enforcement of road users' rules. the role of the responsible authorities should therefore be to create conditions for road users which take account of human error and misconduct on the road.
in writing. - the european commission proposes to amend regulation no 91/2003 in order to simplify the existing rules. the changes concern in particular the concept of simplified reporting, which has placed an undue burden on the member states of the european union and on respondents, but has not produced the necessary results and significantly improved the quality of data on rail passenger and freight transport. the european commission must ensure that there is no double collection of statistical data, as for example with accident data collected by the european railway agency. the existing statistics should be extended to include new data classes in the future.
in writing. - what ? it is well known that the widely recognised benefits of electronic procurement have led several member states to require the submission of electronic invoices for public procurement in the whole or in certain parts of the public sector. electronic invoicing and support for electronic procurement are tools that need to be modernised and used as a step-by-step approach to paperless public administration. the digital sector is currently advancing at a rapid pace and is threatened by market fragmentation due to the high number of national e-invoicing regulations. the different technical solutions of the member states continue to exacerbate the interoperability problem. the large number of different requirements, standards and information networks are currently too complex for businesses and lead to legal uncertainty, as businesses cannot rely on the fact that an invoice will be accepted in another member state.
in writing. - what ? the european investment bank's main task is to support the strategic short- and long-term objectives of the european union, and its shareholders are the 28 member states of the european union. the european investment bank is the largest multilateral borrower and lender, providing finance and expertise for investment projects that help the european union achieve its stated objectives. the european parliament shall examine each year the banking activities of the european investment bank on the basis of the available financial and statistical reports. however, the audit shows that the volume of loans signed is below existing possibilities and that in some member states there are no projects that meet the criteria for financing through the european investment bank. the european investment bank should in future review its own resources policy and actively seek out projects that could be supported, thus promoting projects and sustainable development in the member states of the european union. the european investment bank's cooperation with intermediaries with negative records is also in question.
the report by mrs zuber, the portuguese member of parliament, on equality between women and men in the european union for 2012, which is being debated today, is another in a series of initiatives against life, the family and motherhood, and i could not therefore support it. this report understands women's equality as equality and ignores the life choices of many women mothers. to say that a woman is inferior and discriminated against when she chooses to prioritize childcare over her career is an insult to every woman. of course, in a just society, women and men must be guaranteed equal opportunities that reflect their individual capabilities, and this cannot be achieved by quotas or by mandatory gender training of children in schools. and a separate chapter is the demand to ensure women's right to terminate a pregnancy, another of the attempts to make abortion a human right.
in writing. - what ? the economic and financial crisis has changed the face of the european union. it has brought high unemployment and destabilised the social system in many member states. the most vulnerable members of any developed society are children and women. women are at a higher risk of job loss than men. women face reductions in the real value of their pensions and real wages and discrimination in pay. the european union is working towards gender equality through the gender equality strategy 2010-2015. complementing the barcelona objectives on childcare, women's representation in the highest decision-making bodies of companies and violence against women is a very important step forward. it is important to reflect in a broader context on the impact of the major economic and social reforms undertaken in recent years in the member states and their impact on the social status of women and the decline in the quality of their professional lives. minimising the effects of reforms will be one of the main tasks for the european institutions in the future.
in writing. - since 2012, the number of unemployed people in the eu has been rising steadily, affecting women more than men, often the victims of the economic situation. uncertain employment, reduced wages and job losses often put them at a social disadvantage, and the livelihood of their families is threatened. the entry of young women into the labour market is also uncertain. skilled and intellectual women try to find jobs abroad in order to make a better living. the migration of young people leads to the ageing of a region, to economic decline. monitoring the 'youth guarantee' programme would ensure more effective and flexible progress in the member states in terms of the access of young people, including young women, to the labour market. within the family, women usually have the responsibility of caring for children as well as for the elderly. unfortunately, the social benefits that come with it don't provide a fraction of the livelihood. affordable care solutions that improve women's employability are needed. unfortunately, women's underrepresentation is still a problem in some areas of employment and in political representation. i agree that women's representation is important in these areas and that political parties have a key role to play in encouraging women's active and passive participation in elections. i voted in favour of the report because of the above.
in writing. - what ? the 2014 gender equality report highlights the many problems caused by the existence of gender inequalities. it also seeks to highlight the effects of austerity measures and the economic crisis and their negative impact on equality between women and men. i believe that a report of such political significance deserves a wider public debate. by rejecting the report, we have only confirmed the efforts of some member states to divert attention from the consequences of austerity measures imposed on women during the crisis by several eu governments. on the other hand, i really don't understand how anyone can vote against a report on promoting equality, combating violence against women, improving business conditions, just because it mentions promoting women's reproductive and sexual rights. the report does, however, list problems that have a real and daily impact on the lives of the female population living in the european area. the demonization of the news known as estrela, lunáček and this time zuber is incomprehensible from my point of view. but there is one thing we cannot deny. every human being, without distinction, has the right to a life of dignity and to the pursuit of happiness. for these reasons, i disagree with the final vote and the associated negative attitudes towards women and their overall position in society.
in writing. - the european union recognises the great importance of the openness of its institutions to public scrutiny by citizens and ngos. transparency is a very important factor for a modern and democratically functioning society. public access to documents is a fundamental right of its citizens. however, some institutions continue to hide behind various exceptions, which do not give a positive image of their functioning in the eyes of the citizens of the european union. the european commission must establish clear and understandable criteria for the classification of documents at european union level. just as the european union requires its citizens to properly apply and comply with current legislation in force, so too should its institutions, in particular regulation no [nbsp ]1049/2001 on public access to documents.
in writing. - what ? public affairs in a democratic and rule of law state should be conducted transparently under the supervision of citizens in order to prevent abuse of power, corruption, inaction of public institutions and other undesirable practices associated with unjustified secrecy. the public has a right to truthful information about the activities of public authorities, since without sufficient and timely information it is not possible to make the right choice of its representatives or to make informed decisions aimed at improving the overall functioning of public authorities. institutions and bodies should not forget that they are not created for their own sake, but for the citizens, because their legitimacy derives from them. for the reasons set out above, i supported the european parliament's report which critically assessed the current state of public access to documents in the years 2011-2013 and which calls for effective correction of the errors found.
madam president, i rise to congratulate the work of the committee on petitions. i would have liked this report to pay due tribute to the great success of the citizens' initiative 'one of us', on the implementation of union law and the protection of the human embryo. "one of us" was a european petition that carried a message of hope for the future of humanity because it asked for the protection of unborn life. i was the leader of the citizen mobilization in slovakia and i will always defend the slovak citizens who contributed massively to this petition. the citizens' initiative "one of us" on the protection of human embryos has gathered the largest number of supporters among all the initiatives launched today.
in writing. - what ? it is essential for the future of the european union that democratic principles continue to develop and that citizens' participation in decision-making is increased, and the european union has not become detached from its citizens. the enhancement of transparency and accountability will ensure full respect for european union law. it is vital that the european union regains the confidence of its citizens, which has been eroded by the outbreak of the economic and financial crisis. it is therefore understandable that this turbulent period, coupled with a weakening of confidence in institutions and the banking sector, also brought with it a relatively high number of petitions submitted by european citizens. in 2013, a very small number of petitions were considered, which is regrettable, and the european union should give them much more importance. objectively, the number of petitions more than doubled compared to 2012, and in 2013 the committee was also responsible for organising the election of the new ombudsman and carried out more activities than in the past. in 2013, the committee on petitions met 11 times and many petitioners and representatives of member states' authorities attended its meetings to provide their explanations in relation to the allegations in question.
in writing. - what ? the right of appeal and its application is an important right of eu citizens to draw the attention of the union institutions and the member states' authorities to specific problems arising from the implementation of european legislation. as the only directly elected institution in the eu legal system, the european parliament, through its committee on petitions, provides a transparent mechanism through which citizens can obtain an out-of-court remedy for their complaints, subject to the basic conditions laid down. in this context, i would like to thank all citizens who take an active interest in public affairs in the union and draw the attention of legislators, through their initiatives and through petitions, to the legal deficiencies in everyday practice. this feedback from citizens is of immense importance in creating better legislation for the benefit of the people. as regards the handling of petitions, the number of which is growing significantly year on year, amounting to almost 3[nbsp ]000 in 2013 alone, its speed depends on the nature and complexity of the case. i would stress that the european parliament's objective is to deliver within a reasonable time. in conclusion, i would like to express my satisfaction that petitions concerning disabled people are being dealt with as a matter of priority.
in writing. - i am convinced that every citizen of the union now has a sufficient set of rights, which not only benefit the 500 million europeans who can enjoy them, but also the eu economy as a whole. i supported the report because i believe that the right to petition is one of the [nbsp ]forms of direct democracy which allows citizens to express their views and to have a say in matters of public or other common interest which concern all eu citizens. although i cannot be entirely satisfied with the number of petitions filed and not dealt with in 2013, i am sure that the eu has taken the right path in terms of the right to petition, which can also help to rebuild trust in the union, which has also been weakened by the impact of the financial and economic crisis. in the context of strengthening the rights of european citizens, i consider it particularly important that petitions sent are properly and timely examined and that opinions are not sent by the competent authorities only when the petition authority grants a favourable opinion, but also in cases where it does not grant a favourable opinion, but that its opinion on the legality and appropriateness of its action is duly and[nbsp ]convincingly justified to the petitioner. i expect the committee on petitions to review the whole process of dealing with petitions and to give greater weight to inadmissible petitions in its work.
in writing. - what ? the european union is the second largest importer and producer of fruit and vegetables and the world's largest producer of flowers, onions and nuts. it is therefore important to clearly support the horticultural sector for the future, which represents 18%[nbsp ] of the european union's agricultural production. the european union must improve its fight against unfair trading practices and overcome the growing number of non-tariff barriers that make exports more difficult, if not impossible. in the future, it will be very important to encourage growers to join producer organisations, thereby supporting the bargaining power of the sector and contributing to increased investment that will help innovation, research and climate improvement. the ever-increasing demands and conveniences of consumers are significantly reducing profitability and increasing costs for businesses operating in the sector. the european commission must reduce the regulatory burden on businesses in the horticulture sector in the near future.
i would like to congratulate véronique de keyser on this report. i am pleased that the european parliament today clearly condemned sexual violence against women, rape, female genital mutilation, forced sterilisation, forced abortion and forced contraception, which are violations of human dignity. these inhuman practices are often used as a weapon of war in armed conflicts, including against minors. condemning forced sterilization and forced abortion before its time was not taken for granted in this parliament. for the first time, the european parliament, at my initiative, adopted a special resolution in 2012 on respect for fundamental human rights in the context of the forced abortion scandal in china.
in writing. - what ? the european union's established guidelines and their implementation in the fight against torture and other ill-treatment appear to be insufficient once again. a new initiative by member states and the establishment of rehabilitation centres for victims of torture is needed, as the world is increasingly confronted with the torture of children and child pornography. it is regrettable that efforts to enforce fundamental human, social, cultural and economic rights are often met with harsh repression, with the inevitable consequence of the loss of life of the poorest members of society. violence against women and children in developing countries has a significant impact on their social and economic inclusion and creates social divisions in society. european parliament delegations must step up their efforts and visit prisons and other places of detention more frequently where there is a justified suspicion of torture or ill-treatment of the accused. the european union, in cooperation with the united nations, plays a crucial role in the fight against torture worldwide and the principle of zero tolerance for torture and the promotion and protection of fundamental human rights must therefore be strengthened. the european commission must give greater support to regional organisations and mechanisms for the prevention of torture.
in writing. - what ? despite the fact that international law prohibits torture, we regret that in many countries torture is still tolerated, and even more disturbingly, in some countries torture is even part of the legal system. i personally consider torture in any form to be a crime and i am strongly in favour of the absolute and unequivocal prohibition of torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment in the [nbsp ] union. i am also sorry that the implementation of the eu guidelines on torture is still insufficient and that we still have many cases of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which take a heavy toll on millions of individuals and families. as europe is home to more than 400 000 people who have had a personal experience of torture and the impunity of the perpetrators persists, i expect the eu and its member states to take measures to ensure that victims are thoroughly investigated in their cases of torture and that perpetrators are brought to justice. in this context, i consider it of particular importance that the eu and its member states, in the context of torture and ill-treatment, pay increased attention to new and emerging forms of violence perpetrated against the most vulnerable groups, in particular women and children, via the internet.
in an age of electronicisation of both the public and private sectors, it is very difficult to ensure the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of their personal data. the free movement of persons, goods and services, as one of the benefits and rights of eu citizens, creates major difficulties for the protection of personal data of individuals, also due to the heterogeneous legislation in the member states. in my country, slovakia, we have stricter legislation than the european one, which protects the personal data of people, employees, patients, clients, etc. very effectively, but business and employers object because the cost of ensuring the protection of personal data has increased. it is therefore essential that personal data is only provided to the extent strictly necessary, that the rules on the protection of personal data are harmonised across the eu and that misuse of personal data is sanctioned.
a few months ago, a case broke out that made america synonymous with secret wiretapping, spying and unfair practices against its own allies. the incident also triggered a debate on data security and protection in europe. by the way, it was about time. there are some serious aspects to the debate. there are two principles that i think we should follow. first, the collection and processing of personal data must be of a sound nature, not unlimited and not without rules. second, trust but verify should apply to our partners as well. however, i do not think that the agreements with the usa, and in particular the ttip negotiations, should be called into question and used as a tool in this case. whatever our views on the partnership with the us and whatever our views on the importance of data sharing, these issues need to be separated. so let's focus on identifying our own problems as quickly as possible and being able to respond appropriately to them. we now have the opportunity to start the discussion and prepare modern legislation, including a digital habeas corpus, which will guarantee an additional level of security in the handling of data and will guarantee increased protection of personal data for our citizens.
, in writing. the european union has made a strong commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. emissions of all greenhouse gases are declining, but fluorinated gases have increased by 60%. products containing these and similar types of gases can have a lifespan of up to 50 years, and therefore we need further legislation to prevent further growth of these types of gases in the atmosphere. various sustainable alternatives are available almost today, and almost all new fluoride-based equipment can be replaced by other options. we therefore need to push for the phasing out of hfcs from the market. the current phase-out schedule should be tightened to ensure a feasible and cost-effective transition to sustainable alternatives. further research and development can not only provide new impetus but also ensure sustainable growth and innovation. experience with backfilling shows that the measure can achieve significant hfc emission reductions in a cost-effective manner in a short time. in order to ensure the most efficient recovery, recovery schemes should be established in all member states to ensure the recycling of such gases. in order to improve the level of compliance and enforcement, a maximum level of leakage loss should be set for each type of equipment and precautions should be taken to prevent leakage before it occurs.
rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the shadows and colleagues with whom i worked on this directive. thanks to them the text was enriched. i also appreciate the efforts of the lithuanian presidency to reach a good agreement. free movement of citizens is one of the core values of the european union. almost 60 years later, however, we still have to admit that there is no smooth free movement of workers in the union. according to commission statistics, 97[nbsp ]% of eu citizens do not move for work, while the other three freedoms are much more widely applicable, having in mind the free movement of capital, goods and services. what is the problem with the free movement of workers? why does the regulation in force not solve the situation? the problem is that in different member states, workers coming from other member states are still discriminated against and are facing unjustified obstacles. recognising the problems in this field, the commission decided to propose this piece of legislation in order to facilitate the free movement of union citizens by enforcing the existing regulation. we have to keep in mind that this directive deals only with european citizens. in the proposal, the commission uses the expression ‘migrant’ workers, which can be misinterpreted by extending it to third-country nationals. avoiding this, we have agreed with the council to use the term ‘union workers’ so that it is crystal clear that the directive is applicable only to union citizens. furthermore, this directive deals with discrimination based on nationality and residence and does not include other forms of discrimination. in addition, the scope of the directive is extended, in the same way as that of the regulation, to frontier workers (those who live in cross-border regions and only commute to work). it is also applied to seasonal workers. another new, core element in the directive is that it calls for closer and more intensive cooperation between national authorities both at national and european level. in order not to put an extra burden on the member states, they do not have to establish new bodies whose task is to coordinate or facilitate the free moment of workers. in addition, the member states can decide that more than one body will be in a charge of this issue. however, we found it essential to include in the text the idea that, if more than one body is responsible for free movement, there must be cooperation and coordination and it has to be clear who is in charge of coordination. finally, the essential element of this directive is citizens’ access to free, easily-understandable, comprehensive and up-to-date information and assistance wherever and whenever they need it. the european union is the biggest and most prosperous market of goods, services and capital. if we want it to be prosperous to its fullest extent, we have to ensure that all union workers have access to this huge european labour market and that every union worker is treated equally, no matter which member state he or she comes from.
the rapporteur. - i'd like to thank my colleagues who are still here at this late hour. a few comments on what was said in the debate: it is possible to quantify that the value created by those working in other member states far exceeds the expenditure that individual member states contribute to social benefits through benefits. i think it is important to clarify this again, and i thank commissioner andor for clarifying it. it is surprising on the one hand, not surprising on the other, but again, you find yourself wondering why, when the other three freedoms - the free flow of capital, the free flow of goods, the free flow of services - are not questioned by colleagues. and there are side effects to that. life is not black and white. likewise, free movement has side effects. and i was more concerned about the tens of thousands of children whose parents left them because they went to work in another member state. perhaps it is because some member states are questioning whether they are entitled to family allowances or whether they can study in their schools. for me, these abandoned children are a much bigger problem than the few tens of percent that each member state spends more on welfare. unfortunately, it's always easy to make a stranger into a scapegoat. but i think it's extremely dangerous, and i'm sure that sooner or later, colleagues will become aware of this. thank you very much. perhaps one last comment: we have received some amendments which neglect the principle of free movement. i'm asking my colleagues, after difficult negotiations, we have reached such a compromise. this compromise, this was the best compromise available. i urge you to support this compromise and reject the amendments.
russia's invasion of crimea is a relic of the soviet mentality. ukraine and crimea are a european matter and we bear responsibility for them. the ukrainian sovereignty has been violated and an aggressive russian invasion of crimea is underway. the so-called referendum is a desperate attempt to cement this situation. we must use all the political and diplomatic means at our disposal and use our own means, all of them, boldly and fearlessly. we need to really show that we are on ukraine's side and that we can prevent further escalation of tensions. it is also necessary to commend the government of yatsenyuk, which has taken a reasonable position and does not react to provocations. they should also be clearly assured that we fully support a democratic and free ukraine.
in writing. the current situation in ukraine would have seemed like the script for a new hollywood thriller just a few months ago. the action is picking up moment by moment, what seems unimaginable to us now may be a harsh reality tomorrow. ukraine is a country characterized by the term 'democratic transition', but after the latest news, i will look at this term forever differently. all this is happening at the doorstep of the european union. ukrainians have not even recovered from one revolution and now have another, not to mention the civil unrest that has resembled a civil war in the last days of the maidan. the golden nail of the program, of course, remains the sharpening of the dispute over russia, which under the pretext of protecting the russian population living in the southern part of ukraine allowed itself to occupy the crimean peninsula. protests continue to sweep the country, both anti-russian and pro-russian. anti-russian protesters in the southeast are demanding independence, so the partition of ukraine is also on the line. the eu is also actively involved in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. the only thing left to do is to hope for an early and diplomatic solution to the conflict, which can be helped by a firm but above all united eu position.
in writing. colleagues, what is happening in ukraine today is an attempt to change the geopolitical balance of power in europe. and not only that: the principles of post-war reorganization. it is not acceptable that minorities are again used and abused to change the borders between states. these methods led to the second world war and we must not accept them today at any cost. yes, it is our fault that we did not provide russia with security guarantees in the 1990s in the face of nato's reckless expansion. today, russia seeks to secure its own security by creating spheres of influence and annexing various territories. it's imperial expansion, and it's by exploiting its own minorities in neighboring countries. in the case of ukraine, it brought us to the brink of a military confrontation. but europe must not show weakness here, on the contrary, it must show strength. the weakness of the eu will not lead to de-escalation of the conflict, as some think, but to a feeling of russian strength and attempts to further expansion. we must make it clear within the eu that no minority policy in neighbouring countries can lead to a change of borders and that the eu will not support such a move anywhere in europe, but must be determined to prevent it by all means. otherwise, we risk war chaos throughout europe.
rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to clarify, as you have plenty of misleading information in your mailboxes, that amendment 64 is not an alternative resolution. it is the text that we successfully negotiated with the lithuanian presidency and which was adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs. i would like to ask you to support this text.
in writing. - pakistan has been marked by natural disasters that are damaging its economy and slowing its development, as evidenced by the drop in its human development index listing. social disparities in the country are widening due to the persistent dangers of floods and earthquakes. the country continues to have a problem of uneven feudal land ownership, with a small number of people owning nearly 40%[nbsp] of the land and others having difficult access to irrigation and other production facilities, which in rural areas fuels violence and spreads social instability. progressive reform in the areas of human rights and media freedom is of great importance for the development of pakistan. in the future, major reform of the education system and improvement in the status of women will also be needed, as society has not seen any improvement in the fight against domestic violence and crime. the european union expressed concern at pakistan's blasphemy laws, which often lead to the death penalty and are abused to fight political opponents. the pakistani authorities must take the necessary steps to comply with international commitments leading to improved working conditions and safety standards.
in writing. - what ? recent years have brought the threat of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other types of modern weapons, which threaten the security of the citizens of the european union. the european union is therefore reopening the question of a missile shield to protect europe's citizens and their interests. this issue has become very topical, especially because of the active development of missile and other technology by several states. missile-defense equipment has already been deployed in romania under the guarantee of the united states of america in the field of the security of the european union and it is planned to deploy similar equipment in poland in the near future. nato has committed itself to providing the southern states with full protection by the end of 2020 with the most advanced technologies available, in order to perfectly protect their security and territorial integrity. in the future, cooperation of missile defence systems of the russian federation and nato is also considered.
in writing. - what ? the eu-thailand free trade agreement will be of great importance to the whole european economy. the agreement should be a first step towards an interregional free trade agreement between the european union and asean countries. the influx of fish products such as tuna onto the european market remains a problem, which could seriously disrupt the processing industry in the member states. imports of similar products from thailand must be subject to very strict controls in the interests of sustainable development in the european fisheries sector. the european union will also require thailand, within the framework of the agreement, to promote and respect internationally recognised labour standards, including standards prohibiting child labour, combating illegal and unreported fishing and enhancing environmental protection.
in writing. - what ? the european union has a deep and rich tradition in the field of gastronomy, which is part of the cultural heritage, and therefore one of the main tasks and basic policies of the european union should be to educate people in the sector. students in primary and secondary schools should be introduced to the social, cultural and historical aspects of their country's gastronomic heritage. the preservation of the gastronomic heritage of the regions of the european union is also important in view of the important role of gastronomy in tourism and its development. foreign tourists and travellers travel to the regions and cities of the member states in order to experience the gastronomy of the region as part of its cultural aspect. education and training of staff in the nutritional aspects of food can also help to improve the health and vitality of the european population. promoting mobility, training and cooperation in the field of gastronomy through european union programmes will ultimately lead to better protection of european products and consumer awareness. in the future, it is essential to combine healthy eating and gastronomy in order to improve the culture and standards of eating across the member states of the european union.
in writing. - what ? the new data protection regulation replaces the directive and is necessary because of the lack of transparency in implementation and the enforced differences between member states, which have become too substantive and confusing for individuals, but also for businesses and executive bodies. the data protection regulation in question lays down rules concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of data and rules concerning the free movement of personal data. the european union aims to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons to the greatest extent possible. the updating of the regulation improves the level of protection and legal certainty in respect of the observance of the rights of individuals. the main improvements of the new regulation include more precise and clearer definitions that better stand the test of time, clear principles for data processing, a strong definition of consent, reduction of the administrative burden for small and medium-sized enterprises, harmonised enforcement of rules across the european union that guarantee a level playing field for all citizens and the business community.
in writing. - what ? until now, the european union has had a directive on the protection of personal data, adopted in 1995. in view of the rapidly evolving electronic world and the transfer of data to third countries, i agree with a thorough reform of the european union's rules. i believe people have the right to protect and control the spread of information about their personal data. on the other hand, the unification of rules in the eu will also benefit companies with crossborder operations. the stricter rules for data exchange between countries provide for penalties for companies that violate the regulation of up to 5[nbsp ]% of the revenue from total sales. the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, sexual orientation or gender identity, etc., must be prohibited. i fully support the new rules which make it clear that classifying individuals on the basis of their personal characteristics is unacceptable. i am very pleased that after years of hard work, we can today freely declare that we take the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens seriously. i think that the final text of the directive, as well as the regulation, clearly reflects the main problems of our time. it is now up to the governments in the member states themselves to adopt both legislative texts, thus confirming their commitment to protecting the personal data of their citizens.
in writing. - what ? the euro is one of the european union's most valuable assets, and as the common currency of 17 countries and 330 million people, it is an attractive target for criminals. since the introduction of the single currency, the counterfeiting of the euro has caused damage worth some 500 million. the european commission aims to minimise counterfeiting of the common currency through a more harmonised approach and cross-border cooperation. the proposal aims to extend the application of the pericles 2020 programme to member states which have not adopted the euro as the single currency. the pericles 2020 programme has achieved its objectives and should clearly continue in order to protect the euro against counterfeiting.
in writing. - what ? since 2009, the european union has sought to deepen and improve relations with countries in the east and south in order to promote the security, stability and territorial integrity of the member states through the eastern partnership strategy. the simplification of visa arrangements and the mobility of citizens are also an integral part of this agreement. however, the visa facilitation agreement cannot be adopted without the validity of the readmission agreement for persons without a residence permit. at the eastern partnership summit on 28 and[nbsp]29 november 2013, azerbaijan signed an agreement on visa facilitation and a readmission agreement should be signed in the near future. the process of deepening the mutual relations between the european union and azerbaijan will contribute to enhancing security and justice in the region.
in writing. - what ? children are the weakest and most vulnerable members of society and deserve to be protected and brought up in favourable conditions without restrictions on their fundamental rights and freedoms. yet, in many lands around the world, children are called into armed conflict, resulting in their separation from their families. such separation has a profound and negative impact on the physical and mental development of children, as they are often subjected to sexual abuse and forced to kill at a young age. since 1996, more than 2 million children have lost their lives in armed conflicts around the world. many countries have now signed action plans whose main objective is to end the recruitment of minors into armed forces, which results in the return of millions of children to their natural environment and the prosecution of the perpetrators. the primary role in child protection must be played by the states concerned themselves, but the role of armed non-state actors, such as the geneva call, is also important.
in writing. - what ? the various forms of protection of natural persons are among the main priorities of the european union's policies. the institutions of the european union seek to protect the personal data of natural persons while ensuring a high level of public security and ensuring the exchange of information between competent authorities within the eu. the scope of the new directive is therefore not limited to cross-border data processing but covers all processing activities carried out by competent authorities. the main objective is to repeal the old and malfunctioning framework decision 2008/977/jha and to bring about a higher level of protection of personal data and a greater enforceability of rights and legitimate interests. rapid technological developments in the field of personal data protection bring new challenges and technology allows public authorities to use personal data on an unprecedented scale. in the near future, the competent authorities must decide how to use and exploit personal data and prevent misuse in different areas.
in writing. - what ? the level of protection of personal data in the eu has become significantly outdated in the light of new scientific and technological advances. many eu citizens are fearful and frustrated at losing control over their data, which can be easily and quickly exploited, especially in the area of information technology use. the protection of personal data must therefore be adequately ensured by the competent european data protection authorities, which will ensure that such information is not misused. i agree with the rapporteur that the processing of personal data must be legitimate, transparent, proportionate and limited in time and that the purpose of the collection must be clearly defined in advance. the infringement of legal obligations by operators must be detected and punished by fines which are sufficiently dissuasive also for international businesses and other companies. i therefore voted in favour of adopting a more modern legal framework which will ensure a higher level of protection of personal data. however, i believe that the proposal could have been more ambitious in many respects.
in writing. - we all want to live in safety, but no one wants their privacy to be violated in any way. ongoing scandals over the intelligence agencies' collection of data on millions of people have corrupted many citizens. on the other hand, monitoring of internet communications is also effective in combating paedophilia and child abuse online. however, i agree with the call for caution and a certain degree of restraint in the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. we must take account of the different practices in police and judicial cooperation in the different eu member states.
the single european sky has promised to make air travel cheaper and more efficient for citizens. but there was no dramatic change for the better. it is in the interests of citizens across the eu that travel between member states becomes truly affordable and less time consuming. building the cohesion and solidarity of the european peoples is based on knowledge and experience. air travel brings us closer together. as a citizen of slovakia and the eu, i therefore hope that the new measures will lead to an objective that has so far eluded us.
in writing. - what ? in order to improve the smoothness and efficiency of air traffic and the safety of the aviation industry, the european union has launched the single european sky initiative. the objective of the recast regulation is to preserve the original objectives and principles while accelerating the reform of air and navigation services. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. practice has shown that the existing aviation authorities already perform most of the tasks of the national supervisory authorities and there is a great deal of confusion between the national supervisory authorities and the national aviation authorities, which could be resolved by merging the concepts into one, thus clearly defining responsibilities.
in writing. - the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched 14 years ago and has brought together air traffic management and navigation services under the common transport policy. however, the ses initiative did not produce the expected results and therefore a reform of the regulation was necessary, the aim of which is to accelerate the implementation of the reform of air navigation services while maintaining the original objectives and principles. i am therefore very pleased that parliament has approved this proposal with the strong support of the s&d group. our faction has supported this initiative from the very beginning. with more than 2 million flights crossing the european skies every quarter and airspace being almost fully occupied, it is of the utmost importance that it is used as efficiently as possible, taking into account financial and environmental aspects. although we have managed to remove physical borders in europe, we still have 28[nbsp] airspaces, which still hampers efficiency. however, with this regulation we have achieved the creation of a european aviation agency which is practically the equivalent of the federal aviation administration of the united states. this will allow the european union to strengthen its position as a global player in air transport.
i supported the report because safety is a fundamental requirement of air transport. its security depends on a number of technical standards and constant monitoring. on the one hand, it is about aviation technology itself, on the other hand, it is about air traffic safety. even a small failure can cause disaster. strengthening the mandate of the european aviation safety agency should help ensure that eu citizens can continue to have full confidence that their aircraft will arrive safely at their destination.
in writing. - what ? the amendment of this regulation is part of the single european sky package, the main objective of which is to improve aviation safety and to clearly define the competence of the european aviation safety agency. this regulation is of particular importance for the application of the interinstitutional agreement of july 2012 on european agencies. the european union must respond to the dissatisfaction of passengers and air traffic controllers with the level of service and safety in civil aviation. the agency's role is to be strengthened significantly in the field of safety.
in writing. - what ? the revision of the existing directive 90/314/eec is necessary in particular because of the dynamic development of internet sales. the travel market is undergoing major changes and the internet is constantly bringing new business ideas. ultimately, compliance by member states with the directive will be essential. the european union should ensure uniform protection and clear and unequivocal rights for travellers from all member states without exception, as the common internal market intends. consumers ask for improvement in particular when they are faced with unexpected difficulties, with which they often have no one to help them. the organisers are not able to provide consumers with the necessary information, practical assistance or communication. the aim of improvements in the air transport sector is to achieve a balance between consumers and economic operators, which should result in a regulation that responds to the modern and dynamically changing trends of today's society and provides a high level of protection to all stakeholders.
in writing. - what ? the field of travel, leisure and excursion services currently does not offer european consumers sufficient guarantees to protect their legitimate interests. i am particularly concerned that internet sales have not been covered by the [nbsp]directive in force so far, with the result that many holidaymakers have suffered high losses, never compensated, in the event of complications or unfair practices resulting from the conduct of commercial travel companies. in the interests of protecting passengers in the internal market, i am in favour of harmonising rights and introducing a uniform redress procedure. clear and uniform rules will help to increase legal certainty for holidaymakers, who are much more likely to use the option of purchasing travel services in different member states. i am convinced that empowering passengers at european level will also lead to a strengthening of healthy competition in the internal market.
in writing. - the single internal market within the eu must also allow travellers to enjoy uniform protection and clear, unambiguous rights, regardless of[nbsp ]the member state in which they live, work or purchase a package. when purchasing a package of travel services, whether in person or through a broker or via the internet, the european consumer must have all relevant information at his disposal before concluding the contract of sale. every year we see cases where a consumer, through the insolvency of the retailer or the organiser of the package, is unable to provide the consumer with the adequate service he has purchased. full harmonisation of legislation is therefore necessary in the interests of consumers. i also welcome the obligation to provide adequate assistance to passengers who find themselves in difficulty during the journey or holiday, even if the organiser is not to blame and the financial assistance is at the expense of the traveller.
i am very sorry that the report on which my colleague edith bauer has worked for more than two years was debated by this parliament before midnight yesterday as the last item on the agenda. it is a directive that deals with everyday situations affecting union citizens working in another member state. i am glad that an acceptable compromise has finally been found and that i have been able to support this report. however, i would ask the leadership of the parliament to give such an important report a more prominent place on its agenda in the future.
in writing. - what ? this directive aims to improve the enforceability of regulation 492/2011 on the free movement of workers within the european union. the main objective is to remove existing obstacles to the mobility of workers within the european union and to the enforcement of their rights under eu law. many workers in the territory of the member states face discrimination on grounds of nationality and are not provided with basic information in the field of job search. the european union must provide fair and transparent conditions for all european citizens who decide to move to another member state to pursue a profession. the social partners must act more decisively in the protection of mobile workers and in the prevention of unequal treatment.
in writing. - as a consequence of the economic crisis, many people are looking for work in other countries, in other eu member states, far from their home country. the directive on the facilitation of the free movement of workers is intended to complement the existing legal framework on this subject. the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental freedoms of eu citizens and a cornerstone of the internal market. the directive aims to address the problems of permanent workers, seasonal workers and crossborder workers. the situation of labour-scarce regions may improve. the rights contained in the regulations are not always and adequately exercised in practice by the member states of the union vis-à-vis the citizens of other member states, and eu citizens enjoying the right of free movement are therefore often subject to discrimination on grounds of nationality. i hope that the directive will put an end to such discriminatory procedures in the member states. member states have a duty to inform workers of their rights. precise definitions are needed to make it clear which jobs can be filled by foreigners. improving cooperation and mutual trust between member states, including through a well-functioning network of contacts, would help to ensure the right to free movement. i believe that simplifying the administrative procedures that affect citizens living and working in the union would also make their daily lives easier. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - what ? although only three per cent of all eu citizens live in a member state other than their country of origin, i consider the free movement of workers within eu member states to be one of the eu's most significant achievements. we declared 2013 the european year of citizens, with the aim of ensuring the effective enforcement of eu citizens' rights, including free movement. i regret to say that i have personally encountered many times in recent times that citizens who were interested in travelling or who had travelled to another country for work encountered a number of problems and obstacles that prevented them from working in another member state. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it not only identifies and points out these shortcomings, but also comes up with concrete proposals and measures that can significantly help to eliminate these persistent problems. as i see labour mobility as one of the alternatives that gives workers the opportunity to improve their living and working conditions, i expect the eu and the individual member states to comply more strictly with the provisions of the founding treaties and to increase awareness of eu rules.
in writing. - what ? copernicus is the successor to gmes, which provides important environmental information through earth observation using satellites and other advanced technology, and tracks natural or man-made disasters such as forest fires. this system was used, for example, in the typhoon in the philippines. this programme can help to organise urban and agricultural planning better and more efficiently, saving around eur 30 billion and creating 50 000 jobs in the period 2015-2030. a new operational phase of satellite positioning and earth observation will be launched through the copernicus programme. it is questionable why the budget for such a major project as copernicus has been reduced by[nbsp ]35[nbsp ]% and why the european commission is resisting the expansion of the european economy and major projects that could lift europe out of[nbsp ]the economic difficulties it is in.
the eastern partnership is the eu's ambition for the future at this point. i have no problem supporting this ambition in the spirit of the report submitted. but i'm skeptical about its practical implementation. the eu's strength is its economy, which is still recovering from the financial crisis. i do not see the will for grand gestures or bold policy here today, because the citizens of the member states are more focused than ever on solving internal problems. but there is one thing we must be consistent about. the eu's stance on the violation of fundamental human rights in the eastern partnership countries must never be overlooked or underestimated.
in writing. - the eastern partnership is a young project which has recently been seriously threatened by third parties and it is important that the european union shows openness and commitment to this european project. a european perspective could help to kick-start the necessary reforms of all stakeholders and strengthen their commitment to respecting common principles such as democracy and the rule of law. the citizens of the eastern partnership countries need a clear signal from the european union in the form of support in the area of financial assistance, as well as visa facilitation. the european union must make more flexible and efficient use of macroeconomic instruments and simplify trade regimes. recent events in some eastern partnership countries have highlighted the fragility of the political, economic and social integration process and the need to improve cooperation.
in writing. - what ? recent suspicions of surveillance of european citizens and institutions by the united states of america have raised major concerns about security and privacy rights. intelligence services can learn more about citizens than ever before through cutting-edge technology. the mass surveillance process has not been the subject of wide public debate or democratic decision-making until now. however, the situation that has arisen since the revelations by edward snowden is alarming and calls for strong action to protect society and the right to privacy. it is questionable whether most citizens would want to trade privacy for a greater sense of security. it is the duty of the legislature to adapt existing legislation and legal instruments to minimise the damage caused by violations of fundamental human rights. however, member states do not respond in the same way to the problem, demonstrating the uneven level of controls and balances of eu powers in these matters and the need for greater cooperation between the parliamentary bodies responsible for supervision in the individual member states.
in writing. - what ? the revelations by former national security agency analyst edward snowden indicate a shift in the attitude of the us security forces towards the right to privacy of citizens, regardless of their nationality. this attitude shows that the world has changed since september 11, 2001. the high demands placed on security, combined with developments in communication technologies, allow agencies like the nsa to know more about citizens than ever before. these factors have resulted in mass surveillance practices that are the exact opposite of the targeted surveillance originally used. targeted surveillance has been used in the fight against terrorism as appropriate and within the framework of appropriate measures. on the one hand, it is entirely logical and beneficial to seek the most effective use of ict for protection and, above all, prevention against crime. however, i am of the opinion that the provision of information requires an informed public debate because of the scale of the problems that such information causes in the context of interference with the fundamental rights of citizens. the problem, however, is that this debate is not conducted uniformly across the eu. many member states do not allow for public debate and media attention varies between countries, with germany perhaps the most prominent. however, i believe that a fundamental right such as the right to privacy should not be neglected.
in writing. - the european commission is working to raise awareness of citizens' rights in the member states through europe direct centres and various portals. however, member states and[nbsp]their politicians must also make a greater contribution to raising citizens' awareness. with the european parliament elections in 2014 taking place in many countries with low interest and participation of eligible voters, there is a need for citizens to become increasingly involved in the democratic processes of the european union. the responsible authorities must promote active citizenship in all its manifestations and forms. it is necessary to develop a european civil dialogue that promotes participatory citizenship. it is clear that the importance of the european institutions and their decisions will have an increasing impact on the daily lives of the citizens of the member states in the future, and it is therefore important that member states give more space in their school curricula to political education in the field of european union affairs.
in writing. - the european public prosecutor's office should be responsible for prosecuting a range of offences committed against the financial interests of the european union. it is essential that the european public prosecutor's office, if it is established, has an efficient and simple structure that guarantees independence and experience, and that professionalism is combined with speed of decision-making and accuracy of investigation with knowledge of the specific conditions in the individual member states where the offences in question were committed. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office represents a step forward in the process of cooperation between individual member states in the field of criminal justice and, in cooperation with eurojust, olaf and europol, can complement an effectively functioning system of cooperation in criminal matters.
i didn't support the report. i think turkey is not part of the eu. this is also confirmed by previous shortcomings in the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria. but at the same time turkey is our important partner and i would like to believe that this partnership based on mutual benefit will gradually develop into a genuine friendship. that is why i am pleased that, despite many problems, the intensive dialogue between the eu and turkey continues and would welcome it to grow in intensity. however, like most of my colleagues, i am also concerned about the signs of radicalisation in political life.
in writing. - what ? accession negotiations with turkey started in 2005. turkey, like many countries before it, has committed itself to meeting the copenhagen criteria, the necessary reforms and gradual approximation to the european union. turkey is a strategic partner for the european union, given its location, economic strength and important regional role. however, for eight years turkey has not implemented the provisions of the association agreement. the level of sectarianism, familyism and corruption that dominates turkish society is very worrying. the response of the ruling elite, led by the prime minister, to the citizens' protests in the summer of 2013, which resulted in the death of 7 people and many more were injured, is also in question. police brutality has no place in europe and turkey will have to restart the necessary reforms and respect fundamental human rights and freedoms much more rigorously after the 2014 elections.
in writing. - what ? accession negotiations with turkey were officially launched in 2005, when turkey committed itself to democratic and modernisation reforms, after which the country's possible accession to the eu could be considered. the fair but strict conditions of the copenhagen criteria and alignment with the european union are therefore a prerequisite for the further process. however, the commission's 2013 progress report on turkey reiterates that turkey has not implemented the provisions of the association agreement and the additional protocol to the agreement for eight years. i stress that any country aspiring to join must unconditionally ensure the functioning of the principles of democracy and the rule of law based on respect for fundamental human rights. this implies, in particular, the reform of the judiciary, the elimination of corruption and[nbsp]discrimination, the increase of transparency in the exercise of public authority and respect for plurality.
the 25th session of the un human rights council is symbolic. this year also marks the 25th anniversary of the fall of communism and the iron curtain. many countries that suppressed human rights for decades are now members of the eu, and many of those who fought for human rights are now eu leaders or sitting in this parliament. the eu has experienced a mini-revolution in human rights a few years ago and insists on consistency and coordination among the eu's most important actors. i would like to address two specific priorities during the 25th council in geneva. the first is the role of ngos in human rights issues. it should be emphasised and the eu should actively support their engagement. ngos can play a decisive and positive role in non-democratic regimes. the second is the rights of the child. we're raising awareness of them, and it's even our top priority. since it's a broad term, i want to draw attention to the issue of child soldiers in this area. their growing numbers in armed conflicts are alarming and call for our increased activity. syria, mali and the central african republic are among the new conflicts where child soldiers are used on a daily basis. brute interference with their rights, manipulation and indoctrination by extremists, use of schools as military facilities. that's just a poor estimate of what all the kids in these zones are going through. finally, impunity and the violation of children's rights is another area that requires special eu attention, and where else to draw attention to it but in the united nations.
for the efd group. although the asian business centres operating in thailand, china and india differ in many ways in terms of their organisation, work structure and the range of activities they manage, two aspects of their functioning are common. their work is co-financed by the european union and[nbsp]an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of their work has found a weaker performance. in view of the continuing economic stagnation, the union cannot afford to maintain, at the expense of the taxpayers, inefficient structures which are unable to provide the necessary service for european business entities entering the asian market. i therefore believe that the european commission should examine the efficiency of the use of european funds used to cover the activities of individual business centres and, drawing on the experience of the best-performing analogue workshops, reform the existing practices in the organisation of the work of these business centres.
madam president, my political group and i have always been supportive of policy measures that are aimed at enhancing the competitiveness of eu companies beyond the eu market. european business centres in asia are one of the means aiming to help the eu stay competitive in an ever-changing global market. therefore, they must function and operate in the most efficient and effective manner possible. unfortunately, recent evaluations have shown that these initiatives have not been performing to the standards that we expected. these data raise several questions. we are concerned about whether demonstrated initiatives offer sufficient added value for european companies; whether the resources were allocated effectively; whether there has been enough transparency in these initiatives and whether they are already able to continue to function partly on their own revenue. i am aware that setting up new business centres is a long-term project and that they have to overcome initial challenges. business centres in india, china and thailand already achieve measurable success, and i believe they have a potential to reinforce common eu interests. however, we must hold the commission accountable to ensure that the business centres are efficient in aiding european businesses. we must also ensure that there are appropriate tools and information at the disposal of our businesses so that they can not only enter the asian market but thrive in it.
in writing. we are all aware of the need to prepare and use the eu budget efficiently so that we can draw on the funds of the new seven-year financial period successfully next year. the slovak government was one of the first eu countries to submit a partnership agreement, which is a prerequisite for[nbsp]drawing funds from the european funds. today we're discussing the outlines of next year's budget. we already have a deficit in this year's budget for payment appropriations. on the basis of the multiannual financial framework , the commission should raise the payment ceiling for 2015 those who use european funds, whether they are cities, municipalities, regions or private investors, cannot afford not to pay their bills. it would trigger a chain reaction and harm all actors in the investor-supplier chain . in parallel with the preparation of the budget this year, we need to complete systemic actions in the financial sector the single banking supervision, which is the cornerstone of the banking union, has already been successfully launched. in the area of banking union, we still have two more steps to go: the resolution mechanism that was discussed yesterday in the trilogue, so that we can finally stop using taxpayers' money to save our banks, and a single deposit protection so that people who have their savings in banks are also systematically protected. i 'm not .
in writing. - what ? the european union's priority now and in the future must be to create an area where people can move, live and work freely, while having confidence that their fundamental rights and freedoms will be fully respected. the economic and financial crisis has hit the people of the european union hard and changed the lives of many regions and cities. some regions in europe are ageing significantly and need an influx of young and talented workers from other member states with the skills and competence to fill the increasing gap in the labour market. if the european union is to remain globally competitive, it must develop a comprehensive immigration policy and take a tougher stance against the threats of organised crime. an integrated approach to migration and asylum policy can bring significant added value to the european union in the future and serve as another example of solidarity and responsibility sharing. the establishment of a common framework for migration and asylum policies will increase the efficiency of spending and improve budgetary synergies. a clear strategic multiannual financial framework, based on a dialogue between the european commission and the member states, will allow for better targeting of assistance to individual member states. any action financed by the fund shall be consistent with the european union's existing instruments in the field of external assistance and with humanitarian principles, which shall be clearly and precisely defined.
in writing. - the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships was adopted on 15 may 2009 under the auspices of the international maritime organisation. the convention covers the construction, operation and preparation of ships in preparation for their sustainable recycling, without compromising ship safety and operational efficiency. for the convention to enter into force, it needs to be ratified by significant recycling countries. so far, 5 countries have signed it and norway has acceded to it. the parties expect the convention to enter into force by 2020. the european parliament and the council adopted a new regulation on ship recycling in november 2013. its objective is to ensure the environmentally sound recycling of ships, in particular their dismantling. it is important to allow the member states of the european union to ratify or accede to the hong kong convention in order to ensure safer and more environmentally sound recycling of ships from third countries.
in writing. - the troika is only a technical body and its democratic legitimacy should be enhanced in view of the european taxpayers who have shown considerable solidarity with the countries most affected by the economic and financial crisis. at the outbreak of the crisis, 16 of the 17 euro area countries were not complying with the maastricht criteria. it is important that member states comply with european legislation and pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to promote jobs and growth in the euro area. the fulfilment of the consolidation objectives shall form the basis for the allocation of funds by the european union. the national responsible authorities must fully assume their responsibility and legal obligations for confirming the legality of financial transactions and the effectiveness of supervisory and control systems. the european parliament should be more involved in the whole process and the esm, which serves as a source of financial assistance to the member states, should be directly accountable to the european parliament.
in writing. - the committee on economic and monetary affairs drew up an inquiry report on the role and activities of the troika in the four countries affected by the economic adjustment programmes, namely greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus. the conclusions reached by the inquiry are quite clear to the committee. the troika has failed in its mission and its policy has failed. the methods used by this system are not in line with the standard of democracy that the member states deserve. the social dimension of the eu was grossly neglected and the troika acted like a bankers' club. europe must show that it cares not only for the financial health of its member states but also for the lives of its citizens. the troika's actions have led to anger and resentment in the countries under investigation, and therefore all stakeholders, in particular the social partners and the ep, will need to be taken into account when planning the new revitalization of the economies. it is therefore necessary that, following the dissolution of the troika, a european monetary fund should be established, operating under the auspices of the european stability mechanism and[nbsp ]within the framework of the community principle.
in writing. - what ? the activities and tasks of the troika have had an impact on employment and social aspects in the countries concerned. a closer analysis of the social and economic situation in the countries concerned shows the devastating effects of programmes and measures, including cuts in social benefits and other areas such as education, health and social services. in the member states, public debt continues to rise, unemployment and insecurity are rising, wages are falling and working-age poverty is increasing. the conditions to be met by member states for granting loans seriously undermine the social objectives of the european union and the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. crisis management mechanisms need to be established that are transparent and that better integrate the european institutions, namely the european parliament. the european commission should draw up a study of the actual effects of economic and social measures on employment and present measures and incentives to improve the employment and social situation in the countries concerned. in the future, there is a need to increase spending on health, health care and education, which should be seen as investments and not as expenditure.
in writing. - what ? the economic and financial crisis had a particularly strong impact on four european economies greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus. the report criticises the troika's work on the process of creating the recovery programme as well as its results. it notes in particular the deepening of social problems and the marked increase in unemployment in these countries. such a sharp deterioration in social conditions, often leading to extreme poverty and social exclusion, affects the stability and health of the whole society. it is therefore clear that corrective measures are needed to improve the social situation, especially of the most vulnerable groups of the population. however, for these measures to be effective, it is also necessary to design an on-going control system. unfortunately, this proposal is not in the report, and i could not in good conscience support it.
in writing. - the internal security fund is one of the two funds established in the field of internal affairs under the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020. the european commission has proposed to split the new internal security fund into two parts. it will deal with police cooperation and crisis management on the one hand and external borders and visas on the other. the external visa financial support facility is intended to provide an integrated approach to issues arising from migratory pressures and the security of the external borders and to support cooperation with third countries in preventing illegal migration to the european union and facilitating legal travel. it is important that the european union ensures the security of its external borders. member states will need to improve the training of border guards and increase investment in the area of smart borders.
in writing. - what ? the european union has made it a priority to ensure a high level of security of networks and information flows within its territory. the main objective of the draft directive is to strengthen the network and information security of critical infrastructure operators on the market. many security incidents cross national borders and can thus threaten consumer confidence and the proper functioning of the internal market. member states have very different levels of preparedness to manage fragmented procedures across the european union, which results in different levels of protection for consumers and businesses and weakens the overall level of network and information security within the european union. in the modern world, technological and it challenges in the field of threats and attacks are growing, posing a major challenge to the national economy, security and the private sector. building critical infrastructure is vital to sustain and preserve economic and social activities in the fields of energy, transport, banking, infrastructure, financial markets and health. the proposal targets public administrations and market players to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures and to effectively manage and mitigate risks to network and information security.
in writing. - what ? the substantive modernisation of directive 1999/5/ec is necessary due to the extreme growth of mobile devices and wireless applications, which brings with it an increased risk of signal interference between products. it is important to use the radio spectrum efficiently. the revised directive fully harmonises the placing of products on the market, with member states not being allowed to introduce further restrictions which at national level govern the same requirements. the directive increases and updates the essential requirements for health and safety protection, electromagnetic compatibility and prevention of harmful interference. however, it will be important in the context of the implementation of the directive not to increase the administrative burden disproportionately.
in writing. - what ? the situation in ukraine is very serious. he was involved in the 'governmental' activities of the so-called 'government of the donetsk people's republic'. there are an estimated 30,000 russian troops in the area. the russian federation's aggression is a violation of international law and the un charter and at least 3 other agreements between ukraine and the russian federation. on 6 march 2014 the parliament of crimea decided to hold a referendum on the accession of the crimea to the russian federation. the european union has frozen the assets of 18 former senior ukrainian officials, including former president viktor yanukovych. the european union fully respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine and recognises the legitimacy of the new government appointed by the democratically elected parliament. the common action of the european union and all its member states is important and it is therefore important that france stops selling warships to the russian federation. the russian forces must withdraw from ukraine and deny reports of the placement of mines in the area of the bridge connecting the crimean peninsula with the mainland and enter the area of the osce military observers.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has brought greater transparency and democracy to the functioning of the european union, in particular by strengthening the european parliament's position as the only directly elected eu institution and by introducing the possibility for national parliaments to have a say in the legislation adopted. i am pleased to note that since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has taken up its new powers actively and has begun to exercise its role as co-legislator with responsibility and full commitment. however, in the future, i would like the european parliament to be involved in the preparation of delegated acts. the commission accepts them as non-legislative acts of general application, but they amend or supplement elements of a legislative act. in my view, consideration should also be given to the right of legislative initiative of the european parliament. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of adopting the report on the implementation of the treaty of lisbon, with a view to the european parliament
in writing. - i come from a country of communist experiment and i know that while common property deprives people of the desire to enrich the environment in which they live, private property motivates people. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is the enormous obstacles faced by people in the poorest countries in their efforts to acquire legal ownership that prevent them from gradually moving out of poverty. women and mothers are particularly hard hit, their position being unequal to that of men, although the greatest responsibility often lies on their shoulders. but i would prefer that in an effort to help these women, we talk about gender equality and avoid the ambiguous term "gender". only then will our help be truly effective.
in writing. - what ? policy coherence has become the european union's global policy tool for development and sustainable growth. its main objective is to prevent divergences in the european union's policies and to prevent negative effects on developing countries. the european union and its member states must ensure that the new post-2015 framework includes a gsp target that allows for the development of more reliable indicators to measure the progress made by donors and partner countries. the european commission presented the document in question as a working document which, unlike the communication originally intended, does not require the consent of the college of members of the european commission, which is paradoxical in a text of such importance.
in writing. - the fact that some union policies have a negative impact on the achievement of development policy objectives is nothing new. it is even more important to put in place mechanisms to prevent such situations from arising. i consider the arbitration mandate to be a good tool that can help to better achieve development goals. i also agree with the rapporteur that the introduction of political responsibility for policy coordination in the interest of development could gradually lead to both an optimisation of decision-making procedures within the various commission departments and, at the same time, to an improvement in their mutual cooperation.
in writing. - i cannot agree to the eu's active participation in the commission on the status of women, which also deals with the sexual and[nbsp]reproductive rights of women and girls. the establishment and implementation of sexual and reproductive health and rights policies, which today also include the sensitive issue of abortion, are the responsibility of the member states. there is no consensus on abortion in europe today, and laws governing the practice of abortion vary widely from country to country. the eu therefore has no mandate to speak for all member states and to do so would violate the fundamental principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the treaties.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr[nbsp ]president, reports of increased terrorist attacks and human trafficking in sinai are deeply disturbing. the region has become a haven for militant islamist terrorists and for traffickers. there have been countless reports of bomb explosions and attacks on tourists, refugees and civilians, and they are still coming in. what is most disturbing is that the perpetrators of these acts are not only terrorists but also, in some cases, isolated groups of egyptian police. it is welcome news that the egyptian security forces have started to crack down on terrorist groups, but that is not enough. we, as a body, should demand that egypt and sudan uphold their international obligations and proactively begin to crack down on and prosecute human traffickers, drug smugglers and other criminals who are targeting innocent civilians, refugees and tourists.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. - we are continuing the debate on electronic communications to improve the internal market rules for businesses and citizens. the virtual world is now a reality, but the field needs to be improved. this also applies to cross-border electronic identification and trusted electronic services related to electronic transactions. as the last step in the key measures of the single market package, a regulation on this subject has been drawn up, which i hope will soon prove useful in practice. the proposal responds to the demand of digital market players for a comprehensive eu framework for trusted electronic transactions, while also increasing legal certainty. the purpose of the document is to facilitate the lives and activities of eu citizens and businesses by facilitating access to public services in other member states through electronic identification systems in cross-border cases. in the course of our work in parliament, we have put forward the idea that the rules that are being created should guarantee the mutual benefit of electronic identification and authentication. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the eu's greatest strengths are the single market, the free movement of people, goods and services. roaming is now a thing of the past, and the abolition of roaming charges is therefore good news for consumers. the opposition of the large multinational telecommunications companies was not justified, since many operators are the same in many member states. the promotion of net neutrality is also good news for electronic communications users. all data will have to be processed as quickly as possible, and neither operators nor governments will be able to limit the speed of data transmission. electronic service users will also welcome better consumer rights to prohibit opaque contracts on font size and data range, which will allow for easier comparability of individual contracts.
i am pleased that the rapporteurs have tabled an amendment which removes the reference to the so-called copenhagen commission from the original text of the report. this idea was bad enough when it appeared in a recent report by colleague michel. such a special committee not only lacks the support of the treaties, but its action would be an interference with the powers of the member states and a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. however, i regret that even after the adoption of this amendment, the requirement to extend the fundamental rights agency's powers will remain in paragraph 16. an agency that detects violations of eu citizens' fundamental rights by posting an anonymous questionnaire on the internet really doesn't need new powers. the so-called copenhagen dilemma that such proposals seek to solve does not exist. if a member state fails to fulfil its obligations, the european commission takes action, followed by the european court of justice.
in previous years, we have tried to strengthen our role as a respected global player. however, recent events, especially in ukraine and crimea, have shown that our foreign policy still has weaknesses. principles such as freedom, human rights, the promotion of democracy and territorial sovereignty are undermined from the outside by russia's expansionist policy, but also from the inside by our frequent indecisiveness. we know what we should do. we must stand by the principles and values that our society represents. it is not always easy, but it is our duty to defend these values in the union as well as beyond its borders. we need to react faster and more flexibly, because today change often happens overnight. in unity should be our strength. the report by arnaud danjean emphasises this point. i couldn't agree more. we need to use the resources we have better and more efficiently. diplomatic, economic, human, financial and last but not least, our political capital. so the key is to make better use of what we have, and only then can we be a major global player. i would also like to thank baroness ashton for her service in the previous period.
in writing. - what ? the european parliament seeks to improve the level of environmental protection and public health through innovation in the automotive industry, while at the same time increasing road safety in the european union. one such measure is the regulation on the noise emission of motor vehicles. the purpose of the regulation is to establish a set of limit values applicable to vehicles used for the carriage of passengers and goods in three stages. the first phase will be applicable from 01.01.2017. the introduction of the limit value sets should result in a reduction of the limit value for passenger cars to 68 db. manufacturers will be required to provide information on the noise level of cars at the place of their sale. it is necessary to address the growing number of electric cars whose operation on the roads endangers blind and otherwise vulnerable persons. the solution to this problem is to install sound devices in the cars concerned to alert the affected persons to the proximity of the vehicle.
in writing. - what ? the protection of the public health of the inhabitants of the european union requires stricter regulation of the permissible noise levels in the context of the increasing number of motor vehicles. as a doctor, i know that prolonged exposure to loud noise can have a very negative effect on a person's mental and physical health. scientists have established a direct link between noise and hypertension, sleep disturbances, and other disorders. very high noise levels can even lead to progressive hearing loss and shift the threshold of hearing, which is already common among children and young people. it is therefore necessary to ensure that healthy human hearing is protected against excessive, intrusive or annoying noise. for the reasons set out above, i consider the proposal for a regulation as a clear step in the right direction and i vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - parliament and the council have agreed on a set of limit values which apply to both passenger and freight vehicles. for example, the limit values for passenger cars should be gradually reduced to 68 db. but it's not just about noise reduction, i really welcome the introduction of mandatory audible warning for different types of electric cars. it is well known that such vehicles pose a great risk to both the blind and pedestrians whose attention is impaired by other factors. noise caused by motor vehicles or other types of vehicles is one of the most widespread environmental problems in the eu. noise can cause anxiety, sleep disturbances, mental problems, as well as cardiovascular disease. almost 70 million people in the eu are exposed to excessive levels of noise caused by road traffic. more than 44%[nbsp ] of the population of larger cities is exposed to excessive noise levels during sleep. it is therefore necessary to set the rules in such a way as to protect the health of the population to the fullest extent possible.
in writing. - what ? the increase in motor vehicle traffic on our roads is enormous and it is therefore very important that noise limit values are gradually reduced. for example, for passenger cars, the limit value would be reduced to 68 decibels. the values would gradually decrease not only for passenger vehicles but also for goods vehicles. i also consider the issue of the surface and quality of the road surfaces and the production of tyres, which can also affect the noise of motor vehicles, to be important. the regulation adopted is welcomed by citizens of all member states, as the road network is located close to our towns and cities and noise from motor vehicles has a negative impact on people's daily lives. that is why i supported the report. i also agree to provide protection for blind and other vulnerable persons by fitting appropriate vehicle signalling systems to electric vehicles.
in writing. - the european union is very sensitive to the current turbulent period in international trade, characterised by a high number of retaliatory measures. it is important to strengthen the enforcement of the european union's trade rights and to reassure partners that the conditions set and agreed in trade agreements will be respected. the new horizontal legislative framework is by no means intended to be protective, but is intended to serve as a last resort against entities that break the rules. in the past, there have been only a few cases where the european union has been forced to retaliate. the mere existence of the regulation in question should have a sufficiently deterrent effect and prevent possible breaches of trade agreements.
in writing. - what ? the main objective of the present proposal is to bring council regulation no 3491/90 of 26 november 1990 into line with the system in force after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. since the adoption of the regulation, the transitional restrictions on sugar and rice have been increased each year until they were fully lifted in 2009. the 1990 regulation has therefore lost its effect on the import regime between bangladesh and the european union. the european commission proposal also mentions the export tax that the exporting country should levy. the decision to levy an export tax should be left to[nbsp]local political legislators, not the european institutions. the european commission should also bear in mind that the regulation in question must be compatible with the objectives of economic development, poverty eradication and, last but not least, decent working conditions.
in writing. - what ? the protection of public health is one of the european union's main priorities, which seeks to promote and protect the health of citizens living in the territory of the member states through various measures and innovations. such measures include a review of the current regulatory framework for medical devices. the european commission proposes in a new proposal to divide medical devices into four categories according to the degree of risk to patients. it also raises doubts and many serious shortcomings in the transparency, rapid approval and marketing of medical devices despite the lack of testing in patients, which ultimately put patients at great risk. there are currently too many devices that are labelled as single-use devices, even though they could be refurbished. in times of economic and financial crisis, it is very important that medical devices are used as efficiently as possible. it is also important to reflect on the functioning of the eudamed database, which has been mandatory since may 2011, as the way it works has been criticised many times in the past. the european commission must propose improvements, in particular in the area of transparency of information.
in writing. - what ? the purpose of medical devices is to seek to eliminate disease, to alleviate pain and suffering of patients. however, a number of different products are appearing on the market for medical devices, and doctors need to be able to make appropriate choices, even though not all of them meet the same criteria. the current lack of clarity for doctors and patients is being addressed by a draft regulation on medical devices that strengthens certification procedures. i have personally supported all the regulations that enhance patient safety and increase the traceability of medical devices from manufacturer to patient. this is particularly important for high-risk devices that are implanted directly into the human body, such as hip joints.
in writing. - what ? the health and[nbsp ]safety of diagnostic equipment or devices are among the eu's priorities, including in vitro diagnostic devices. these medical devices are intended for use in out-of-body diagnostics, i.e. they can be carried out in the laboratory or in the vicinity of the patient, for example at bedside. this includes a wide range of tests, such as blood sugar tests, hiv tests and dna tests. in vitro diagnostic medical devices are products which are freely available on the common market. more than one million different products are covered by medical devices. there are currently more than 25 000 companies active in the field of medical technology in europe. in 2012 alone, the eu registered 10[nbsp ] thousand patent applications. there are many issues where the european commission proposes to regulate in vitro diagnostic medical devices in the same way as other medical devices. there are no national borders for these products on the european market. the european union is therefore obliged to ensure the greatest possible security.
in writing. - what ? i support legislation that ensures that the quality and safety of medical devices are tightened up, because this is important not only for patients but also for healthcare professionals and carers and all those who come into contact with them. with hundreds of thousands of different types of medical devices on the eu market, only strict legislation will ensure their safety. since may 2011, the use of the european database on medical devices (eudamed) has been mandatory, but its use is often criticised. in the future, it should be ensured that the public and healthcare professionals have adequate access to those parts of the eudamed electronic system that provide important information on medical devices that may present risks to health and safety. i also consider it important to label medical devices, whether they are single or multiple use, and to recycle devices.
in writing. - in vitro medical devices are appropriate for use in diagnostics outside the human body. without expert diagnosis, neither prevention of disease nor proper treatment can be guaranteed. the directive in its current form does not guarantee the influx of low-quality in vitro diagnostic products onto the market. this may lead to erroneous test results and thus endanger public health and the lives of citizens. it is essential that the european union ensures the highest possible safety for its citizens, as in vitro diagnostic medical devices are products that are freely available on the free market and for which there are no national borders. the european commission proposes substantial improvements in the strengthening of the member states' oversight of notified bodies, as it is very important to strengthen market surveillance. the measures the european commission plans to introduce include, for example, unannounced inspections in businesses or the creation of a network of european reference laboratories that would play an important role in the control of risk medical devices. the european union should not seek to restrict patients and their access to dna testing, but should provide and ensure professional and expert advice to inform about the consequences before the test is carried out.
in writing. - what ? the use of in vitro medical devices has many specificities, clinical and health implications, as in vitro devices are used for example in pregnancy detection, dna testing or hiv detection. the reinforcement of safety guarantees also concerns guarantees against the failure of such devices, which may have far-reaching negative consequences in specific cases. for example, in the case of unreliable hiv detection, there is a risk of contamination of other patients if blood transfusions or other contacts should occur. in the field of genetic testing, i support strengthening ethical principles in the use of such devices and, in particular, the introduction of mandatory informed consent of the patient before such testing. in the interest of promoting the safety of in vitro medical devices in the european union, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - health and[nbsp ]safety of diagnostic equipment or devices is one of the eu's priorities, including in vitro diagnostic devices. these medical devices are intended for use in out-of-body diagnostics, i.e. they can be carried out in the laboratory or in the vicinity of the patient, for example at bedside. this includes a wide range of tests, such as blood sugar tests, hiv tests and dna tests. in vitro diagnostic medical devices are products which are freely available on the [nbsp]common market. more than one million different products are covered by medical devices. there are currently more than 25 000 companies active in the field of medical technology in europe. in 2012 alone, the eu registered 10[nbsp ] thousand patent applications. there are many issues where the european commission proposes to regulate in vitro diagnostic medical devices in the same way as other medical devices. there are no national borders for these products on the european market. the european union is therefore obliged to ensure the greatest possible security.
in writing. - what ? in order to monitor and analyse in detail the progress and quality of life of people in the world, the european union has integrated environmental accounting into its programme since 2003. the european commission therefore adopted a regulation in 2011 introducing the first three modules, namely air emissions accounts, environmental taxes and material flow accounts. these new accounts should contribute to the development of more comprehensive indicators to assist public debate and the development of new policies. however, some member states are not yet ready for the data collection in question and therefore request a year's delay. the european commission and national authorities should make the widest possible use of environmental accounts data in the future, which will help to better define the european union's priorities, such as green growth and more efficient use of resources.
in writing. - what ? in recent years, confidence in the ability of the european institutions to deal effectively and expertly with the daily problems of civil society has been significantly reduced. this is why a legislative initiative has been launched, which is the result of awareness-raising work involving, among others, the confederation of european civil society organisations. increased activity by all actors involved should bring about a marked increase in public awareness of the european union's external action in developing countries. the european union is aware that the 100 million people in the member states who suffer material and financial deprivation cannot be forgotten in the discussion of the poor people of the rest of the world. the year 2015 will be a very good opportunity to assess the challenges of development cooperation, but also cohesion policies for development. the year 2015 will offer the european institutions a clear picture of the acceptability of the european union's development policy.
in writing. - what ? the flegt scheme was introduced in 2005 and is primarily aimed at systematically addressing the problem of illegal logging and related trade. only timber products that have been legally produced and in accordance with the national legislation of the partner countries may be exported to the european union. the aim of this proposal is not to amend or replace the current flegt licensing system but to adapt its provisions to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts which are part of the lisbon treaty. the new proposal confers on the european commission the power to adopt delegated acts in respect of the examination of products of the wood species listed in the three annexes to council regulation (ec) no 338/97 on the protection of wild plant species. the new article on amendments adopted after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will require two amendments reflecting the results of the trilogue on the omnibus i and ii consolidated acts.
in writing. - the stockholm programme was presented in 2010 and sets out the european union's priorities for the area of justice, freedom and security for the period 2010[nbsp ][nbsp ]2014. legitimacy of legislation has been increased through the increased use of the ordinary legislative procedure, which gives the european parliament, as the only democratically elected institution, a greater degree of influence. in the future, cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament is expected to improve, as the stronger involvement of the european peoples in the democratic process contributes significantly to policy-making and legislation at european level. the european citizens' initiative gives the citizens of the european union the same powers in proposing policies as the ep and the council, which they appropriately use, and in the future it can help to identify issues that should be addressed at european union level. the european union should continue to seek to protect and intensify its efforts in this area, including in the light of the ongoing investigation into the mass electronic surveillance of european union citizens. cooperation between the ep, the council and the ec is needed to maintain an area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a regulation on a single european electronic communications market and believe that the new principles on which this market will be based will enhance competition, dynamism, efficiency and innovation. in recent years, it has been difficult to talk about a genuine single telecoms market, given the unjustifiably high charges for telephone services, messaging and mobile internet use in a member state other than one's own. this was particularly the case for ordinary consumers in the exercise of their freedom of movement within the internal market. i therefore support the abolition of roaming charges within the european union, which should enter into force on 15 december 2015. as regards the blocking of internet access by providers in order to prevent or discourage the use of competing applications, i voted in favour of rules prohibiting such unfair anti-competitive behaviour.
in writing. - what ? the creation of a single european electronic communications market is a response to the current rapidly evolving market for[nbsp]telecommunications technologies. the single market in electronic communications will bring certainty to consumers as well as to firms active in the sector and will trigger investment, growth and job creation. moreover, the new regulation will facilitate innovative uses of wireless broadband, ensure broadcast protection and[nbsp ]stop interference in the event of multiple devices being used in close proximity. the savings from the scope of the single telecoms market will also make it possible to strengthen the electronic communications sector, making europe a strong global competitive player. zero roaming for calls within the eu is a concrete example that will have a positive impact on the costs of european mobile network users. i see another positive step in the introduction of the so-called fair use clause, which aims to prevent abuse of the use of retail roaming services. despite the successful outcome of the vote, it is a pity that all retail roaming charges for calls from mobile phones, sms and data within the eu will not be abolished until december 2015. today we gave the green light to roaming in the european parliament at first reading and now it is the member states who are next. i therefore support a maximum eurotariff for price ceilings, which should continue to serve as a protective limit for charges for consumption exceeding the real limits until the expiry of the regulation.
in writing. - what ? the european union is currently facing many security challenges and a growing struggle for energy and resource security. it is essential that the european union continues to work with strategic partners and to protect the security and prosperity of its citizens. the european union will become increasingly important in the future and it is therefore important that it provides certainty and added value in dealing with complex situations and creates synergies between different sectors and institutions. various institutional and procedural problems hamper the coherence of the european union's external action in crisis areas, undermining its credibility as a global actor and provider of security. in the area of financial cohesion, the european parliament will exercise full democratic control, thereby guaranteeing the efficient and economical use of the limited resources of the european union to achieve results. in line with the objectives of the lisbon treaty, the european union must continue to strengthen its foreign policy and become more involved in the pursuit of world peace.
in writing. - what ? the protection of the safety and health of the public is a priority for the european union. it is therefore the task of legislators to update and strengthen food safety provisions as often as necessary. the main objective of this regulation is to improve the clarity and applicability of the legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine animals, thereby improving the situation and making beef safer for the final consumer. in recent years, several food scandals have emerged, raising consumer dissatisfaction with the quality and safety of food. electronic identification of livestock will allow more accurate and reliable information to be obtained and will improve food safety.
we are talking about putting in place an infrastructure for alternative fuels. this directive is intended to move europe towards a position of less dependence on oil. we see our incredible dependence on ukraine, on russia, and that's why this is a step in the right direction. in this directive we want to achieve an ever-increasing use of electricity, to use hydrogen, but also liquefied natural gas. for example, it is good that all key maritime ports are equipped with such lng terminals by 2025 and then all ports by 2030. i think it's also important from a strategic point of view that these alternative fuels develop. and the second thing is actually reducing co2 and improving the environment, and a science and research base that would be dedicated to that could be an opportunity for jobs in europe again.
what we are discussing is actually the permissible dimensions of certain vehicles in national and international road transport and the maximum permissible weight in international road transport. i want to pause on the fact that on the one hand, this would be a step towards transportation modernization, but on the other hand, we know that these mega trucks, these huge trucks, which we could also call monster trucks, have a huge weight. and as our colleague from the czech republic said, we are not prepared, for example, with the bridges in the slovak republic or in the czech republic, to let these mega trucks drive on our roads. if some countries want to go down this road and make more aerodynamic, more comfortable, but above all heavier and longer trucks, please, that is their national jurisdiction, but i would not go here harmonizing and that is valid for all european countries.
the noise-related operating limitation for airports, with noise levels within a balanced approach, is very good news that we are actually discussing and accepting. i am glad that the european union is respecting all the rules that apply in the international civil aviation organisation, and in fact we are trying to help citizens who are bothered by the increased noise levels, for example in relation to night flights, which should be more restricted. it is good that the european union, together with the council, has not come to the conclusion that we must harmonize everything and that there must be one single regulation, and that we are leaving a great deal of freedom to the member states within the framework of subsidiarity, while respecting the health risks and reducing the noise level for citizens.
we are talking about food scandals in the first place, which should not be repeated. we know the sad case of horse meat and the fraud that businesses have committed by being fined less than their profits from the fraud for which they were punished. that has to change. i am very pleased that we are discussing this issue, which should be in the interests of the health of the citizens, so that the checks we want to introduce are regular and effective. so that companies simply cannot cheat, so that they cannot give us poor quality food and endanger the health of us and our children. i would like to say and advocate the exemption for small and mediumsized enterprises, for which the particular charges would be liquidating and we must find a reasonable solution.
for the efd group the involvement of interest groups and lobbyists in the european union's policy-making is steadily increasing. according to current studies, some 1700 lobbyists are currently trying to influence the decision-making of the european institutions. the most important group are the financial sector lobbyists, who spend more than €120 million a year on their activities in brussels. the number of lobbyists from the financial sector exceeds the number of lobbyists from the field of civil society or trade union organisations by a ratio of 5:1. the disparity between these groups is even more pronounced in terms of the financial resources at their disposal. the financial lobby provides its representatives with 30 times more resources to promote its interests than the possibilities of civil society organisations or trade unions. from this quantification it is clear that the material possibilities of interest groups or lobby groups can seriously distort our democratic environment. we therefore need to monitor the activities of lobbyists in the european institutions as closely as possible and to widen the range of information and persons to be recorded in the transparency register. only precise rules defining the scope for proper communication between the representatives of the european union and interest groups can contribute to eliminating the risk of distortion of the democratic environment in the union.
mr president malina hedvig, the hungarian student in slovakia, has been harassed and investigated for seven years. the last time the prosecutor sought an expert opinion on the girl's mental state was seven years ago, from an orthopedic specialist. in 2006, the girl was beaten on the way to the exam, on her blouse was written: "hungarians across the danube, slovakia without parasites!" the perpetrators were never punished, the investigation was closed after two weeks, but the prime minister considered it important to clarify that he would not let a student ruin slovakia's good reputation. this is obviously a message to the hungarians in slovakia. the sequel is shocking. the girl was charged with perjury by the intelligence community, all after the previous government apologized to malina hedvig for harassing her. the prosecution charged him with perjury and perjury on april 2nd of this year. the penalty is up to five years in prison. i ask the commission to uphold the rule of law
is it normal that there is an atmosphere in the european union where we are afraid to protect human life? the european union must protect man and return to the protection of human life. the right to live in europe should be and is a fundamental human right. citizens' initiative one of us is to use the citizens' right to ask the european union, and specifically the european commission, to translate the views of two million citizens into binding european union policies. i join the citizens in calling on the european commission to change its policy on the destruction of human embryos, these human embryos from which embryonic stem cells are extracted, but they are living people, living embryos whose lives are being terminated. the acquisition of such cells for so-called scientific purposes is unacceptable policy of the european commission.
for the efd group in my country, the banking sector is currently relatively healthy and stable. however, it may run into serious problems in the course of a few years as a result of the banking union measures. after the dubious privatization of state-owned financial institutions, the banking sector in our country is now dominated by subsidiaries of foreign banks. while subsidiaries are separate entities not threatened by the insolvency of the parent, after their transformation into branches under the proposed amendments, they become a vehicle for draining liquidity from the country of operation to the state in which their head office is located. national banking supervision cannot prevent the transformation of a subsidiary into a branch and cannot then block liquidity transfers from the branch to the foreign parent. commissioner, i do not want to suggest that the creation of a banking union is a hidden mechanism for the theft of resources from healthy stable subsidiaries by unhealthy mothers, or a project to drain liquidity from prosperous countries of the union to other states. however, i would point out that the proposed legislation creates a wide scope for financial manipulation with serious societal implications.
in 2006, the european socialists put forward proposals to reduce the likelihood and severity of future systemic crises. the right wing of the european parliament, together with the eurosceptics, rejected us with the words: "the market will solve everything". he didn't. that's why banks that fail have to be bailed out by people who didn't cause the problems. nice law of the market, when the profits are shared by the bank owners and the losses are shared by everyone. when the richest people keep their money in tax havens and everyone else pays for their greed. the aim of resolution must be to protect depositors, to ensure that essential financial services can continue and to ensure the stability of the financial system. the moral hazard should be reduced by ensuring that failing institutions have only a minimal reliance on public financial support. the shareholders and creditors of failing banks and investment companies must bear these losses. it will also give them an incentive to monitor their banks more closely.
in writing. we are all consumers of the internal market and thus weaker players in the market that need to be protected. balanced regulation protects the health and safety of consumers from commercial excesses and provides a framework for the legitimate operation of businesses. the proposal for a regulation will help to ensure that the rules are applied uniformly in all member states. in the committee on legal affairs, we have produced an opinion that contributes to ensuring a high level of consumer protection in the eu. we considered it particularly important to protect the interests of consumer groups at risk when using products, such as children, the elderly and persons with disabilities. it is the unavoidable duty of manufacturers and importers to guarantee the safety of their products. in this context, they should ensure that products bear an indication of the country of origin and the ingredients. in the past, the identification of products from other member states has required more care, including language barriers. linguistic diversity may have arrived in this area most rapidly, crossing borders. the need for improvement does not stop there: each product must be marked with easily visible and easily understandable identification features.
in writing - consumer protection is effective only if consumer rights can also be enforced. raising consumer awareness of their rights therefore plays a key role in achieving a high level of consumer protection. in the case of supplier services, more attention needs to be paid to the protection of their rights, as these are services that are essential for people's lives and their social and cultural integration into european society. these are mainly the four major sectors that have been liberalised in recent years and largely integrated into the internal market: energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services. in the case of these services, consumers do not decide whether to use them, but only from which provider they order them. this often creates an unequal relationship between the provider on the one hand and the consumer on the other.
in writing - the introduction of a deposit protection scheme, as well as a further package of measures to protect consumers from bank misconduct within the eu, is a cornerstone in building an effective banking union. throughout the 13 years of the euro area's existence, it has been demonstrated that only a common approach will sustain the euro area during a possible banking crisis. i also support the new deposit protection scheme because it sets out rules that, in the event of the failure of any bank in an eu member state, will ensure that deposits up to €100,000 are protected by the banks themselves, without the burden falling on taxpayers and people saving for a better future. this guarantee ensures that consumers' deposits remain safe and that they pay for their own mistakes in the management of the bank. the new instrument we have approved today introduces preventive measures that will enable the euro area to recognise and address an impending problem in the banking sector before it can develop into a difficult and consumer-constraining situation. i am glad that the previously unregulated banking sector and the irresponsible behavior of some banks can now be called a thing of the past. however, in my view, it is equally necessary to ensure that the frustration of the less-performing banks is not reflected in the level of fees charged to their clients.
in writing. - to accelerate europe's dependency on oil and decarbonisation, common technical specifications for alternative fuels infrastructure should be defined. this will not only stimulate economic growth, but also strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. our long-term objectives must include decarbonising the transport sector, where more than 90% of the energy used comes from oil, of which more than 84% is imported oil. the development of the alternative fuels market is currently facing technological and commercial deficiencies. in many cases, the lack of common basic technical specifications hinders interoperability and the lack of appropriate infrastructure. different technological solutions applied in different parts of europe have led to fragmentation of the internal market. a sound policy framework with binding targets is therefore essential for the successful deployment of infrastructure capable of meeting the energy needs of all modes of transport. to facilitate the market integration of new technologies, adequate research and development funds should be made available and the european market should continue to play a strong leading role in such initiatives. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
written - the directive setting maximum weights and dimensions for vehicles carrying oversized cargo should specifically target vehicles with a length of 25 metres and a weight of 60 tonnes. although these vehicles are currently only allowed in scandinavia, the netherlands and certain parts of germany, in the light of a study carried out under the auspices of the european commission, we must be aware of the potential risk of their use on european roads. these trucks pose a threat not only to road users but also to the environment, given the amount of co2 emissions they emit when transporting oversized cargo. i very much agree with the rapporteur's view that freight transport is a railway activity. however, if this option cannot be provided due to certain transport obstacles, carriers should consider combined transport. of course, i fully understand the concerns of the hauliers about making their work more difficult, but human life, as well as our safety on the roads, must remain our priority. our efforts should be directed towards the preparation of legislation aimed at reducing emissions, for example by improving the aerodynamic shape of vehicle cabs. preventing accidents, improving road safety and minimising road risks are and will always be my top priorities when adopting legislation concerning road users, to which we all belong.
in writing - i supported the draft directive on payment accounts mainly because it strengthens the position of bank customers. the most important change i see is greater transparency of fees and conditions for payment accounts, which will allow customers to compare more easily. the transition to competition offering better conditions should also be facilitated. lastly, the directive also introduces the right to open a basic payment account. this means that no bank will be able to refuse to open a basic account to someone who is legally resident in the eu. this is particularly important for increasing the mobility of eu citizens.
in writing - what ? the number of cases brought before the general court has been steadily increasing as the court's powers have been gradually extended. this prolongs the proceedings and increases the number of pending cases. such a situation is contrary to the requirements of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu and in particular to article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which governs the right to a fair trial. the high burden on the general court resulting from the excessive volume and complexity of the actions brought needs to be addressed urgently, as the nature of many disputes requires a rapid decision and delays in reaching a decision constitute a form of denial of justice. i agree that the necessary solution is to increase the number of judges in the general court. as regards the appointment of new judges, i am of the opinion that geographical balance must be maintained in order to preserve the multicultural diversity on which the eu is founded. in conclusion, i call on all the institutions concerned to act promptly, as the strengthening of judicial posts is urgent.
in writing - as a doctor and a human being, i welcome the proposal to introduce an eu-wide interoperable ecall system which is automatically activated after a serious accident has been recorded and automatically calls the emergency number 112, thus bringing the emergency services to the exact scene of the accident. in traffic accidents, the minute is life and death. it is therefore vital that the emergency services have accurate navigation to the accident site. the introduction of ecall can be expected to improve road safety and, above all, to reduce the number of accident victims. for the reasons set out above, i am voting in favour of the report and i hope that ecall will soon be operational in all member states.
in writing - the demographic ageing of the population, which is a pan-european phenomenon, cannot be reversed overnight. i therefore supported the proposal for the active and assisted living programme, which aims to promote the development of new information and communication technologies to ensure a decent ageing for a growing number of older people. but i also believe that such solutions are simply putting out a fire that is spreading with a glass of water. real sustainable solutions are based on promoting the natural family across all policies. only then can the aging process be reversed.
written - the research and development programme for small and medium-sized enterprises carrying out research is a welcome response to the increasing number of applications from enterprises which could not be met favourably in the previous period due to budget constraints. i support the provisions aimed at aligning horizon 2020 research and innovation with the programme in question in order to avoid overlapping requirements and unnecessary administrative burden for smes, which should focus their activities more on creative market functioning. i believe that these measures will lead to an increase in innovative solutions and the competitiveness of smes, which are the backbone of the european economy and major providers of employment in all regions.
in writing - smes are the backbone of the european economy. they account for up to 98%[nbsp ] of all businesses in the eu and employ up to two thirds of the workforce. the specific sub-group consists of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises focusing on research and development. this focus carries with it an increased risk of return on investment and therefore this type of enterprise often has difficulty in raising the necessary capital. the eurostars joint programme was created in 2008 to address this problem. the draft decision proposed allows this programme to continue under the new multiannual financial framework and i therefore supported it.
in writing, the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership programme is intended to contribute to the reduction of poverty-related diseases and neglected infectious diseases, which may also spread further to european countries. the commission and the member states make a significant financial contribution to research into diseases and, through their activities, accelerate the clinical development of effective, safe and accessible medical interventions and medicines adapted to the specificities of developing countries. this meritorious activity must meet all the requirements for the protection of human rights. i therefore consider it necessary to strengthen the role of ethics committees and to establish sufficient safeguards to ensure respect for human rights in clinical trials. i believe it is absolutely essential that informed consent be obtained from patients before any intervention in a clinical trial and that it be genuinely informed and voluntary. projects funded by horizon 2020 shall not be in breach of the eu charter of fundamental rights and other international instruments by which the union is bound.
in writing, article 11 (2) teu clearly states that the eu institutions shall maintain an open, transparent and regular dialogue with representative associations and civil society. such direct dialogue is essential for the proper functioning of democracy and therefore requires the establishment of a reliable mechanism to govern its conduct. i believe that all eu institutions must guarantee transparency at all stages of the law-making process at union level. given the large number of businesses, organisations and individuals who seek to influence the eu's policy-making and implementation processes on a daily basis, i believe that there is a need to introduce stricter and more ambitious transparency criteria. the current voluntary transparency register does not appear to be very effective. i therefore support the introduction of a mandatory register which would set equal rules for all. in this respect, i call on the commission to define an appropriate legal basis.
in writing - i supported the changes to the existing interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register, as i regarded them as a further step towards transparency in the adoption of european legislation. it is important for citizens to know who is trying to influence eu legislation and on whose behalf. these are legitimate activities, but they must be conducted according to certain rules in order to exclude corruption and clientelism. these rules must apply equally to the european parliament and to the commission.
in writing. - the multiannual financial framework sets annual ceilings for all eu expenditure and for eu expenditure by policy area. the main objective is to achieve a high degree of predictability and regularity of expenditure, while respecting the ceilings of the union's own resources. on 2 december 2013, the regulation on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and the interinstitutional agreement were formally adopted by the council. parliament defined five main points: the sufficient level of resources, flexibility, post-election adjustment, own resources and budgetary unity. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 sets the overall ceiling for commitment appropriations at eur 960 billion and the overall ceiling for payment appropriations at eur 908 billion. these figures represent 1,00% and 0,95% of the union's gni respectively, according to the 2012 spring forecast of the union's gni. in the last round of negotiations, a further specific flexibility was introduced to tackle youth unemployment and strengthen research, allowing for the advance of expenditure in 2014/15 in areas such as youth employment, research, erasmus and smes. this is a very important element and outcome of the negotiations which can improve the current situation by reducing youth unemployment and stimulating entrepreneurship and development in europe. that's why i supported the report.
in writing, the agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the years 2014 to 2020 was the result of long and complicated negotiations that lasted almost two and a half years. but the result is not satisfactory. the total amount of the new multiannual budget represents a reduction of commitments of 3,5% and payments of 3,7% compared to the 2007-2013 financial framework, despite the enlargement of the union to 28 member states and the strengthening of the eu's powers under the lisbon treaty. given that the budget aims to strengthen the economy and its competitiveness, to invest in the development of the regions and to strengthen european solidarity, i consider the budget cuts to be counterproductive. the budget must reflect democratically determined political objectives and respect the commitments the eu has made to its citizens, businesses and other partners. i therefore welcome this report, which assesses the progress of the mff negotiations, and i call on all the institutions to draw conclusions from this report for future negotiations, in which there is a need to respect more the position of parliament as the only directly elected institution.
dear officer, dear colleagues! the importance of supplementary pension schemes is beyond doubt given the increasing importance of self-employment. the basic pension schemes are still largely linked to the 'pay as you go' system, the sustainability of which is in doubt due to demographic developments. complementary employment schemes vary widely from one member state to another and in some member states they are virtually non-existent. the development and harmonisation of european standards for pension schemes is a particularly complex and demanding task, also because of the very different legal environment. the portability of entitlements across member states' borders, some important definitions such as the standardisation of the age limit, the uniform treatment of access to latent retirement rights are therefore very important steps forward. at european level, several important steps have been taken recently to preserve and strengthen the single labour market. this legal provision is one of those which help to remove the obstacles to the free movement of labour. the complexity of the issue is further demonstrated by the fact that the draft law sets a deadline of four years for transposition into national legal systems. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ria oomen-ruijten, for her many years of thorough and demanding work on the interoperability of social systems, including pension systems.
in writing. on 28 june 2014, europe and the world will commemorate the 100th anniversary of the assassination of archduke franz ferdinand of habsburg, heir to the throne of the austro-hungarian monarchy. this act became the pretext for the outbreak of what came to be called the "world" war. there is not a single town or village in europe that does not have a monument to the local people who gave their lives in that war. the treaty of versailles, however, did not bring peace and prosperity to europe. on the contrary, it created the conditions for the rise of national socialism, which unleashed another, even more terrible war. the treaty of versailles reminds us that to end conflict between nations, it is not enough to conclude a ceasefire and establish a truce. reconciliation is needed. today's european union is the fruit of a genuine reconciliation of the peoples of europe. it is the fruit of forgiveness, not of forgetfulness. her future - and ours - depends on our ability to remember and forgive each other.
there is a consensus in the room: russia is pursuing an imperial and aggressive policy. it must be stopped by direct and strict sanctions, by a rapid and radical change in energy policy, but, colleagues, the european union, let us realise this, has also become a gravitational force attracting the countries of the balkans, eastern europe, the european caucasus. russian imperialism shows that the eastern partnership must be secured and guaranteed by the strength of the european union. the european union is also obliged to ensure the security of the eastern partnership members. this requires the rapid transformation of the european union from a soft power into a real force capable of protecting the security and interests of even non-nato states that are interested in embarking on the european path and moving closer to the european union, and eventually becoming members of the european union. this is something we all need to realize.
in writing. - eu citizens working in another member state will be able to exercise supplementary pension rights abroad. a supplementary occupational pension is made up of contributions from the employer and the employee and can represent a significant contribution to the state pension and personal savings. these rights have so far been waived if they have worked in another member state for more than three years. the new directive, which i voted for, will thus remove another obstacle to the free movement of workers between member states. the entry into force of the directive will also reduce the minimum period of participation in the supplementary pension scheme from five years to three years, after which the worker will acquire supplementary occupational pension rights.
in writing - food and feed law has a significant and direct impact on the daily lives and health of eu citizens and as such deserves particular attention from legislators setting the rules for practice. with rapidly changing conditions on the agricultural products market, the need has arisen to face new challenges arising from complex production and trade relationships in a globalised world. in particular, i welcome the fact that legislation on product quality and safety controls has been revised and modernised. we cannot allow the food fraud scandals we have seen with horse meat or contaminated organic vegetables to be repeated. in this respect, i support the introduction of sufficiently high fines for undertakings, which should not only be punitive in a particular case of infringement, but also deterrent and preventive towards all producers.
writing - i consider the food industry to be one of the most important and dynamic sectors in the eu, employing over 48 million people. although the food and feed safety sector has achieved many positive results in recent years, i believe that the new conditions and risks presented by the global market force us to create a sufficiently flexible and safe control system within the food chain. i supported the report, although i did not agree with some of the amendments, because i believe that the proposals put forward can not only simplify the current legal framework, but can also guarantee the uniform application of the rules relating to the agri-food chain throughout the eu and the smooth functioning of the internal market. i also welcome proposals and measures to improve the functioning of administrative assistance and the mutual exchange of information on risk products on the market between member states, which will enable cross-border breaches of the rules relating to the food chain to be traced and measures subsequently taken to achieve the highest possible level of food and feed safety and thus of health and consumer protection.
written - the report on the draft animal health regulation brings long-awaited provisions on the prevention and control of animal diseases that can be transmitted between animals and to humans. the need for a directly effective eu regulation has become urgent in view of the many worrying developments related to the rapid spread of diseases from one member state to another resulting from an open internal market. in order to protect public health and food safety, a coordinated common approach is necessary. i support stricter measures to control the sources of infection and disease surveillance. of course, the best way to fight diseases remains to prevent and reduce overall the incidence of diseases that have devastating consequences not only for the animals themselves, but also for farmers, agriculture and ultimately consumers. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing - what ? in the field of consumer product safety, the current directive has not proved to be very successful, as it has been transposed and applied by member states in a very different way. in order to enhance consumer protection and to make the overall product safety legislation in the eu more transparent, i consider the proposed regulation to be necessary to ensure legal certainty and to create a level playing field in the internal market for all businesses and consumers. i fully support the requirement of mandatory indication of the country of origin. consumers have the right to truthful information on the origin of products in order to make an informed decision before purchasing them. as regards measures against dangerous products, i am in favour of the introduction of sufficiently high dissuasive penalties, which take account of the seriousness of the infringement, its duration, the size of the company or the possibility of recurrence.
in writing - we all know the "made in china" labels. the consumer knows what the goods are, knows the country of origin and knows what quality to expect from the product at first glance. today we are witnessing the approval of the 'made in' label for goods produced and sold within the european union's single market. however, this measure is only one of a series of proposals aimed at strengthening the safety and monitoring of consumer goods in the european union. i strongly believe that european consumers have the right to know what they are consuming and therefore fully support the strengthening of safety requirements for product quality. this will prevent the influx of dangerous products onto the european market, while introducing sanctions against companies that do not respect quality rules. we are therefore putting the finger on the pulse of producers and distributors of, say, antibiotic-treated poultry meat. in today's first reading, we supported, with our position on the commission's proposal on consumer product safety, provisions which would give national authorities responsible for consumer protection wider powers in the area of product safety supervision, of course within the limits of the regulation. i believe that by defining terms such as non-compliant product or by making national controls mandatory, consumers will avoid products that pose a health risk and will have a clearer idea of the contents of their shopping cart.
in writing - what ? small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of our economy and currently account for almost 85% of new jobs created, with 20.7 million of them creating more than 67% of private sector jobs in the eu. i therefore find the situation concerning the administrative burden on smes and in particular the fact that the personnel costs for compliance with regulatory obligations are often ten times higher for smes than for large enterprises, worrying. such conditions have a very negative impact on job creation and employment security, reduce the competitiveness of smes and discourage entrepreneurship. in the legislative process, we must therefore ensure that the regulatory burden on smes is minimised and that the legislation is adapted to their needs. in my experience in the regions, access to european funds for smes needs to be facilitated. i therefore welcome the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes and the sme instrument created under horizon 2020. i also consider the launch of the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs to be a very positive step towards developing entrepreneurial potential.
in writing. - what ? on the basis of several initiatives, the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services directive has been found to be inadequate and does not address the problems of social dumping. the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place must be clearly established in european union law. it is for the member states to monitor its implementation and to combat any fraud and circumvention on their territory. since the posting of workers is a cross-border activity, the competent authorities of several states must be involved in its supervision. i therefore consider it essential to improve crossborder cooperation and to introduce effective measures to combat social dumping. exported workers are often exploited, lack sufficient information about their rights in the host country, and cross-border enforcement of their rights is unnecessarily time-consuming and costly. for the reasons stated above, i had hoped that the european parliament's report on the enforcement directive would clearly set out a system of common obligations for subcontractors in all sectors and would advocate the unambiguous protection of posted workers by adopting the most favourable rules scheme for workers in the host country.
in writing - what ? despite the fact that there are currently a number of tools available to combat trafficking in cultural goods, their effectiveness is low. the european union's 1993 directive failed to tackle this third most widespread form of trafficking in terms of revenue. the directive laid down the conditions for the return of cultural goods, which are also considered national treasures, unlawfully removed from the territory of a state after the abolition of the internal borders of the european union. we must be aware that the opening up of the internal market has, on the one hand, given individuals the four fundamental freedoms, but on the other hand, has made the process of returning cultural objects designated as national cultural treasures more difficult. however, in many member states the very concept of national cultural heritage is not defined. for this reason, i am aware of the complexity of the procedure itself for returning the items in question to their country of origin. i hope that the new electronic tool for eu administrative cooperation, also known as the internal market information system, will also help countries to obtain information on exported or previously stolen cultural goods. i support the revision of the current directive because i believe that only by introducing clear rules and cooperation between member states will we be able to tackle the illegal trade in cultural goods, which has become increasingly prevalent in recent years.
in writing - the available statistics provide startling information about the careless handling of paychecks. the average european uses around 200 plastic bags a year, with almost 90% of them ending up in waste after a single use. such practices are not only harmful to the environment, due to the large amounts of waste and pollutants that they release into the environment, including water, but also highly inefficient in terms of resource use. as the recyclability of plastic carrier bags is very low, it is necessary to encourage operators to avoid waste and to favour more environmentally friendly substitutes. charging for the use of bags also appears to be an effective measure against excessive consumption of bags. in my vote i supported the provisions to protect human health from the hazardous substances that are often used in the production of plastic bags. these are substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or harmful to reproduction and substances that are endocrine disruptors.
in writing - the current use of single-use plastics is convenient, but also very inefficient and environmentally harmful. only 6.6 percent of plastic bags are recycled, and they can last hundreds of years in the environment. that's why i advocate the use of reusable bags made from eco-friendly materials. it is not a matter of debate that almost no european leaves a shop without a plastic bag. statistics say that in five minutes, one million new plastic bags are used in the european union. but most of them, when they've served their purpose, go straight to the trash. however, given the burden that such waste places on the environment and our seas, it seems logical to me to establish basic rules for reducing its consumption at european level. despite the efforts of some fast food chains to obtain an exemption for the use of plastic bags for delivery services, i am pleased that we have managed to vote for the same rules for all retailers. we have not introduced anything with this directive today that was not already there. we all know from personal experience that even a minimal charge for plastic bags will make most of us not throw away a reusable bag when we next buy, and at the same time, we will be more environmentally friendly.
in writing - i supported the proposal to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastics, because i consider their huge single use to be a source of threat to the quality of the environment, but also to the aesthetics of the space in which we live. under the adopted directive, it is for the member states to use economic instruments such as taxes and levies, as well as trade restrictions and prohibitions, to achieve this objective. plastic bags are an environmental burden and should not be provided free of charge. the exception is the packaging of loose foodstuffs such as meat, fish or cheese. as a result of these measures, by 2019, disposable 'gig bags' and microten bags should be replaced by recycled paper bags or by bags that are biodegradable and compostable.
in writing - i voted in favour of the proposal for funding of european political parties and foundations, because it is the result of a broad political agreement which takes account of the need to preserve political pluralism and at the same time allows for a rigorous and strict control of the way the budgetary resources are used. the model adopted does not discriminate between any party and allows for the preservation and further development of diversity of opinion in european politics.
in writing - fraudulent conduct prejudicial to the financial interests of the union causes losses to the union budget and thus also constitutes a detriment to the taxpayers who contribute to the budget. i consider it necessary to ensure that, in the european area of freedom, security and justice, offenders are punished fairly, regardless of the member state in which they are located. experience has shown that the relocation of offenders has depended on the favourable legal systems of the member states. the means of civil and administrative law are not sufficient to ensure the effective protection of the eu's financial interests, in particular the fight against fraud, active and passive corruption and embezzlement, and i therefore agree to the introduction of criminal law protection. i also support the introduction of minimum levels of sanctions in the directive.
the european union is an association of sovereign nation states which have voluntarily decided to cooperate and to delegate some of their competences to the jointly constituted bodies and institutions of the union. member states shall, at their discretion and in accordance with their needs, delegate to the institutions of the union the tasks they require to be carried out, even with a proportionate financial envelope for the material provision of those tasks. as long as the european institutions respect the mandate thus defined, they have no reason to claim additional authorisations to raise own resources. i therefore fully agree with the council's position, which rejected the commission's proposals for new own resources based on value added tax and financial transaction tax. the european institutions are to carry out only those coordination and servicing activities which have been requested by the member states. they have no right to build behind the backs of the member states a new power centre in brussels with a sprawling, growing administration supported by their own sources of revenue. the citizens of the european union, as far as i know, have not yet agreed to any transformation of the union into a state entity. therefore, the extension of the european institutions' claims to new own funds is totally unjustified.
in writing - the relationship between the european parliament and national parliaments is directly governed by the provisions of the treaty on european union, in particular article 5 on the delegation of powers and subsidiarity, article 10 (1) and (2) on representative democracy and the representation of eu citizens, and in particular article 12 on the role of national parliaments. five years have passed since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, but relations between the european parliament and national parliaments have not yet fully developed. for example, the so-called 'yellow card' has only been used twice so far. strengthening inter-parliamentary relations would be appropriate in order to strengthen democratic legitimacy and overall improve the quality of legislation adopted at eu level, which many citizens perceive as too distant. in my vote i supported the report presented, which analyses the relationship between national parliaments and the european parliament, and i hope that it will draw the right conclusions leading to a deepening of relations between them after the forthcoming european elections, with a view to deepening the idea of european integration.
in writing - freedom of movement and the ability to find a job in any eu member state is one of the main pillars of a common europe. i therefore supported the proposal to extend cooperation between european public employment services. i also agree with the committee of the regions that good and best practice often emerges at local and regional level. effective public employment services can make a significant contribution to tackling the pressing problem of high youth unemployment. this is where a higher level of cooperation with the social partners and other public, private and non-profit stakeholders is important.
in writing - the solidarity fund is a concrete expression of european solidarity towards member states affected by natural disasters. however, in the light of past experience of its operation in 23 member states, this instrument required some modernisation. i have already pointed out in the past the need for a more rapid administrative procedure in assessing the conditions for granting funds, which have so far proved to be rather lengthy for the affected areas. i trust that the affected states will also appreciate the possibility of drawing a certain advance before the final amount of the financial contribution is calculated. i am pleased that today's vote has adopted provisions which will shorten administrative time limits in favour of the affected countries. i also regard the possibility of using support for smaller regional natural disasters as a positive sign of flexibility. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of the report on the eu solidarity fund.
in writing - solidarity is one of the most important european values. i supported the report because we in slovakia have had experience with floods and have seen that if aid for natural disasters is to be effective, it must be fast. the reform of the eu solidarity fund will allow member states to draw up to 10%[nbsp ] of the estimated amount of aid immediately. the criteria for approving aid for smaller regional disasters will also be simplified.
in writing - i have supported the commission's proposal to grant macro-financial assistance to the republic of tunisia. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the tunisian authorities in accordance with the provisions of the agreement on the european economic area ('the agreement'). it is also intended to facilitate the adoption of structural reforms to improve the macroeconomic situation of the country. the payment of this assistance should be strictly in accordance with the budgetary rules and should be conditional on the implementation of the reform measures agreed in the memorandum of understanding between the commission and tunisia. it should be borne in mind that it is in the eu's interest that the countries belonging to the mediterranean region are economically and politically stable. only in this way can the great waves of illegal migrants to europe be prevented.
our task is not only to support different religions, but above all freedom of religion and[nbsp]worldview. secularism does not mean atheism or that society should be secular. conversely, the state must be secular, and that is to ensure freedom for all faiths and beliefs. it is the duty of the state to ensure this freedom and, by virtue of civil society, also the privacy of citizens, which is their religion. the state must be secular solely to ensure freedom of worldview, and not to favor any faith. that's the whole point of tolerance. the role of the state as a guarantor of freedom of thought must be an instrument of the european union's foreign policy. defending freedom for all religions, but also for conversion. it seems obvious, but it's not obvious even to us in europe. attempts to enshrine exclusively christian values in the constitution , as in the [hungarian] constitution , are a warning to us.
for the efd group with the increasing amount of waste produced by our society, the amount of hazardous waste that is illegally exported to third countries is also increasing. according to available studies and analyses, organised criminal groups are linked to the waste management sector, generating substantial profits from the illegal transfer of waste. the ever-growing illegal black market in waste is mainly due to the poorly organised structure of waste management mechanisms, which allows fraudsters to get rich on the significantly lower costs of waste treatment, especially in developing countries. we therefore need to radically improve our approach to waste disposal organisation, improve waste movement records and strengthen control mechanisms so as to significantly reduce the space and illegal waste management practices as recommended in the report presented. ladies and gentlemen, as today is the last day of the seventh parliamentary term of the european parliament and the last time we meet in this composition, let me wish you all the best of luck and success in your future personal and professional lives. thank you for your attention.
in writing - what ? in order to ensure the proper functioning of competition in the internal market, it is appropriate to establish an effective system of enforcement by means of administrative, civil and, where appropriate, criminal law. in many countries, private law actions for damages have proven to be an effective means of ensuring better compliance with competition rules, alongside public law enforcement. the two mechanisms are complementary insofar as their interaction is coherently adjusted. at eu level, we have been negotiating the introduction of common rules for actions for damages for infringements of competition rules for about a decade. i welcome the proposal for a directive because i am convinced that it will open the way for many consumers and businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, who have been harmed, to exercise their right to compensation for the damage caused by infringements of competition law.
in writing - i supported the draft regulation on new psychoactive substances because they pose a health, social and safety risk. in several member states, including slovakia, sales and consumption have increased sharply in recent years, especially among young people. the rapid emergence and spread of these substances has so far been met with a mixed response from member states, which has complicated the functioning of the single market. the new regulation addresses this problem. substances suspected of posing an immediate risk to public health will be temporarily withdrawn from the consumer market until a risk assessment by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is available. when the risk assessment is completed, measures shall be taken which are proportionate to the risks associated with the substances concerned. these measures will be graded according to whether the risk is assessed as low, moderate or severe.
in writing - what ? i supported the motion for a resolution on eu foreign policy in a world of cultural and religious diversity, because it contains several commendable ideas that undoubtedly deserve support. in particular, i would like to call on all member states to repeal legislation that is contrary to the fundamental freedoms of religion, conscience and expression. the existence of such legislation is no longer a secret, and we see that it has resulted in discrimination against christians in several eu member states. i understand that the resolution of this parliament does not bind the member states in any way. but it does provide a space for us to ask about the state of religious freedom and freedom of conscience in individual countries and to demand explanations.
in writing - i supported the joint resolution of parliament on the situation in eastern ukraine. it is important that the european union responds to current events in the neighbouring partner country with determination and unanimity. the adoption of economic sanctions against the russian federation and tougher sanctions against its individual representatives should be a first step. in order to avoid further escalation of tensions, concrete measures against russian companies and their subsidiaries, in particular in the energy sector, as well as against russian investments and assets in the eu, should also be considered.
mr president, i strongly support this resolution and all the efforts of the international community to urgently find a solution to the dire situation in syria. there are crimes committed by both sides of this conflict; millions of innocent people are being victimised. with 12[nbsp ]000 people fleeing syria every week and already 2.6 million displaced externally and 6.5 million internally, this humanitarian crisis is quickly rising to the top of the gravest disasters of modern times. everybody is targeted, including the innocent and vulnerable individuals and ethnic and religious minorities such as christians. to resolve the situation there must be a syrian-led political and democratic solution, with strong backing from the international community. of course the wheels of justice must catch up with all those responsible from both sides of this terrible conflict.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me congratulate the authors of this resolution. there is an acute need to maintain public pressure on these gross and widespread violators of human rights; many of their acts constitute crimes against humanity. i therefore welcome the report of the commission of inquiry that summarises all these gross breaches of human rights and in doing so informs and educates the broad public. the international community must persuade all relevant actors, including the people’s republic of china, to contribute to drastic reductions of all these violations. the prc has a great influence on north korea and can play an important role in reforming this country. last but not least, i would like to see all those responsible for these massive crimes against their own people being brought to justice.
in writing italy holds the eu presidency of the council of the european union since 1 july 2014, replacing greece. the italian presidency comes shortly after elections marked by record low turnout and a significant strengthening of positions for extremist, far-right and left-wing parties. this result was to be expected, as the european institutions failed to respond quickly enough to the economic and financial crisis, and we failed to convince the citizens of the member states that we could help them with their everyday problems. as a result, citizens' trust in the eu institutions is logically declining. i believe that the deepening of the monetary union as well as a deeper focus on the 2020 strategy should be among the main priorities of the presidency. it is important that competition policy is reviewed, because european businesses need to lend a helping hand. the problem of youth employment persists in europe and it will therefore be important to ensure that the youth guarantee, which is to bring in so many needed jobs, is properly implemented. the ukrainian crisis and the eu's energy independence problems should not be forgotten. it is therefore clear that the italian presidency is facing a demanding six months. the european union is facing new challenges and problems that need to be addressed urgently. together we must show the european citizens that we are able to help them with their everyday problems and that we stand by them.
italy presented a very ambitious plan for its presidency. i appreciate that it has followed up the greek presidency in many areas and will focus on growth, unemployment and migration. the southern states cannot remain isolated in legal and illegal migration, but this issue must be addressed on a pan-european basis. there is a need to strengthen cooperation between countries of origin and transit, but also to combat illegal immigration through a more coherent legal migration policy. in setting the priorities, italy also very clearly identified the problem of smes, namely access to credit and financing. i also welcome the promotion theme of expo 2015 in milan, 'food for the planet, energy for life', and the emphasis on food policy, food labelling and food chain management and nutrition. i am convinced that italy, in cooperation with the new parliament, will manage its role as president very well.
mr president, i am a new member from slovakia and represent the hungarian community, which makes up 10% of the total population of my country. in the two reformist governments of slovakia i was deputy prime minister and was responsible for the successful integration of my country into the european family, which would have been totally unacceptable without the support of my voters. in 2008, when the ratification process of the lisbon treaty was blocked in slovakia, it was again my party, the hungarian minority party, which was in opposition at the time, that helped to adopt this crucial document. for these reasons, i think i can rightly ask that this parliament devote more attention to historical european minorities. i believe that if this parliament deals with these questions with the necessary understanding our common europe will be stronger and more credible to its citizens.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mrs harms! i understand that one of the conditions imposed by the eu for the signing of the association agreement with ukraine was that ukraine should not sign a customs agreement with russia. if so, i would like to ask you what you think about it.
the vilnius process has made the european union a real geopolitical player with a great deal of appeal. the paradox is that the eu itself did not expect this. but it was russia that figured it out faster. the eu's appeal has broken russia's geopolitical sphere of influence game. russian foreign policy has attempted to operate within the borders of the former soviet union through a system of spheres of influence. the vilnius process has broken this plan and seriously paralysed it. it is from this angle that we must look at the situation in ukraine, but also in moldova and georgia. in all three cases, we may be faced with a russian attempt to resolve the situation by military force. the european union must prepare for this, diplomatically as well as militarily. this also requires a completely new approach to eu policy towards russia. this is a new challenge for us members, for afet, but also for the commission.
ukraine is a major test for the eu and its foreign policy. we need a stable and democratic ukraine, but also a partner with whom we share values. that is why it was important to sign the association agreement. but the eu should go further. ukraine needs our support on the international stage and it is in our interest that the conflict in eastern ukraine be resolved and not deepened further. the eu must be active in this respect in all international fora. relations with ukraine, but also with other eastern partners, are partly tied to relations with russia. we have to be united here. i regret that europe has not yet been able to move forward as a united front on energy security. our disunity gives russia an opportunity to use energy as a political weapon. such a course is dangerous for the whole of europe in the long run. unless we are united, we will pass this test weakened.
we've made this debate about the situation in ukraine a bit of a russophobic debate, so if you'll excuse me, i want to make two comments on this: first of all, i would like to ask mr füle, who is here on behalf of the commission, and i join tanja ždanok in saying that it is inexcusable that mrs ashton is not present at this debate. so i want to ask the commission and the council, through you, mr füle, to define very clearly how the losses to the countries that provide the reverse flow of gas will be compensated. i come from a small country, slovakia, our country will provide reverse flow gas to ukraine, but i want to have guarantees for compensation for our country. the second point is that the solutions we are now adopting must take account of human rights aspects, but in all their forms and aspects human rights and human rights protection also belong to minorities. all the minorities in ukraine, and if we ever want to have a really stable situation in ukraine, for ukraine to prosper, then it is imperative that we also ensure the security of the russian minority living in ukraine.
in writing. the events in ukraine in recent months have once again brought to our attention the fact that the settlement of national and ethnic issues is a key factor both within and outside europe. i welcome the debate in parliament on the situation in ukraine and call on the eu institutions to do everything possible to bring about an early settlement to the conflict. stabilisation and democratisation of ukraine cannot be achieved without the support of the european union. the basis for european cooperation and peaceful coexistence is mutual respect for the sovereignty of nations and solidarity with one another. this message should be conveyed by the european union to its non-eu negotiating partners. i am speaking as a hungarian politician from slovakia, as a person who knows the problems of minorities. i would like to mention the fact that there is a significant hungarian community in transcarpathia, ukraine. the possibility of asserting their rights, along with those of other national and linguistic minorities living there, must be part of future democratic processes. this can be achieved by the european union working as quickly as possible to achieve the recognition and practical application of fundamental human rights in ukraine, including linguistic and minority rights.
the transatlantic relationship is currently on a very thin ice. the ttip is one of our biggest international challenges. parliament and the commission have a new mandate, and we have a unique opportunity to move forward. our job is to approach the u.s. as a partner and an ally. it will be important to negotiate an agreement that reflects the benefits to both parties. the negotiations must be transparent and clearly communicated to our citizens. the european parliament will have the final say in the adoption of this agreement. but this agreement must respect our demands and will not be finalized at any cost. we will stand for a balanced and fair free trade agreement. when it comes to protecting europeans' personal data or the safety of our food, we must think of our citizens, from whom we have a mandate, and therefore protect their interests.
, in writing. ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, the debate cannot be about whether trade makes sense. because there was trade, any company could develop. that was true hundreds of years ago, it is true today, and it will be true in the future. when we fully implement the us-eu agreement, the added value for the european economy under the more optimistic scenario of the european commission's estimates will be €120 billion per year, which equals 0.5% of the european union's gdp. this will bring in €545 per year for each household in europe. this growth will be helped in particular by the removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers to goods and services. even under the worst-case scenario, the eu's gdp would increase by more than eur 68 billion per year and the united states' gdp by almost eur 50 billion. this will bring more than 1.5 million new skilled jobs to the eu and the us combined. this will bring new opportunities for trade and services and improve opportunities for new investment for european smes. ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon gave the european parliament the power to ratify such treaties. i hope we will take this opportunity to send a positive signal to national parliaments.
i was the shadow rapporteur on the proposal for an amendment to the directive on the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding. the original 2008 text was limited to improving the working conditions of pregnant and breastfeeding women in paid employment. but in this parliament the text has begun to change, and in a substantial way. the requirement for gender equality introduced by the commission there led to the extension of the scope of the paternity leave, adoption and other requirements directives. parliament finally adopted a position which went far beyond the original framework of the amendment, even though it was clear that member states would never support such a text. for example, the income of women during maternity leave is defined differently in each member state and may come from different sources: insurance, the employer or the state itself. the amount of this income also varies and finding a workable european compromise is virtually impossible. the significant extension of this directive in the european parliament has meant that it has ultimately failed to raise the existing european standard of protection of pregnant and breastfeeding women in the labour market. i would therefore support the commission's decision to withdraw and reconsider the proposal. let this be a lesson to us in the future that the documents we receive should remain true to their title. i am in favour of introducing a mandatory six-week maternity leave in the european union, as recommended by the world health organisation. during this period, the woman should receive a full salary, and for the next 12 to 14 weeks, member states should, within the limits of their economies, provide financial support for all women who choose to continue caring for the child. the principle of subsidiarity should be strictly respected.
in writing. i find it very unfortunate that the commission is considering stopping the legislative process on the introduction of extended maternity leave, which it plans to abolish under the refit regulatory fitness and performance programme. this practice is regressive and endangers women's rights and gender equality. it is very sad that even in the 21st century, women are punished for childbirth by their employers instead of being given the right conditions. i am definitely in favour of extending maternity leave from the current 14 weeks to 20 and i also think that employers should guarantee mothers a return to their previous jobs. i do not understand the commission's approach, because the vast majority of large multinationals are not against this increase in maternity leave. i strongly reject the further breakdown of social rights due to the economic and financial crisis, because in slovenia alone, for example, the amount that mothers used to receive during parental leave has been reduced by 90% in recent years. i firmly believe that the european commission will not succumb to the growing conservative, religious and far-right lobby and will continue to work to reduce the gap between men and women and to protect women's rights as it has committed to do. the fact that mothers cannot work full-time during parental leave does not mean that they cannot be a benefit to the employer.
the unemployment of young people in slovakia has been alarming in recent years, not only because of the financial impact on society. young people without work do not acquire work experience and habits, they lose self-confidence, job prospects and many also lose the feeling that their studies were meaningful. the number of registered unemployed under 29 years of age accounts for more than one third of all registered unemployed, with young people with disabilities or from socially disadvantaged backgrounds being the most vulnerable group. therefore, it is necessary to build an inclusive model of education so that no group of children is excluded from a quality educational process, to promote more the development of students' key competences, initiative and creativity, as well as lifelong learning so that school leavers can be employers, not just employees. labour laws need to be simplified and the tax burden on labour reduced, and red tape in setting up and operating a business or firm reduced. initiatives in these areas would improve young people's chances of employment much more than spending millions of euros on temporary subsidised jobs, which do not solve the problem but only delay it.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. yes, mr lucke, it is the lack of competitiveness that is causing these high unemployment rates in the south. now many of my colleagues are trying to solve this lack of competitiveness by investing more and more, but, frankly, there is more and more debt to be paid. my question to you is, where do you think this is going to end? today the european union is approaching a debt ratio of about 100%. what's enough? what's the optimal? we heard there's good debt. is 150% enough for you? what do you think?
slovakia also has one of the highest youth unemployment rates, with up to a third of the unemployed in the country. this situation can be changed directly or indirectly. the eu should continue to support the erasmus and erasmus plus exchange programmes, which will lead to a more intelligent and efficient workforce, which in turn will attract employers. the free movement of labour and services can only work if people speak foreign languages at a communicative level, and they must therefore be guided to do so. the european union should also pay more attention to disrupting the rigid structures of family rule and corruption, which will allow young and competent people to get into relevant positions that are currently unattainable for them. but we also need to change the current paradigm in how we motivate young people, not just teach them 'study something, work in a company and you'll be driving all your life', but encourage them to be creative in small businesses. member state governments must create opportunities for small businesses to emerge. but once upon a time, the father taught the son, he gave the son an example. today, we have in the eu the breakdown of the healthy model of a functioning family of man, woman and children, and above all the authority of the father, which affects the young individual and destabilises him, and therefore he cannot find a relevant job. in school, it was the master and the teacher, so i think schools must lead from theoretical knowledge to professional practice, so that young people go to work in crafts, because craftsmen are lacking here.
youth unemployment is caused by a number of factors in our society. on the one hand, it is the reduction of jobs as a consequence of the effects of the financial, economic and, unfortunately, social crisis. it is the extension of retirement. today, the retirement age is already so high that many jobs are blocked. it's the structure of education in the individual member states, and it's also, of course, a consequence of the overall situation and how production is transferred outside the member states of the european union, because businesses and firms want to generate ever higher and higher profits at the expense of the jobs they should be providing to employees in our member states of the european union. the youth guarantee is one of the good tools, but it is a short-term tool, and i think that in order to create more jobs not only for the young generation but in general, it is important to change the overall social structure in the member states of the european union and to start looking at how to harmonize social policy within the european union.
in writing. the commission's new president will be the first to take the initiative in the area of employment, growth and investment. we are in a critical situation, the eu is fighting against massive youth unemployment. we all agree that we must pay attention to youth employment. i think one of the main recipes for success is rooted in promoting entrepreneurship. let's create opportunities for the young. the entrepreneurial environment creates more jobs where young people can apply themselves and where they can use their experience and ideas. let us remove the administrative obstacles that unnecessarily impede the development of this sector. the second important element is the emphasis on training and support for those fields of study which give young people a chance of finding employment. we must be prepared to link the academic world with the practical world! we should encourage as many programmes as possible where young people can gain their first work experience. i would also like to recall that one of the cornerstones of the eu's functioning is the free movement of persons. mobility in the labour market is indispensable for young people in particular. in this respect, the creation of eures is a necessity.
in writing. we have been tackling youth unemployment in europe for several years, but it does not seem to be very successful. the young people themselves showed their discontent in may this year by not taking part in the european elections. they have simply given up, they have lost hope that europe can solve their problem of finding a job and secure their future. we are quite successful in offering young people the opportunity to study in any member state, but we can no longer guarantee them employment. we now have member states where youth unemployment is 4%, but also countries where it is above 30%. therefore, measures and guarantees for young people must also take into account national requirements, guarantee that education is linked to the requirements of the labour market. this will only work if all stakeholders, public authorities, schools and employers, realise the need to work together. i support any good resolution that we pass in the ep, but the greater initiative must also come from the member states themselves.
in writing. - what ? the enlargement of the european monetary union to include more eu member states is a major step not only to strengthen the single currency, the euro, but also to respond to the efforts of opponents of the eu to undermine the single currency as a powerful stabilizer of the market, the economy and the eu's common policy. meeting the criteria for emu membership is not easy for the countries that joined the eu in 2004. i know this from the experience of my country, the slovak republic, which had to not only meet all the criteria but also establish an internal mechanism to prevent enormous price increases for consumers. i would therefore like to wish lithuania the best on this journey and perhaps offer some inspiration from slovakia.
if you ask the ceos of small and medium-sized businesses, hospitals, but also mayors and mayors, they will tell you that if debtors do not pay them on time, they can go bankrupt or go into receivership. that is why we adopted a directive last term that companies and institutions must pay their liabilities within 30 days. if we're going to require financial discipline from others, we need to set an example ourselves. today we are once again convinced that we lack the resources to repay our debts. we're threatened by structural deficits and deformities with consequences. how can the council be made to honour these commitments, but also how can budgetary problems be solved systematically? the final solution is to complete the system of own resources to which the european union has committed itself. i expect the next commission, led by mr juncker, to help us do that.
i would like to say something about the terrible situation that is exploding in iraq and that we are witnessing a gross violation of human rights. in northern iraq, a new caliphate has emerged, headed by a caliph who follows the law of sharia and is, in effect, a hateful killer of so-called infidels. it's shocking to me that and these are two facts that he first started killing his own, i would say, the brothers of mohammed, who are of different faiths: one is sunni, the other is shiite and they hate each other. but it is very alarming that this situation is also attacking the position of christians who have been living in the region and in iraq for over 1700 years and do not want to go anywhere. and it is our duty as the european union and this parliament to step in and effectively help the christians who live there. and it is scandalous that the council is here with us, but the commission has ignored this debate.
thank you very much, ulrike, and congratulations on the presidency of this parliament and on this debate. you, i and many of the speakers have been in this parliament for a long time. and we do come back to these discussions about the relationship between israel and palestine here on a regular basis, and the discussion is always about the opponents of israel and those who, even though they've never visited these territories, point to israel as the aggressor. i was in an interparliamentary delegation with israel for 10 years, i visited these territories several times, and if some in this chamber want to simplify this discussion to just criticize israel, they absolutely do not understand the whole situation. i am a staunch pacifist, i am against any military intervention. yet i am convinced that no such discussion has ever been caused solely by israel's attack on palestine. and i am very sorry that those who criticize israel here do not talk about how sorry they are for the women who are used in suicide attacks on israeli territory to murder israeli children.
in writing. - the discussion of the situation in ukraine was determined by the inexcusable and unprecedented absence of ms. ashton. my country has a schengen border with ukraine, and therefore i cannot accept any other activities that our high representative, mrs ashton, has been carrying out during this debate in the newly elected ep plenary. in ukraine, with which we have just signed an association agreement, there is a civil war, civilians are dying and all fundamental and human rights are being grossly violated. the whole situation in ukraine was underestimated by the eu's top officials from the start. it is not clear today how the potential economic and financial losses of eu member states providing reverse flow gas to ukraine will be compensated. therefore, i cannot support any resolution.
in writing. - i welcome and support the resolution on ukraine. i am very pleased that this parliament has been able to adopt a clear text and support the efforts of the ukrainian government to preserve the territorial integrity of the country. but at the same time i think that the slovak government's approach to the gas reverse flow agreement deserved not praise but a strong warning. the slovak government's actions increase the risk that we will have to deal with the crisis in the supply of heat to the population of ukraine in the winter months. here too we see that the high energy dependence of slovakia and other new eu member states on russian gas is not only an economic but also a political problem that we must tackle together.
i'm not an advocate of measures that are narrowly targeted at one segment of society. especially when we're talking about a problem like unemployment. i understand why we want to prioritise youth employment, but i would like to remind you that we should prioritise solutions that strengthen solidarity between generations. the support for family businesses fulfils this requirement. because working in a family business not only gives young people important skills and experience, but also teaches them responsibility and business ethics under the supervision of their parents. it's the lack of it that's brought us to this financial crisis. i would therefore like the commission to present an analysis of the business environment with regard to family businesses and to propose legislation to facilitate the setting up of family businesses and to take account of their specific problems.
in writing. - youth employment is one of the most critical policies in the eu. it is the result of many non-conceptual measures, such as the extension of the retirement age, the disappearance of jobs due to the effects of the economic and financial crisis, but also the absence of an education system in the member states. and the high rate of youth unemployment is one of the main reasons why the commission and the council should start thinking about harmonising social policies within the eu. i support the motion for a resolution because it deals at least in part with the situation of youth unemployment through the implementation of the youth guarantee. however, this is not the only solution and a deep structural reform of education will be needed.
in writing. - what ? the resolution on youth employment. the number of young people out of work in europe is alarming and rising. the most vulnerable group among them are young people with disabilities and from socially disadvantaged backgrounds. we therefore welcome the inclusion in the resolution of a point which calls on the member states to pay particular attention to young unemployed people from risk groups and to create tools and support services to better integrate disabled people into the labour market. but we also believe that rather than spending millions of euros on temporary subsidised jobs, which do not solve the problem but only delay it, we need to better target the education of young people and improve the business environment.
in writing. - what ? the debate in the ep plenary has rarely mentioned that the current situation in iraq is in some way caused by the member states that participated in the military invasion of iraq without a un mandate. we removed hussein to make way for the caliphate years later. it's also a testament to the misconception of the implementation of western democracy in middle eastern countries. but the truth is that there is a religious and ethnic cleansing in iraq and the eu is just watching and passing a resolution that does nothing. iraq has a nuclear program that could be a threat and we are completely powerless to deal with it at this point because we failed to act in a time when we could have acted responsibly.
in writing. - i supported the joint resolution, although i do not think that this parliament can influence anything about what is happening in iraq today. we are witnessing the collapse of a state whose elites have been too selfish for too long. at the same time, we are witnessing the demise of a thousand-year-old christian community that was forced to leave the land of its ancestors and today is a refugee fighting for survival. and we're seeing radical islamic fundamentalists, funded by stolen iraqi money, establish a state that is the embodiment of sectarian violence and hatred of everything that makes us human. if we really want to help someone in this situation, then instead of a political resolution, we should urgently look for a way to effectively protect the iraqi christians.
in writing. - it's not for nothing that they say that whoever solves the conflict in the middle east deserves all the world's prizes. the situation between israel and palestine is recurring. if we want to be objective, we have to recognize that israel is the only true democracy in this region, surrounded by a country with not exactly friendly policies towards the state of israel. nevertheless, israel has long sought a non-conflict and mutually acceptable solution, which has not been accepted by the palestinians. in any event, i condemn any violence against the population on both sides and call on the representatives of the democratic state of israel to try to develop efforts to settle the current conflict and maintain peace without military intervention.
in writing. - the european union, as well as the slovak republic, are staunch supporters and have long supported the existence of the international criminal court and the universality of the rome statute. the complementarity and extension of the jurisdiction and scope of the international criminal court to the crime of aggression is a significant legal step that will contribute to the functioning of the rule of law at the international level and to international peace and security by discouraging the unlawful use of force and thereby contributing to ending impunity for the perpetrators of such crimes. i also support the resolution because it is one of the mechanisms by which we can combat crimes against humanity, genocide, violations of human rights and so on. it is in these difficult times that it is important to actively contribute to the preservation and maintenance of peace at all costs and in all circumstances.
allow me to introduce myself in my first speech. i am józsef nagy and i come from slovakia, but i will speak in my native language, hungarian. looking at today's events, it's chilling for me to think about the future of peace in europe. ukraine, gaza, syria, iraq are not as far away as many of us think. our relationship with ukraine is defined by putin, because europe is tearing us apart. the citizens of my country and the hungarian people of slovakia were delighted to join the european union ten years ago because they saw freedom and a future assured here after forty years of communist and russian domination. and instead, today, european values and integration are being threatened by the political interests of the day. in fact, populist rhetoric is an obstacle to unity. i ask, for example, mr farage, who is making a strong case in this house against european union integration, what message does he have for the people of scotland who are voting in this week's referendum? do they get better with a break-in? i wonder why... (the president cut the speaker off)
the ukrainian crisis has left us unprepared for the political and security challenges. however, the annexation of crimea, russia's invasion of eastern ukraine and russian propaganda need clear and swift political responses. we need to redefine our policy towards russia and see it as it is, not as we would like to see it. we must be united, or there will be a crisis of values from which we will find it difficult to find a way out. it is dangerous to put the interests of one's own country above the values of a peaceful settlement in europe. it could leave deep scars on european politics. we talked about the situation in eastern ukraine, that we should not allow it to create another frozen conflict. unfortunately, it is becoming a reality. getting a ceasefire in ukraine is not going to be easy. but we should be careful about the price we pay for it.
in writing. when eu security is at stake, foreign policy takes precedence over trade policy. i think everyone would agree that if someone violates the constitution or international rules, we have to stand up for democracy. today we are taking steps to ensure that security for the eu. but we should know whether these steps lead to the goal and what we will do with them. if we've imposed sanctions on russia, we need to re-calculate all the implications and expect retaliation. if sanctions or retaliation means that eu countries lose markets, jobs and someone else takes over the space that is being freed, that is not a deliberate course of action. as regards the impact of retaliatory measures by russia, which has banned the import of certain foodstuffs, we must immediately: - prevent the destabilisation of the eu that the resulting surplus of foodstuffs may cause; - help to find new markets and outlets; - provide concrete compensation for the affected farmers, who now number over one million.
in writing. i consider the adoption of an association agreement with ukraine to be the best way to contribute to a peaceful settlement of the military conflict in ukraine. i see this act as a first step towards stabilising the situation and at the same time confirming the well-known principle that democratic states seek to resolve conflicts primarily through peaceful means, while totalitarian ones resort to violence and aggression. the association agreement will not only bring about the mutual opening of markets and the liberalisation of customs duties, but it is also a significant expression of solidarity of the whole of democratic europe with the struggling ukraine. while russian aggression in crimea and eastern ukraine has brought chaos, destruction, loss of life and economic decline, the association agreement will strengthen ukraine's economy, make its elites behave more responsibly and ensure greater freedoms for its people. anchoring ukraine in the european economic and political space will prevent the war that is going on there today from turning into a frozen conflict like we see in transnistria, abkhazia and south ossetia. i don't think ukraine is on the verge of disintegration, as some politicians and mps say. its citizens have been demonstrating for several months that they want a united, strong and, above all, democratic ukraine. it is our duty to do everything we can to help them achieve this goal. moreover, it is also in the clear interest of the european union and our citizens that we have stable and reliable neighbours.
in writing. today's ratification of the association agreement is a symbolic and historically important step in eu-ukraine relations. it's a step in the right direction. the eu has a longstanding clear policy towards ukraine based on respect for its free and sovereign decisions. the association agreement is the result of a long process of negotiations confirming this policy. this was confirmed today by both the european parliament and the verkhovna rada of ukraine. i believe that this agreement will bring economic benefits to ukraine and will be an incentive for further reforms. the arguments against ratifying this agreement are misleading and inaccurate and are often the result of russian propaganda. the european union is interested in ukraine as a partner, both in trade and in politics. today's ratification sends a signal that we are committed to this goal. the tense situation that exists in ukraine is not the result of this agreement, but of russia's aggressive policy towards its neighbors. i firmly believe that such a policy will not last.
in writing. - i abstained on the grounds that i consider the accelerated procedure for the association agreement with ukraine to be unjustified and not reflective of the current domestic political situation in the country.
in writing. - what ? i voted for the association agreement with ukraine for several reasons. ukraine is geographically divided into two parts by the dnieper river. historically, the left side of the river was called the "left bank" and the right side the "right bank". one part always gravitated more towards russia and the other towards europe. this was also evident in 2004 during the famous orange revolution. statistics show that 78% of the population of ukraine considers themselves ethnic ukrainians and up to 17% proudly identify as russians. in late 2004, the ukrainians experienced their orange revolution. ukrainians have experienced totalitarianism, corrupt politicians and oligarchs. i see the association agreement as a start, but a step in the right direction for ukraine. but the country still has a long way to go before it can hold a free referendum. i believe that ukrainians have the right to freely choose where they want to belong. i stress free. no pressure, no war. ukraine is not a pie to be sliced, it's our partner. i'm glad we sealed the signing of the association agreement today. its main contribution is, in addition to political partnership, the pursuit of freedom of expression, visa-free travel, an atmosphere of democracy and mutual free access to the market. i ask people to pray for this country, which is being tested by bloody conflict.
in writing, we approve the eu-ukraine association agreement at a time when ukraine is divided and torn apart by war. innocent mothers and children are suffering and dying, entire regions of southeastern ukraine are starving. i am convinced that the failure to sign the eu-ukraine association agreement last november has only contributed to this situation. the diplomacy of the eu's main representatives in the negotiations failed because political issues were at the forefront and the country's economic, ethnic and human rights problems were ignored. today, when the eu-ukraine association agreement was approved, i voted in favour, because as an mep from eastern slovakia, i believe that ukraine belongs to a common europe. ukraine faces new challenges, the path to the eu will not be short or easy, but i believe that the war conflict will stop and intensive negotiations will begin to maintain peace and save ukraine from economic collapse so that they can meet the terms of the association agreement.
in writing. - i abstained on the grounds that i consider the accelerated procedure for the association agreement with ukraine to be unjustified and not reflective of the current domestic political situation in the country.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. they said: 'now companies from abroad can come and choose the country where the legal system suits them best, and that is a disadvantage for european companies.' but they can choose any country they want to be in. i understand the common standards, but you don't have to go overboard. my question is: why is it a disadvantage for you if a company chooses a country? it is good for a company from the usa to choose the country that suits it best.
in writing i am very pleased that the ep has played a significant role in the recovery of the internal market. the digital single market opens up new opportunities to boost the economy through electronic commerce, while making it easier for businesses to comply with administrative and financial rules. the promotion of the digital single market was the right choice, as it is today one of the most dynamic growth sectors, generating annual profits of eur 260 billion. however, we cannot forget that even today there are still many obstacles blocking the free movement of online services and entertainment across national borders. regrettably, only 12% of european internet users feel completely safe when carrying out online transactions, as the various threats of fraud and other disruptions reduce consumers' confidence in the safe functioning of the online economy. if europe is to offer new services, it must provide its citizens with much faster internet access than is currently available. i am convinced that in the future much more money will have to be invested in ict research to be able to maintain and sustain competitiveness.
i have to say, madam president, climate goals are important, without question. it is also good that the un is getting involved and calling for a summit in new york. but this is not the european union's biggest problem at the moment. the biggest problem is unemployment, and that is because competitiveness is declining. climate objectives are in direct conflict with competitiveness. it's the question of what we need more of. the eu cannot afford to play a pioneering role for financial reasons. this is a pipe dream; the eu is up to its eyeballs in debt. the eu has 26 million unemployed, little growth and a pile of debt. in new york, there may be good food for 25 or 28 heads of government, but there are no jobs. it will only be possible if the eu continues to improve its competitiveness. but it does the opposite, and that's why the share of industry is falling. the eu should perhaps pause on climate targets and focus on the unemployed.
for the ppe group. the debate in plenary in strasbourg at this late hour should stimulate us to a good debate, but above all to tangible results. today we're dealing with a man, a patient who is in dire need of his medication. access to life-saving medicines is the topic of today's debate. the fate of millions of patients, whether in slovakia, finland, ireland, italy, anywhere, is close to my heart, not only because as a doctor i have seen people die, and i know from my former practice in life-saving medicine in the hospital ward how important it is to have quality medicine available, not just in the intensive care unit, but in all the wards of the hospital, and especially for a patient with a serious illness to have real, real access to medicine. to medicines that are and will be affordable, in his social situation and income level, and will be of quality and fully available. there is still inequality in access to the necessary medicines, partly due to the different levels of healthcare funding in different member states, which then translates into the price of medicines, into the different prices, and the constant increase in pharmaceutical expenditure, and partly because new technologies are financially demanding. on the other hand, pharmaceutical companies that develop new drugs should not abuse their exclusive position and then drive up the price of the drugs to unbearable levels. it's unethical and immoral. between 2000 and 2009, public expenditure on medicines in eu countries increased by an average of up to 76%. this expenditure on medicines is growing faster than the gdp of the member states. and at the same time, we have to take into account the ageing population in the member states, in other words more pensioners and the ever-distant price of newly developed medicines. in this context, it is necessary to systematically allow the same molecule in the generics sector to be made available to patients as soon as possible and at a disproportionately lower cost.
granted, developing new life-saving drugs is very costly. however, it is not justifiable for a patient to be denied the care he needs for financial reasons. every patient in europe has the right to quality treatment and access to medicines. the principle of equitable distribution of resources must be applied without compromise. it is unacceptable that such medicines should be available only to the privileged and that the socially weaker should be excluded from such treatment. then there are situations where the door opens to corruption and clientelism, which is what we want to fight against in europe. if we're talking about life-saving drugs, we should also be talking about situations where the possibilities of actively and fundamentally influencing the prognosis of the disease are exhausted. this is where palliative care should come in. in contrast to conventional treatments, it offers a higher quality of life even in cases of advanced and terminal illness. this is care that ensures quality and comprehensive care for the seriously ill or those at the end of life, with full respect for human dignity and rights. i suppose most politicians are familiar with the saying, "civilization is only as advanced as it is concerned with its weakest and most helpless members". i think it is the responsibility of politicians to live up to that statement in our work. it is shocking that our advanced civilization, instead of making it easier for the elderly and the terminally ill to receive special care, is increasingly striving to eliminate them. in the past, they were confined to institutions; now they are being offered a low-cost solution, namely, euthanasia. it's a paradox. europe's development and prosperity allow us to have a real quality and dignified life for everyone, but we still debate and justify how to get rid of unprofitable people. the latest horrifying example is belgium, where they extended euthanasia to children and the mentally ill. i can't help but think of ancient sparta, where they killed unsuitable children, or nazi eugenics, where they eliminated the unsuitable. where does such a view lead? society will start to throw out people with disabilities or those who don't meet our standards. i have to say that in slovakia, the state does not provide adequate palliative care. (speaker was interrupted)
in july this year, the parliament pointed out that the youth employment initiative should not be the only remedy for youth employment problems, but that it was an additional aid which should not replace the role of the member states and their own responsibility in addressing youth problems. and now for the very guarantee of youth. the success of youth programmes and initiatives depends in particular on the ability of member states to deliver on these commitments in terms of actual content, and this depends on the implementation capacity of states. unfortunately, the countries that need the most help often have the lowest and make only limited improvements. employment services tasked with helping young people are often unable to provide personalised and quality services. they tend to help where it is easiest, renounce aid to the long-term unemployed and benefit from measures to those who have the least difficulty finding employment. for example, preference is given to funding young people's places, but the long-term sustainability of the jobs thus created is often secondary. if we are to help young people find work, the member states, and particularly those most affected by youth unemployment and inactivity, must first of all know what they are doing and evaluate the quality of the services they provide to young people. the commission must ensure that member states take the easy way out, but also that they are able to make use of the possibilities offered by the single market. (speaker was interrupted)
in writing, i voted against. the eu will give spain €1.66 million, 475 dutch people €1.6 million, 508 greeks more than €6 million and 1,000 romanians less than €3.6 million. but these contributions are arbitrary, collected from other people's taxes, and do not address the cause of the problem, only the mild consequences. the root of the problem is the lack of competitiveness of european economies, which continues to be undermined by excessive climate targets and unnecessarily high social protection and other standards. as long as the eu sets itself conflicting goals, for example climate goals versus increasing industrial production, jobs will disappear.
ebola is something that we can boldly compare to an epidemic, a plague in the middle ages. it's something that can destroy the functioning of any country. we know that liberia, but also sierra leone, are on the verge of collapse as countries. multiple agencies brought it in. unfortunately, the number of people infected is growing exponentially, and you know that we doctors don't have an effective antidote or vaccine yet. work is underway, but the eu certainly needs to make a much greater and more concentrated effort to promote a faster delivery of sanitation solutions, not just preventive and epidemiological measures. we must show more solidarity and we must show that this is a human rights issue and that it is the eu's duty to help our neighbours in africa.
what we're seeing in iraq and syria is a genocide of christian communities. terrorists calling themselves the 'islamic state' are depriving christians of their basic rights, driving them from their homes, killing, torturing, kidnapping, raping women, and enslaving them. christians become refugees for their faith and religious beliefs. the right to freedom of speech and religion is part of the universal declaration of human rights. the promotion of respect for human rights is a fundamental principle of the european union. but even deeper in the foundations of european unity are the christian values that have shaped the morals, social relations, and public institutions of all european nations for two millennia. solidarity with members of the christian communities in iraq is not a goodwill gesture, it is our duty. yes, i believe we have an obligation to protect the christians in iraq and syria, they have only us. if we don't stand up for them, no one else will. it is not enough to help them survive the winter, our goal must be to allow the iraqi and syrian christians to return home. if they need defense, the protection of peace congregations, we must provide it. i welcome the creation of an international coalition that can take action against them. but let us also think about the need for reconciliation, because without it there is no way to bring stability to this region. only reconciliation can heal relations between muslims and christians. and the path to reconciliation leads through inspiring personal examples. that is why i ask you, dear colleagues, to sign your name in support of the nomination of patriarch saak and professor al-assali for the sakharov prize. their stories contain a message of reconciliation and mutual respect that appeals to both iraqi christians and muslims.
the palestinian conflict in gaza has already cost many lives and i want to condemn this unequivocally. but we must clearly name the cause of the outbreak of tension and condemn the attacks on the state of israel. hamas is not warning the residents of the attacks, but instead is urging them to stay home and even putting them in the front lines. hamas hides rockets in schools and hospitals, forcing israel to attack these civilian facilities where women and children are present. a renowned czech psychiatrist characterized it as israel protecting its people with missiles and hamas protecting its missiles with people. the response from israel must be proportionate, but we have to see the bigger picture, although i think israel has gone too far in this war. the european security strategy 2030 clearly states that resolving the arab-israeli conflict is a strategic priority for europe. without it, there is little chance of solving the other problems in the middle east. resolving this conflict is a key prerequisite for us to be able to confront the threat of terrorism. i therefore call on the eu to develop a peace effort to try to stop the violence in gaza. but i realize that the civilian casualties also significantly damage israel's image in the world. at the same time, i am alarmed by the rise of anti-semitism in europe. hatred of israel is openly transformed into hatred of jews. angela merkel said that there was no jewish institution left in germany that had not recently asked for police protection. we all have a duty to stand up against anti-semitism and not allow it to spread. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer to the question asked by raising the blue card madam, do you think that 5 minutes is enough to escape from a missile that comes out of nowhere? i said that hamas doesn't even warn its own people about the attacks, and instead hides them in schools and hospitals, where they also place missiles. that's what i said. and i think israel is warning the civilian population. so hamas is creating conflict.
as has been mentioned here, the eu is present in dozens and dozens of different activities with regard to israel, palestine and the settlement of the situation in the middle east, but many of us have already stated this here. it's not enough. the eu is still doing too little. the eu is not a sufficient or strong player in shaping the whole of the middle east. i think the eu as a whole, and not its individual states, must fully use all the levers at its disposal to address this situation. we have to say that we shout, we shout, we pass resolutions, but in reality we have not been able to limit terrorist activities, whether hamas or hezbollah, and we have not been able to stop the israeli government from building illegal settlements. we're really failing, let's face it. it is a huge challenge, especially for the office of the high commissioner of the european union, and perhaps for the new staff coming in, to draw up a real european action plan for peace in the middle east. i emphasize european, not national.
the european union is preparing a document on freedom of religion. i want to ask how the work on these texts has progressed and how freedom of religion is defined there. according to 2011 data, up to 76% of europeans profess christianity, but the word christian is not even mentioned. in general, it speaks of freedom of religion, but the rights of religious groups, such as muslims, are mentioned far more often. nor does the report of the european union agency for human rights entitled "fundamental rights: challenges and achievements for 2011" even mention the word christian. i would ask the commission to take the right to freedom of religion seriously in preparing these documents and to take into account the fact that many citizens profess christianity. i would also like to call on the european commission to take citizens' opinions more seriously. i am disappointed by the commission's attitude to the most successful european initiative, called one of us, which also concerned human rights, namely the unborn. the fact that almost 800,000 citizens have expressed an opinion that the commission has literally swept off the table, unfortunately, damages the image of the european institutions... (speaker is interrupted)
today's debate also shows that the situation in ukraine and the advance of the islamic state in the middle east are the two most important crises. closely linked to this are our efforts to defend the values on which the eu is built: the democratic political establishment and respect for civil liberties. last year we called for human rights and democracy to play a more important role in the union's external relations. we have called for a more systematic and effective promotion of human rights and democracy in the world. as rapporteur for last year's eu human rights report, i repeat what i said then. the protests in ukraine and the arab spring have reminded us that people do not accept the curtailment of human rights and want to decide the direction of their countries. and it's our duty to help them do that.
for the ecr group. i am pleased that in this resolution, at my instigation, parliament also decided to condemn the july attack on nuns in boldipukur, when nuns, who are otherwise highly respected in bangladesh, were brutally attacked. i would like to add that this was not just a religiously motivated attack. the diocese there helps to legally protect the property of the poor. for a long time, various groups have been trying to take over their fertile soil illegally, and attacks on missionaries are acts of intimidation. following the july attack and subsequent protests by the bangladeshi bishops, the government ordered a temporary police presence around the monastery. hopefully, this will not only deter the perpetrators from similar attacks but also end the persecution of indigenous minorities in the region.
i welcome the european parliament's clear position on the occurrence of a serious infectious disease. the crisis surrounding the ebola outbreak is complex. it has political, economic and social implications and consequences that will persist even after the primary health threat has passed. the outbreak of this disease is no longer a west african problem, but it is a global problem. there are two ways to do this. on the one hand, to promote the accelerated development of effective medicines and therapies, but on the other hand, to pay constant attention to the provision of quarantine and clinical care. it is shown that this quarantine only works if the population has confidence in the health workers and the government, which is not the case in liberia, and therefore the eu should use all diplomatic options to stabilise the political situation in liberia as well.
in writing. - what ? i am very pleased that the european union has taken a position on the outbreak of this deadly virus. the large outbreaks in west african countries such as guinea, sierra leone, liberia and nigeria confirm the need to develop new medicines, possibly by increasing the production of generics. in particular, they must be affordable so that they can be effectively deployed in developing countries where the virus has occurred. the west african countries have a history of destabilisation and therefore there is a need to link humanitarian efforts to negotiations with a view to de-escalating the situation in the region, in particular in liberia.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a joint resolution on the eu response to the ebola outbreak, because every day the media is reporting on the alarming spread of this deadly disease and people are dying every day from the consequences of this disease. even the world health organization acknowledged that the epidemic was underestimated in its early days, and it estimates the number of possible patients at up to 20,000. although the deadly ebola virus has struck african countries, we must establish robust control mechanisms before it spreads to other continents, and at the same time help the affected african countries with a robust information campaign, as well as humanitarian and medical assistance. the €147 million allocated by the european commission's development aids to humanitarian aid and civil protection to prevent the spread of the virus, to provide the most necessary equipment for infected people and to deploy humanitarian experts will certainly help.
the original draft text of the resolution on the situation in syria and iraq made almost no mention of christians, although they are the ones who have been the target of violence and persecution by the terrorists of the so-called islamic state. finally, two paragraphs on the christian minority in the region were incorporated into the joint text. i congratulate the negotiators on their efforts and their courtesy. i am glad that this parliament has finally been able to express solidarity with the members of christian communities who are persecuted and threatened with extinction in their home countries. today, the christian population of iraq is persecuted for their religion and beliefs. they were deprived of basic rights and forced to become refugees. i'm glad we were able to bring their suffering to the attention of the world. this resolution could be the first step on the road to the return of iraqi christians to their homes.
in writing. - what ? in yesterday's debate on this motion for a resolution, i and other colleagues wore t-shirts bearing the symbol n in arabic, the symbol used by the islamic state's military units to identify those who belong to the nazarene, the christians. islamic fundamentalists mark their homes with it, giving them a choice: leave their homes within 24 hours or convert to a radical form of islam, or pay a tax for the "right to be a christian". to refuse is to risk "death by the sword". many eventually became the victims of senseless and brutal murder, including the elderly, women, and children. our small gesture expressed our solidarity not only with all persecuted christians but also with all other religious and national minorities in these troubled countries. we must take into account the brutal violence and murder of hundreds of yazidis, shiite soldiers and members of other minorities. i am pleased that in its resolution today, which i have unequivocally supported, the eu has made a very clear statement on the rights of all those persecuted, highlighting the need to protect civilians, the need for immediate and effective assistance to refugees, and at the same time calling for the search for pathways to mutual dialogue. it also stressed the obligation to hold accountable and to bring to justice all persons suspected of committing these heinous crimes against humanity, so that the perpetrators do not go unpunished.
in writing. - i supported a resolution criticizing the persecution of minorities in iraq and syria. these are countries where christians have long been persecuted, but this year the situation has worsened dramatically. as a newly elected mep, i appreciate all the activities of the european parliament, which adopts resolutions to protect religious minorities, provides material aid and invites representatives of all religions to strasbourg or brussels. agility should be a signal not only to the governments of the incriminated states but also to european diplomacy, which has not acted decisively enough so far. i believe the new commission will be more effective in dealing with religious freedom. we should realize, however, that the recent expulsion of chaldean catholics from their native mosul, where they have lived for nearly 2,000 years, is not just a sign of religious unfreedom in the region. these refugees have been deprived of basic human rights, universal rights of all human beings. i am therefore surprised by the attitude of some member states, which refuse to take an official position on the situation. unambiguous condemnation of genocide, financial assistance to refugee camps, or the granting of asylum is the least we can do at this point.
in writing. - situácia v líbyi je momentálne zložitá. rôzne skupiny bojujú medzi sebou, pričom ničia životy civilistov. podporil som uznesenie, pretože vyzýva eú, aby aj naďalej ponúkala humanitárnu, finančnú a politickú pomoc v krízových oblastiach, v severnej afrike a na blízkom východ, no s cieľom riešiť základné príčiny migrácie a humanitárnych problémov. the situation in libya is at this moment very difficult. different groups are fighting to each other which destroy the life of civilians. i supported the resolution as it calls for the eu to continue to offer humanitarian, financial and political assistance in crisis areas in north africa and the middle east in order to tackle the root causes of migration and humanitarian pressures.
in writing. - hlasoval som za vyhlásenie, pretože toto vyhlásenie víta dialóg medzi vládou izraela a palestínskou vládou národného porozumenia a vyzýva obe krajiny, aby v ňom pokračovali. verím, že mier môže nastať iba po skutočnom zblížení. mali by sme mať na pamäti, že žiaden zákon nezmierni nenávisť. rovnako, vyhlásenie hovorí o tom, že bez rekonštrukcie a ekonomickej obnovy nemôže v pásme gazy nastať dlhodobá stabilita pričom tomuto bráni nedostatok pohybu ľudí. vyhlásenie tiež vyzýva k rekonštrukcii a rehabilitácii gazy. the reasons why i voted in favour for this resolution are: first of all because the statement welcomes the on-going dialogue between the israeli government and the palestinian national consensus government and urges both parties to continue with that. i believe that peace can only be there when real reconciliation happens. we should keep in mind that hatred cannot be diminished by law. furthermore, the statement says that there will be no long-term stability in gaza without reconstruction and economic revival, which is undermined by the lack of free movement of people and goods; and calls for a rapid reconstruction and rehabilitation of gaza.
, in writing the world health organization warned last week that in the next two months, there could be up to 10,000 new cases of ebola each week in west africa. so the biggest fight against ebola is still ahead of us. we need to provide adequate assistance to west africa and also start crisis management within europe. europe will very likely soon also be the territory where ebola will spread. the question is whether we are prepared for this situation, whether we can identify cases of infection in its early stages, ensure adequate quarantine and prevent further spread. the question is also whether our health systems are prepared for this situation. the cases from the united states show that underestimating the situation can be critical to human lives. international coordination is needed to prevent ebola from becoming a pandemic. we should establish crisis management within the union and prepare for further spread scenarios of this epidemic.
i have to ask you, mr. andor. the european union and you personally still have a complete misunderstanding of the causes of this crisis. in its efforts to help jobs and growth, the european union is blindly using only two instruments. more regulation and more redistribution. if it doesn't work, it does more of the same, more regulation and more redistribution. the opposite is needed to create jobs. the current eu strategy is much worse than the eu doing nothing, because it only exacerbates the very problems it is trying to solve. four things are needed to really solve the problems: firstly, to strengthen the internal market as the basic pillar of the european union; secondly, to put an end to the rescue of irresponsible countries, which is contrary to the lisbon treaty; thirdly, to depoliticise the european central bank; and fourthly, to respect the principles of subsidiarity. if you don't follow these points, you can meet as much as you want, but you're not going to solve youth unemployment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is of course very sad that there are so many unemployed in greece, but i am afraid that no social fund will help them. greece has the common currency, the euro, and it's just too expensive for greece. everything greece produces is too expensive. that's why it produces little. industrial production is at the level of 1970. that's why they have the unemployed. the euro is hurting greece the most. (applause from the centre)
in writing it is very important that young people find employment after leaving school and are able to make full use of their education, because if they do not succeed and develop a work habit at a young age, they can easily fall into frustration and lose confidence in their own abilities, which will ultimately increase tensions in society and put additional strain on the social systems of the member states. i think it is time to acknowledge that the european employment model has serious problems and shortcomings, as evidenced by the 7.6 million jobs lost between 2007 and 2013. we need to show young people that they have a chance to work and give them hope for a better future. it must be admitted that the reforms carried out in the individual member states have managed to stabilise the labour market situation in part, but i do not share mr barros' boundless optimism, because the situation is still serious and we must approach it as such. however, i can agree that growth in europe is very fragile and uneven and that member states that have been responsible and have implemented structural reforms are in a much better position and more advantageous situation today. a good example is italy, where a major reform has been implemented to help young italians under 25 get into work.
question asked by raising the blue card addressed to tibor szanyim i was going to ask the previous speaker a question. my question is, you mentioned that the 300 billion euros from the juncker commission should therefore be included in this report somehow, and my question is who will pay the 300 billion euros?
if we are talking about this important topic, which the economic semester is undoubtedly, then we must link the theme of the economic semester much more strongly with social policy in the future. we have many problems that are emerging in our countries and that are very closely linked, whether with our social systems, with the high unemployment rate and the inability to use the instruments to increase employment, or with phenomena that we have not yet been able to eliminate, such as wage policy. employees in the same companies earn much better in the more economically developed countries than in our country, slovakia, and these are often large companies which, i must say, still use the cheaper labour in our countries despite the fact that we have been a member state of the european union for 10 years. i would therefore like to ask that in future we also take much more account of these social aspects, which are important for the people and which often serve as a basis for the people of our countries to assess the nature of the development of the european union.
in writing. the main objective of the european semester is to maintain the eu's economic recovery process and achieve a balanced budget. it is therefore essential that the coordination of the eu's economic policies be subject to democratic control by the european parliament. moreover, greater involvement of national parliaments in improving democratic control would also be welcome. it is also crucial for the eu economy to maintain and promote a balanced and sustainable strategy for growth and jobs. i would like to stress the importance of the correct implementation of the recommendations by the member states, as well as the need for greater transparency in the decision-making process. if we look at the implementation of the 2013 recommendations, we find that only 10-15% of the recommendations in 2013 were fully implemented. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the need to ensure greater discipline in the implementation of the recommendations in order to mobilise sufficient political capital for reforms in the member states. it is in particular the member states that should be committed to increasing competitiveness, generating growth and modernising the social security system and the labour market.
in writing - i voted against the proposal because it solves the problems of low competitiveness by redistributing, which further reduces competitiveness. in addition, eur 1 019 184 for 300 spaniards means that taxpayers will pay approximately eur 34 000 for each of these beneficiaries.
in writing - i did not support the proposal as it reinforces the very problems it seeks to address. the subsidies for workers made redundant as a result of the loss of competitiveness of firms are paid from the taxes of other firms and workers and therefore logically reduce their competitiveness. the only real help for firms losing competitiveness is to reduce taxes and regulatory burdens, which will enable them to compete much more effectively with firms outside the european union.
in writing - i voted against this proposal because it is harmful to the european union's economy and competitiveness. i have no doubt that eur 911 934 939 can help the workers who have been made redundant. but all taxpayers in the european union will have to pay for this aid, which will reduce their competitiveness accordingly. and that is the exact opposite of what the european union is trying to achieve with this contribution.
in writing - i did not support this proposal because i think it is not right to fight declining competitiveness by allocating subsidies. the proposal concerns eur 12 704 605 for 2357 redundant workers of peugeot citroën automobiles, which is a company with a turnover of eur 1 billion. this amounts to almost eur 5400 for each worker concerned. but this money will ultimately be paid out only by taxes on other workers and firms, which will be able to employ fewer workers as a result of this support. in combating the negative effects of unemployment, the european union itself is contributing to the increase in unemployment, and this is certainly not acceptable.
in writing. – during mr barroso’s term of office yet more power has been transferred from nation states to the eu. i would like to highlight one particular area which is both topical and highly dangerous and concerns europol, the eu’s emergent police force. in a recent bbc radio interview mr troels oerting, the head of europol’s cybercrime centre, revealed that: ‘most of the world’s cybercrime originates from russia’; that he is ‘increasingly happy’ with europol’s ‘cooperation’ with russia's ‘law-enforcement authorities’ and that he had recently visited moscow and agreed to share information with them on a number of ‘interesting cases’. this is an extraordinary statement given that in russia it is impossible to distinguish between organised crime and the so-called law enforcement agencies. meanwhile, a respected internet security company, isight, has uncovered a massive russian cyber espionage campaign against western governments and nato. this is at a time when the british parliament is on the verge of voting to permanently transfer yet more power to the eu on policing and criminal justice matters. it is utter madness to share sensitive information with russia, which is a gangster state, and seriously puts at risk our security and the protection of our citizens.
, in writing. i consider the second european commission under josé manuel barroso to be a major failure. the commission's failings have been evident since its inception. the treaty of lisbon was adopted just over a week after the second barroso commission formally began its work on 1 december 2009. but already at the beginning of may 2010, only six months later, aid to greece was approved, in direct contradiction to the newly approved treaty of lisbon. shortly afterwards, the breach of the lisbon treaty became systemic, as the temporary euro (efsf) was created first, and the permanent euro (esm) later. the systematic breach of the rules by the european union under barroso was not the only negative of this european commission. of the 27 commissioners at the start of her term, at least 10 had a communist background or are still committed to communist ideas. similarly, the response of the second barros commission to the crisis was very unhappy. the european union continued to push for more of the same, which caused the current crisis redistributing taxpayers' money and issuing a host of harmful regulations. as a result, barroso is now leaving the eu budget in a state where up to four-fifths of it is used for payments to farmers and the cohesion funds, with no prospect of fundamental change.
the european union has a strategy, but it does not allocate enough budgetary resources to implement it. it's all about 26 billion euros in unpaid invoices. we are endangering the confidence of the whole of europe. we see that the budget in the future cannot depend on whether or not the council meets its commitments. we therefore need to create a smart european budget that will provide the european union with the resources to achieve its ambitions without increasing the overall tax burden on citizens. let us take from the national level all that we can do more effectively at the european level. there are savings and resources in more intensive european integration. to be credible to citizens, the budget of the european union must set an example in terms of governance, efficiency, transparency and control.
in every decision taken in the european parliament, we should keep in mind our objectives, and those objectives are, first and foremost, growth and improving the employment of our citizens. the budget structure always has a strong influence on such objectives. that's why i'll always push for less spending on consumption, less spending on administration, but more spending on supporting small businesses, science, research, innovative technologies. i will always support such proposals. even if we are trying to balance the budget here, our debts are still growing and even a year should reach the level of 30 billion euros, so we need to improve the payment discipline and above all to follow the rules. on the one hand, we're talking about 30-60 days, but on the other hand, we're running up debts. i therefore think that we need to introduce penalties for non-payment also at the level of the european institutions, in order to improve payment discipline and to comply with the rules, only then can the european budget really work. we often talk about the expenditure side, but i consider the revenue side of the budget to be even more important, and it can only work if the environment for job creation is functioning. so we should talk more about improving competitiveness, lower taxes, fees, better labour laws and supporting education, science, research. i hope we'll talk more about this and i hope we'll do well in this.
mr juncker, we have all listened to your speech very carefully and i am sure that the majority of this house will support you today, including myself, not only because you have chosen mr sefcovic, a very experienced commissioner who also represents my country, as one of your closest colleagues and vice-president, but also because you have presented a rather interesting programme. i would just like to ask you to really give a lot of space in your programme to social policy and to the fact that even today, 10 years after my country became a member state of the european union, the average wage in slovakia is still lower than the minimum wage in luxembourg, in your country. so i hope that all of these measures that you're going to do will be for the benefit of the citizens in particular, because we've helped financial institutions and large corporations enough in those previous periods. thank you very much, and i'm keeping my fingers crossed for your commission.
, in writing. - mr president, i have to go. at the beginning of a new term, i would like to congratulate the newly elected members of the college of commissioners and president juncker. to reach this moment, we have held marathon hearings in our committees, scrutinizing the candidates' professional and political qualifications. i welcome the fact that today's vote brings an end to eight months of uncertainty in the eu. but the commission was preceded by a number of anomalies and oddities that will have to be dealt with in the future. the most logical thing would be for the commission, after having selected and voted for its president, to start consulting the member states, to propose portfolios to them and then to ask the member states' governments for proposals. the current system is the other way around, with member states nominating commissioners without having any idea at the time of nomination of the areas of expertise for which they will be responsible. the shortcomings of the current process have given way to politically charged and unfounded attacks, which ultimately mean a loss of prestige not only for the country concerned but also for the union. despite the fact that the juncker commission is not an ideal composition - for example, there is no commissioner specifically concerned with the protection of the rights of historical national minorities - i do see a chance for the new commission to give the union new energy. we hope that you will be a worthy guardian of the treaties and that your measures and proposals will help to revitalise citizens' faith in the union.
mr juncker, i agree that the mid-term review of the mff, scheduled for the end of 2016, should be an opportunity to further direct the eu budget towards jobs, growth and competitiveness. i believe that your steps will be directed towards areas that can generate additional growth of hundreds of millions of dollars. the digital agenda alone has the potential to create a dynamic knowledge society and hundreds of thousands of new jobs, especially for young people. the same potential exists for the completion of the single market, whether transat is a the eu's long-term interest rate is currently at around 0.5% of gdp. i agree that the economies in which the and if economies do not grow, they will not grow. but if you invest in the economy, but then there's no one to pay for that investment, that's the worst-case scenario that e we cannot allow the council's approach to deferral of payments to be extended beyond the deadline. this is also your first homework assignment that you've ever had. we have to figure this out.
in writing. - i want to congratulate mr. sefcovic on the important post of vice president of the ec. but the composition of the ec is more a result of policy and engagement with individual portfolios than a result of finding the right expertise. candidates do not have a direct mandate from the citizens, and their selection is increasingly moving away from democratic practices. that's why i'm staying.
in writing - i supported the commission because i am convinced that the composition of the commission gives guarantees to solve the problems we have in the eu. during the hearings, individual commissioners made it clear that, although their appointments were political, they were nevertheless able to guarantee the professional functioning of their commissions and that they knew the challenges ahead of us in order to reduce unemployment and poverty, kick-start economic growth, ensure energy security and self-sufficiency, protect the uniqueness of europe's natural resources, fauna and flora, but also to eliminate war conflicts in europe and the world. i also think that the division of powers between the various vice-presidents is very positive, because they will have to coordinate more closely the activities of the various committees and there will be more cooperation between commissioners than there has been so far, which will certainly have a positive impact on the regulations submitted to the ep. i also welcome the commitment of the president of the commission and the individual commissioners to come more often in the future to meet with members of the european parliament, both in committee and in informal meetings, to discuss with them the problems which affect people throughout the eu. i also supported the commission because i have the assurance that the vice-president of the commission for slovakia, mr maroš ševčovič, will contribute to good decisions by the commission with his knowledge, experience, expertise and diplomacy.
in writing. - it must be admitted that jean-claude juncker surprised the commissioners with his proposals. his proposals for commissioners show that he set up the european commission himself and not at the behest of the heads of government of the powerful states. the really unpleasant news is pierre moscovici, a french socialist, is to become commissioner for the economy, monetary affairs and finance. this french finance minister has failed to reduce france's deficit, tried to introduce a 70% income tax in his office and has flagrantly violated eu budgetary rules. that's what you call turning a cap into a gardener. this nomination is all the more dangerous because the ecb is headed by italian mario draghi and the eurogroup is to be headed by spain. all these countries are pushing for a loosening of the eu budget rules, which is a road to hell. the last thing the eu needs today is more socialism and budgetary irresponsibility. without moscovici, i might have voted yes, so i abstained.
in writing - i appreciate mr juncker's efforts so far in setting up the new european commission and his efforts to redistribute the portfolios among the individual commissioners as efficiently as possible. i am confident that the hearings held in the european parliament have also provided a thorough assessment of the candidates' competence and that the approval of the entire college in the ep plenary is a testament to their qualities and the beginning of a successful new phase of cooperation between the ec and the ep.
in writing - i supported the proposal as such because without it it would be very difficult to deal with the areas it covers. but i regret that the amendments which i supported and whose main objective was to reduce the expenditure of members, whether it be their salaries, travel allowances or distance allowances, have not been passed. in the difficult economic and social situation in which the eu is currently found, this would be a good signal to citizens that we are ready to make savings on ourselves.
in writing. - it's a budget adjustment from last term. the budget is developing more positively than originally anticipated. this is a reduction of eur 9.5 billion in the eu's own resources requirements. this is also good news for slovakia and for the other eu member states, which should pay less to the eu budget (eur 53 million for slovakia). i vote yes.
in writing. - i cannot support the draft budget of the european union from the workshop of the european commission. i have two strong arguments for that. in my view, it is not generous to taxpayers, it does not support the consolidation of the public finances of the member states of the european union. and in the chapter "european instrument for democracy and human rights", it explicitly supports lgbti advocacy organisations. however, for 2015, more than eur 255 million is available in the budget chapter of the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr). i can't support a budget that's prepared this way.
written - the budget for other sections refers to the administrative budgets of the european institutions, including the european parliament, but excluding the european commission. the european parliament's budget for 2015 was set at eur 1 794 929 112, representing an increase of 2,24% compared to the 2014 budget. the budget of the court of justice of the european union should also be increased in view of the significant increase in the number of cases and the creation of an additional 12 posts to ensure the timely and unnecessary delay in delivering judgments. implementation of the cooperation agreement between the european parliament and the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, whereby 80 staff members from the advisory committees will be gradually transferred to the european parliament. the budget of the european external action service will also need to be increased in connection with the opening of a new representation in the persian gulf, where the european union is under-represented.
in writing. - in my opinion, the eu budget for 2015 will do without the additional 4 billion that the committee on budgets wants to increase it by. it's time to put every euro to good use. if countries want to achieve balanced management, we must support them. i support the er's position that the budget should be more tax-friendly. i vote against.
in writing - i did not support the draft budget of the european union because it is primarily about redistributing money that it takes from those who create value. a large part of the budget is consumed by the common agricultural policy, which should have ceased to exist long ago. similarly, much of it goes to the european funds, which are being stolen and distorting the business environment. the european union needs a fundamental budgetary change: more savings on its administration, less regulation, the abolition of agricultural subsidies and so on.
in writing. - what ? at first sight, it seems logical that member states, in an effort to save budgets and reduce deficits, are proposing substantial cuts in the draft budget for 2015. however, on closer inspection, many of these proposals concern mainly key areas such as innovation, research, infrastructure, support for smes and energy. in particular, energy security cannot be achieved without increased investment in energy infrastructure, energy efficiency, interconnections and renewable energy generation. the appropriations approved by the council in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 are already missing from the 2015 budget. i therefore support parliament's position calling for a return to the commission's proposal to avoid delays in payments for research, universities and business development. i also consider it populist for heads of state and government to speak at every summit about the importance of growth and job creation, while at the same time the same politicians propose cuts in the eu budget in these areas.
in writing, the european union and its member states have concluded on 6 march 2014 an additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. the republic of croatia acceded to the european union on 1 july 2013 and became its 28th member state. following the accession of croatia to the european union, it was necessary to take account of this accession in the existing agreement. the council decision therefore aims to ensure, in accordance with the act of accession of croatia to the european union, that croatia participates fully in the agreement in question.
in my view, the role of the european parliament's resolutions is to draw attention to breaches of commitments, to seek to correct undesirable situations, to reward and encourage successful achievement of objectives and commitments. the institutions of the european union have clearly defined powers and instruments to achieve their objectives. it is therefore unnecessary to resort to expressive language that is not really valid. this is what is happening in the resolution on the european semester. as an institution, we regret that europe is in danger of falling behind. we can express grief when someone dies, when some natural disaster occurs, when things happen that we cannot control, but not where we are expected to offer suggestions and concrete solutions. i therefore call on parliament, and therefore on all of you, to avoid such language in future and to focus our attention on proposing real solutions that will move europe forward.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis has made it clear to us that we are vulnerable. the degree of economic inequality between states is increasing. this is why there is an urgent need to develop an integrated economic policy that will boost the economies of the member states of the european union. one such instrument is the large and integrated market, with key sectors being financial services, transport, energy and digital. the european semester plays a fundamental role in coordinating the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. it is essential to growth to maintain jobs and create new ones. although unemployment rates have fallen and employment is improving in europe, youth unemployment is still critically high. further action is needed to eliminate discrimination against young workers. furthermore, the european union must assure its citizens that it is committed to equal treatment in all areas. i also supported the motion because it calls the attention of the european union agency for fundamental rights to the impact of the measures on fundamental rights. we must promote overall, harmonious development leading to a strengthening of economic, social and territorial cohesion. therefore, particular attention should be paid to rural areas, areas affected by industrial change and regions with natural or demographic handicaps. many crossborder regions also need further development to rise to the eu level.
in writing - this report marks the entry into the second phase of the implementation and implementation of the priorities for the 2014 european semester for economic policy coordination. the original report was completely unacceptable. despite the fact that many positive changes have been achieved and incorporated, the report still refers to the macroeconomic conditionality introduced by the european structural funds. significant achievements include the call for the swift implementation of a new 300 billion investment plan, the provision of a degree of flexibility to member states with regard to the rules of the stability and growth pact, and the need to increase public investment.
we see how most eu member states are failing to address the financial crisis, the sovereign debt crisis and the competitiveness crisis. it is therefore necessary to continue with thorough, balanced and socially sustainable structural reforms. without them, the economic growth on which employment depends cannot be launched. key in this regard are in particular investments in research and development, industrial development, education and skills and the efficient use of resources at both national and european level. however, i myself still have doubts whether and to what extent investments can be effective, if they are not decided by private investors motivated by the desire to make a profit, but by officials and politicians. i am therefore pleased that in this resolution parliament has reiterated its support for structural reforms and has reiterated the importance of reducing the level of public debt. only then can the conditions for economic growth, on which jobs depend, be created. they are the main prerequisite for success in the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
in the last few weeks, i've seen shocking videos, photographs of the horrific behavior of the islamic state rebels, the beheading, the torture, the beastly speeches. we really have to try and stop this. i express my deepest sympathy for this situation and pray in these days for god's strengthening of those people in suffering and inhumanity. kobane is in a region where there is a mixed population of kurds, moderate muslims and syrians, as christians are called in this area of the middle east, where there are one million of them. they lived there in peace and had equal rights. as the european union, we should first of all expose the so-called islamic state to the public, prove their identity and brand them as criminals. declare their actions crimes against humanity and bring them to justice in the future. secondly, to provide financial and material support to the activists of the democratic initiatives in the kobane region. thirdly, to help the official representatives of syrian christians who are active in exile and in brussels as civil associations, with financial and material assistance, and fourthly, to call on turkey not to support the islamic state in any way.
when we talk about kobani, we should also openly mention how the entire region has been so massively destabilized, and so massively that an islamic state could have emerged. here, unfortunately, i have to make a massive criticism of europe's great ally, the united states of america. where the u.s. wanted to bring democracy, it brought chaos. egypt, libya, afghanistan, iraq, syria, everywhere, instead of democracy, they brought one big mess. iraq in 2003 in particular is a great sin of the united states of america, later followed by syria, today it is on the territory of iraq and syria that the islamic state was created. kobani is first and foremost a 'disaster' for us foreign policy. the european parliament, with a declaration or a debate of this kind, does not solve anything, and baroness ashton has made it clear what she thinks of the weight of the european parliament by never being here, but i think we should at least put things in clear terms, namely the reasons.
seventeen years ago, professor huntington wrote in his book clash of civilizations that the 21st century would be a history of clash of civilizations, and that the greatest conflict would be the conflict between our western civilization and the chinese-islamic civilization. after the end of the cold war, our western civilization lived under the illusion that our values affected the life of the entire planet, and we tried to implant these values into other cultures. so today we face a harsh reality that is vastly different from what we expected at the time. cultural and religious conflicts between different parts of the world, which have replaced ideological conflicts, are very clearly leading to this clash of civilizations. we must therefore realize that the future of so-called western civilization will be assured only if we are united. global politics is already multipolar and multicivilizational, and in this context the question arises to what extent the european union wants to work on its own military strength in the future, or to what extent we will be the initiators of better cooperation within the north atlantic alliance.
i am amazed to see the commitment of students in the streets of hong kong, to whom i wish to offer this distant expression of support. moreover, slovakia as part of czechoslovakia was for many years a country where political rights were not respected and where a narrow group of politicians in principle decided how and especially who we should vote for. elections should not be a mere formality. free and fair elections are one of the fundamental features of a democratic society. i firmly believe that the negotiations which began yesterday will bring concrete results and the situation will calm down.
hong kong is undoubtedly a harbinger of the sweeping democratic processes across china. sure, the communist party can stop them, but it turns out that it could only do so at the cost of great sacrifices, which would bring to light the brutal face of the chinese regime. it is a great challenge for the european union. despite the efforts to have good relations with china, in the event of a brutal repression of the demonstrations, the european union cannot remain silent, but this naturally leads to conflict with china. is the european union ready for this? there is conflict with russia, with islamic extremism, if you add conflict with china, the european union must be prepared for a long-term struggle. this situation requires a change in the entire foreign and security policy of the european union. in this context too, it is time to rethink the policy of strategic partnerships, which we talk about very loosely, and it is really necessary to put it in a clearly defined form, which countries are our strategic partners. these can be not just countries by size, but by values. but of course, without prejudice, we must also rethink the defence-military concept of the european union.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mr van dalen for taking the initiative to include this item in the agenda. for serious reasons i was unable to attend the sitting on monday, but i sent a letter to the president of parliament to condemn the death penalty for asi bibi at the beginning of the sitting, and i also supported the inclusion of this item in the agenda. in recent years, we have witnessed a number of murders and death sentences based on alleged blasphemy. the fact that no death penalty has been carried out is no excuse. i wonder how many lives could have been saved if the european institutions had taken a timely and principled stand. i ask the leaders of parliament, the council and the commission to respond, let us not miss another opportunity. the lord president of the council said in his speech that baroness ashton had spoken on the matter. my question is why her opinion wasn't widely published.
mr president, on the issue of isis foreign fighters, i would like to point to the situation in our close neighbourhood, the western balkans. between 200 and 600 fighters from bosnia, serbia and kosovo have travelled to syria since 2012. it is important to say that the home nations of these fighters are taking this issue seriously. bosnia has passed a law that throws convicted islamist recruiters into prison for up to ten years. kosovo has arrested 55 islamists and serbia has charged five jihadists. all these countries are considering strengthening their entire terrorism law. we member states should speak with one voice on this issue and also closely cooperate with our neighbours. we could work more effectively and get better results.
i consider that the settlement of the situation in ukraine is a priority not only for slovakia, my country of origin, but also for the european union as a whole. the peace of the european continent has not been threatened since the end of the second world war as it is today. while the results of russian occupation and intervention are chaos, destruction and suffering of the people, our activities are directed towards calm, stability and development. even today the situation is not simple and the facts must be clearly stated, the fact that people are still suffering and dying must be seen. therefore, it is necessary to do everything for a peaceful settlement of this conflict, which is possible only with the preservation of the territorial integrity of the country and the complete withdrawal of russian troops from the entire territory of ukraine. i believe that the upcoming parliamentary elections will also contribute to the calm situation for the security, peace and prosperity of the people not only in ukraine but in the whole european union.
the attempt by the russian ministry of justice to shut down one of the most prominent human rights organizations in russia is a sad reflection of the current russian regime. the apparatus of state power that seeks to control society and silence independent organizations is a step back towards totalitarianism. the state of democracy in russia has been problematic for a long time. without the voice of independent civil society organisations, society has no opportunity for self-reflection. the memorial is a symbol of the reflection that any healthy society needs. we in the european parliament have awarded the sakharov prize to this organisation and we have an obligation to stand up against what is happening to it. we will use our political weight and influence to support him and the values for which we award this prize.
member of the commission. - madam president, i note the near unanimity of support in all interventions for the resolution, with the exception of one solitary voice, but even though it is a solitary voice i think one should rebut certain strange arguments which are put forward in this chamber. i could not believe my ears when ms jaakonsaari then wanted confirmation. unsurprisingly, the confirmation came that what we heard was indeed true. the argument runs as follows: the russian economy is doing well – i have my doubts whether the russian economy is doing well – therefore russia has the right to dissolve human rights groups. because this was the illogical consequence of the argument – that when the economy is doing well in any country in the world, it has the right to suppress human rights. i was not expecting this argument to be put forward in this chamber, but it has been, and as some members have said, it is good to rebut these arguments – and not just ignore them, because the moment we ignore them, the moment people make their intervention and then do not remain here to listen to the rebuttal of that argument, then that argument becomes credible. so it is a good thing that we fight this argument because what has been done to memorial is not only damaging to memorial itself in russia, but to the entire civil society in russia. i would like to say what our high representative has done, what the commission has done. we have publicly expressed at the latest osce permanent council meeting last thursday and also at the council of europe yesterday our firm conviction, as a commission, that this decision is in contradiction with the very same international obligations which russia has adhered to. it is not just the european parliament condemning something politically, but that russia is not adhering to its international legal obligations as regards human rights. to this end i remind this house, as this house has also publicly declared, that it has paid tribute to the courage of this organisation and awarded the 2009 sakharov prize to memorial representatives, and that this was just a few months after the head of the chechnya office, natalya estemirova, had been brutally murdered. the steps taken by the justice ministry in russia take place in the context of a shrinking space for civil society, with the russian authorities attempting to weaken or suppress independent civil society organisations instead of empowering them. for the last two years, as this house knows, the so-called law on foreign agents has led many organisations, such as adc memorial and golos, to close down completely in order to avoid further criminal prosecution of their leaders, and some activists have also fled russia. so the union will continue to be fair in reminding the russian government of its obligation to respect international human rights obligations and standards. let me assure this house that whether or not we can resume our overdue human rights consultations with russia, the commission will keep on raising human rights issues with our russian partners and keep a close eye on many individual cases of concern to us all. furthermore, the commission will continue to extend its support to independent civil society in russia, which is crucial at this difficult moment.
in writing it is symbolic that, at the same time as deciding on the 2014 sakharov prize for freedom of thought, the european parliament is also fighting to preserve the existence of the 2009 laureate. the human rights non-profit organization memorial not only monitors human rights violations in russia during the soviet union, but also in the present day, and helps specific victims. the memorial's operation is in jeopardy. on november 13th, the supreme court will rule on its existence. in may this year, the organisation was ordered by a moscow court to register as a foreign agent for its 'political activities' in the field of human rights. however, memorial dissolved its structure after this call and although it continued to operate without registration, there is no legal basis for its dissolution. russia should consider whether a clerical error and the registration of the memorial are more important than freedom of speech. the european parliament considers that the main reason for the termination of the activities of the organisation is its activities in ukraine and its support for euromaidan. russia is sending a signal to all of us that it is not in its interest to end the conflict there, but to brutally silence the other side. it is of the utmost importance to preserve history in an unadulterated form and to support all institutions that are committed to preserving the memory of the nation. so let us not forget, especially we of the former communist bloc, what encouragement it has been for us from behind the iron curtain.
in writing - there is a need to provide assistance and support to ukraine in its extremely difficult political, economic and financial situation. one such measure by the european union is that the member states of the european union temporarily suspend the application of the dcfta until 31 december 2015, but during this period the autonomous trade measures in favour of ukraine will continue to apply. on the other hand, we must also ensure the protection of our european consumer. the extension of the application of the regulation in question appears to be the best possible course of action also taking into account the fact that exports from ukraine to the member states of the european union increased significantly in the first half of 2014.
in writing - ukraine our eastern partner is a country in difficulty today and we must help it. people in eastern ukraine are starving, homeless as a result of war, and innocent civilians - mothers and their children - are dying. that is why i supported the reduction of some and the elimination of others of the duties on ukrainian goods. the aim is to ensure existing conditions of access to the eu market and to minimise the risks of disruption to exports to the eu. this solution is part of a comprehensive peace process in ukraine respecting the territorial integrity of ukraine as well as its right to decide its future. that regulation will provide support to ukraine in its extremely difficult economic, political and security situation.
in writing. - what ? to help the people of ukraine, who have chosen a european future at the cost of many lives, the eu must strongly and sustainably support the building of their democratic institutions, while removing the obstacles to trade between the eu and ukraine. the volume of ukrainian exports of goods to the eu increased significantly in the first half of 2014 and this increase almost offset the decrease in exports from ukraine to russia. in view of the russian actions, a change of orientation from the russian market to the european market is necessary and so far this change seems to be proceeding successfully. the eu trade concessions were chosen in such a way that increased imports would not threaten sensitive sectors in the eu. the possibility to suspend these preferential trade measures in case of fraud is also maintained and their granting is conditional on ukraine's respect for democratic principles, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. in these circumstances, i could support the motion for a resolution tabled with a clear conscience.
in writing - there were concerns that the authority had a poor performance during 2012, mainly as a result of the fact that the organisation was only recently created at that time. however, it must be recognised that many aspects of performance have improved significantly, such as the rate of implementation of the budget, but also the implementation of payment appropriations compared to the previous period. the authority has taken a number of steps to address issues relating to commitments and transfers, but also in the area of monitoring monthly and year-end payments. however, it should also be noted critically that the rate of decommitted committed appropriations carried over to 2013 of 28% is still high.
in writing - the council's discharge was already rejected for 2009, 2010 and 2011 due to a lack of financial transparency and a continued refusal to provide information to the committee responsible in the manner customary for other institutions and bodies of the european union. citizens of the member states of the european union have a right to transparent information and the council's behaviour points rather to a democratic deficit and to the denial of democratic information to the public. it is important to address this issue politically and thus send a clear and positive message to the citizens of the member states. it is important that the council responds to the repeated calls of the european parliament to clarify the unanswered questions surrounding the construction of the europa building and the résidence building project, as well as to inform the stage reached in the administrative modernisation, in particular as regards the concrete implementing measures and their impact on the council budget.
in writing - the european commission proposal lays down specific rules on working time in the inland waterway transport sector by introducing an agreement reached at european union level between employers' representatives and employees. the agreement in question lays down minimum rules on working time for inland waterway passenger and freight transport workers. the new rules will apply to crew members and cabin crew and will complement the general directive which does not cover workers in the inland waterway transport sector. this agreement should contribute to improving the working conditions of 31 000 crew members.
the berlin wall was a tangible symbol of the cold war, which divided the peoples of europe for more than 40 years. the fall of the berlin wall heralded the collapse of the soviet union and the unification of germany. this weekend, we commemorated the 25th anniversary of a historic event for the entire democratic world. it is worth noting the democratic movements in poland, hungary and the former czechoslovakia, which inspired the people of the gdr to a great extent to resist dictatorship. it is very important that we do not forget the horrors of the cold war and constantly remember the heroism of the people who fought against an unjust system, for which they paid the highest price, with their own lives. it is very sad that we have failed to learn and we have failed to change things for the better, as evidenced by the situation in ukraine, syria and iraq, where hundreds of innocent people are still being killed and where individual states are suppressing the fundamental rights of their citizens. europe must remember the very ideals that led to the fall of the berlin wall and protect with far greater intensity those who are the targets of political oppression and violence in many regions of the world.
the fall of the berlin wall was one of the greatest milestones of the last century. it was proof that central planning and totalitarian restraint of freedom don't work and that the market and freedom are much more efficient. sadly, many people have forgotten these principles or have never identified with them. that is why more and more people today want to solve the crisis by more restricting the market. but the cause of the current crisis is not market failure, but, as in 1989, excessive central planning. so the solution today, as then, is more markets and more freedom. in the 25 years since the fall of the berlin wall, the world has changed dramatically, but the economic principles remain the same. and if anyone thinks that greater state intervention is beneficial, there is no better counterargument than the differences in living standards between the so-called eastern bloc and the western countries. that is why, even after a quarter of a century, we must not forget the fall of the berlin wall and, above all, the legacy it symbolizes.
in writing the fall of the berlin wall is a major historical event for the whole of europe. its anniversary commemorates the defining moments of our common history - the fall of the iron curtain that divided the continent for decades. the end of the cold war 25 years ago brought human courage in the form of the fall of the berlin wall in germany, the solidarity movement in poland, and the velvet revolution in what was then czechoslovakia. the year 1989 saw a series of events that are now key symbols of european unification. without them, the european union would not exist in its present form. the celebration of the quarter-century is proof that the european project is unique and still relevant, and only its continuation will bring the real and final erasure of the iron curtain from the mind map.
in writing. 25 years have passed since the fall of the wall that divided europe in two. everything seems to have gone so fast and the continent, despite the current economic crisis, seems to have found a modus vivendi that is unparalleled in the world. but we must remember that this peace is fragile. there are many examples of "stable" countries that have fallen into collective madness, and history is here to remind us of this. this reminder must be all the more important in view of the sensitive international context. let us therefore continue to give priority to dialogue without renouncing ourselves. the temptation to totalitarianism is never far away and the best way to achieve it is to give up. that is why, although peace is a matter of course for the younger generations of europeans, it must never be placed on the balance sheet of any negotiation. freedom is not negotiable. parts of europe have suffered too much, but, paradoxically, it is this same lack of freedom that has helped shape europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we did electronically vote on the vice presidents. but we always had the option of voting no. i don't know what the practice was now. the last time we had this in crimea, you could only vote yes. the referendum in crimea was ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the european court of auditors has once again found errors worth billions. for the 20th year in a row, it's been found that there are mistakes, and again nothing changes. these are only errors relating to irregular expenditure. it is not at all clear how much of the expenditure was unnecessary. the european court of auditors states that firstly, it is necessary to spend money, secondly, it is necessary to have some administrative rules, and only then is it considered whether it makes sense at all. this is all wrong. this is not the idea behind europe to take taxpayers' money and give it back. there's no point in politicians playing jesus, taking money from people and giving it to someone else. expenditures need to be cut. the common agricultural policy is a relic of the last century. it needs to be canceled. that's 50 billion right there. so are the eurogroup funds. they bring only evil to those lands.
in writing member states' finances and the common budget are under pressure. it is all the more important to manage carefully, but also to better estimate long-term funding requirements. the estimated error rate has decreased since 2007. he's still way above the threshold of significance. member states were able to prevent many unlawful withdrawals. on the other hand, from my own experience as a former mayor, i have examples of projects that took more than a year to be implemented before the control authorities recognised a clear case as eligible costs. such cases, by their bureaucracy, have contributed to the overall inefficiency. two messages are very important: (1) being wrong doesn't mean cheating or wasting. .2 the following: , on the other hand, the court's report is an excellent tool for the commission and the member states to reduce errors in the new programming period, we cannot focus on drawing funds at any cost under the slogan "if you don't use it, you lose it". we need to focus on the projects with the greatest added value . i 'm not .
despite the signing of the good friday agreement, we have unfortunately repeatedly witnessed sporadic but not ceasing protests, demonstrations or violence. the re-launched peace process in northern ireland must therefore aim at an early resolution of the conflict, as only through joint dialogue can we achieve the total elimination of violence. i therefore fully support the european parliament's resolution and believe that a constructive continuation of the peace process will follow without further violence. the measures proposed would not only contribute to the economic and social development of northern ireland, but also offer its people a vision of a secure and prosperous future.
the theme for 2015 will be 'our world, our dignity, our future'. what the future holds for the world's youngest country, south sudan, is hard to predict. the power struggle between two politicians, which has grown into ethnic killings, displacement and mass rape of women, affects us too. the african world is also our world, and not just in 2015. the motto of south sudan at its inception was 'justice, freedom and prosperity'. however, to achieve this, south sudan must take the first and most important step to care for its people, who are suffering from the war, and in particular to ensure their access to humanitarian aid. and we all have to work to stop the conflict from escalating further and drawing in children, who are the most vulnerable group, and becoming unwilling potential soldiers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in my speech i would like to address you on the statement made by president schulz. after the scottish referendum, president schulz said: in catalonia, flanders or south tyrol, much depends on what happens in scotland. if scotland were to achieve 'reasonable' self-determination 'under the united kingdom's roof', this could 'become a model that can contribute to peace in other regions'. i agree with what you have said, mr president, but i would like to draw the attention of all colleagues to the fact that, according to your statement, there is still an imaginary berlin wall. there are also communities in eastern europe for which democratically established autonomy can be an important advantage. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we should not forget that there are also minorities living east of the former iron curtain, whose situation is unresolved and whose democratic and legally guaranteed development should be in the interests of european democracies.
november 17th is not only a day to remember the struggle for freedom, but it is also a day to remember the world's premature babies. those who are with us, but also those who were too fragile to leave us. each year, as many as 15 million babies are born prematurely worldwide, and more than a million of these do not live to see their first birthday. this means that as many as one in ten babies are born weighing less than one ounce [2,500 g], and many times they are below the 1,000-gram mark. premature babies are exposed to many health complications, and many will face lifelong disabilities. it is therefore essential to improve the quality of healthcare for women during pregnancy and thus halt the rising trend of preterm births. it is also crucial to improve early care for these children to improve their quality of life and that of their families.
november 17 is as symbolic for the czech and slovak people as the fall of the berlin wall was for germany. twenty-five years ago, our people returned to europe. a united europe stands on the defeat of nazism and communism. it would be a threat to europe if we did not remember nazism and its crimes. but so does ignoring the crimes of communism. communism was defeated by the courage of men and women who believed in freedom and human dignity. the door to november '89 was opened by thousands of underground church activists and a candlelight demonstration in bratislava the year before. i also want to mention two great figures whose support meant a great deal to us at the time: pope john paul ii and president ronald reagan. the law finally triumphed over the lawless. freedom from totalitarianism. and i am very pleased to be able to remind you of this as a representative of the citizens of the slovak republic here in the european parliament.
in writing. - i supported the motion because i do not agree that a member of the european parliament should be punished for his statements, however controversial or inappropriate. the appropriateness or inappropriateness of members' statements should be assessed solely by the electorate, which can also decide whether to vote on the basis of those statements.
in writing - i voted against this motion because i am convinced that it will do more harm than good. special support for selected redundant workers at the expense of all eu taxpayers creates harmful incentives and further exacerbates the problems it seeks to address.
in writing - i did not support the proposal because it is wrong in principle and harmful. support for the unemployed who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation is financed by taxes from all other employees, or companies, which consequently have less money left to create sustainable jobs.
in writing the deteriorating relations between the european union and the russian federation have a significant impact on the entire region and thus also have a significant impact on the security situation in the republic of moldova. the republic of moldova has recently implemented the necessary reforms, indicating its readiness to apply for membership of the european union in 2015. relations between the european union and the republic of moldova have improved in recent times, as evidenced by the ratification of the association agreement, including the deep and comprehensive free trade area. it is important that the european union continues to support the highest representatives of political life in the republic of moldova in the implementation of fundamental reforms in the areas of justice, economy and human rights.
in writing. – i voted against this report as in this report the importance of anti-discrimination legislation to ensure equality was mentioned. this referred to lgtbi issues and is in my opinion not the competence of the european union but of the republic of moldova.
in writing, the republic of moldova is the next country to which we must open our doors if it meets all the conditions and its people wish to participate in the european project. moldova deserves such a chance. i support the pro-european government and its efforts to resist russian pressure, and i believe that in the elections scheduled for 30 november 2015, the moldovans will appreciate this.
in writing - i supported the proposal as it helps to eliminate trade and other barriers between moldova and the european union. the removal of these barriers is mutually beneficial for both parties as it will contribute to greater competition and economic freedom and thus ultimately to greater economic growth and employment.
in writing. - for moldova, today's vote on the association agreement is a promising sign in its march towards the european union. the european parliament voted by a very large majority (535 votes in favour, 94 against and 44 abstentions) in favour of this agreement, which at the same time allows chisinau to benefit from a comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement with the european union. while this positive signal is not an end in itself, it does encourage moldova to continue its reforms in order to establish itself definitively in a european perspective. despite an unenviable geographical situation in these times of regional unrest, we must continue to encourage moldova which seems to have chosen a forward-looking orientation rather than the status quo. the elections on 30 november will determine the future of this country, but the european parliament has sent a clear message by reaching out to it with this vote.
in writing - what ? the deteriorating relations between the european union and the russian federation have a significant impact on the entire region and thus also have a significant impact on the security situation in the republic of moldova. the republic of moldova has recently implemented the necessary reforms, indicating its readiness to apply for membership of the european union in 2015. relations between the european union and the republic of moldova have improved in recent times, as evidenced by the ratification of the association agreement, including the deep and comprehensive free trade area. it is important that the european union continues to support the highest representatives of political life in the republic of moldova in the implementation of fundamental reforms in the areas of justice, economy and human rights.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this association agreement as it will give the republic of moldova the chance of building a prosperous future for itself and its citizens within europe. it will help the citizens to get a better life and visa-free travel to the eu and reform their economy.
in writing - northern ireland is in a much better situation today than it was during the conflict period of the 1960s-1990s, when politically motivated killings were a regular occurrence and some 3500 people lost their lives. the peace process has progressed since the adoption of the belfast agreement, but significant conflicts related to sectarian and national identity persist in the country, contributing to occasional outbreaks of violence and disorder. today, paramilitary organisations in northern ireland continue to recruit new members and to destabilise the political situation and peace in the country. the government has recently reached a dead end on contentious issues and is unable to reach a compromise and adopt the necessary legislation to solve the country's fundamental problems.
in writing - i supported the motion, rejecting any violent solution to conflicts. violence harms all parties involved, and therefore i support instead the resolution of the existing economic problems, which is also spoken of in this resolution. the way to solve these problems is greater economic freedom. even greater prosperity achieved by increased freedom can contribute to the elimination of violence in northern ireland.
in writing. - for almost a year now, the dialogue on the northern ireland peace process has been stalled or even weakened by disagreements on issues such as social spending, the use of flags, emblems and parades. the text voted today is important in that it stresses the need for stakeholders to join the talks launched on 16 october 2014 and whose main objective is to support stability and the functioning of democratic institutions in northern ireland. the text also calls for work on a lasting resolution of the conflict, including through improved relations between communities and economic and social development. finally, he mentioned that the eu peace programme is providing €150 million to tackle priority issues in northern ireland and the border, for the benefit of all, north and south. the text can therefore only encourage the resumption of negotiations and is an encouraging sign of the european union's determination to achieve the ultimate objective of peace and reconciliation in northern ireland.
in the absence of a decision by the commission, the commission considers that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the cypriot authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim. despite several challenges from the european commission, turkey continues to question the existence of the republic of cyprus and its right to exploit and extract natural resources. the commission has also received comments from the turkish authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measures in question constitute state aid. the continuing problem between the republic of cyprus and turkey not only in the economic field has a very negative impact on turkey's accession process to the european union.
in writing. - i agree with the motion, as turkey's actions are in violation of international treaties to which turkey is committed. the turkish cypriot authorities have also provided additional information to the commission.
in writing. - the condemnation of turkey for its actions in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the republic of cyprus is a clear message that needed to be sent. by carrying out 'maritime studies' in the cypriot eez, turkey has blatantly violated the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus and international law. that is why this vote is a signal of firmness against the threats and actions of ankara which are undermining the process of negotiations to settle the cyprus question. it is also important to mention that the aim of the text is to prevent an escalation which could, in the short term, penalise turkey itself in its relations with the european union. in a particularly sensitive international context, dialogue must prevail more than ever. however, when a member state is faced with external pressures threatening its territorial sovereignty, parliament must play its part. that is what he has done today by sending a warning to turkey.
in writing. - what ? long-running fighting has already claimed more than 10,000 lives in the world's youngest and most fragile state. several observers note that the peace talks have brought only an imperceptible improvement in the situation and that the ceasefire agreement, which was concluded in january 2014 and subsequently confirmed in may, is being violated continuously and without any repressive measures. for a just and sustainable solution in the region, it is essential to establish an international commission of inquiry to investigate all allegations by the parties to the conflict and draw criminal conclusions from them. the commission in question should be given full support by the international community. it is essential that all countries in the region cooperate with south sudan to prevent the conflict from spilling over into other areas and thus contribute to a peaceful resolution of the ongoing crisis.
in writing - sudan faces violence and civil war. i voted against, in accordance with the agreement within the ecr group of which i am a member, and so other ecr colleagues joined me.
in writing - i supported the motion because i reject the violence being committed in south sudan. this violence has resulted not only in a number of needlessly lost lives but also in keeping the people of this country in poverty and degradation. as a country rich in natural resources (up to 70% of gdp is oil exports), south sudan's desperate situation is inexcusable.
in writing. - the resolution adopted by the european parliament on thursday reflects the importance which the european union attaches to the humanitarian situation in south sudan. the resolution also calls for a ceasefire and calls for targeted international sanctions and support for the establishment of a special international tribunal to prosecute leaders involved in human rights violations. this conflict, which has already killed more than 10 000 people and displaced 1.4 million, has created a dramatic humanitarian situation and we cannot stand by and watch this tragedy unfold. as the leading international contributor (38% of international contributions), the european union, and through it the european parliament, wishes to stabilise this young country whose tragedies weigh on the neighbouring countries as well as on europe. however, i very much regret that there are references in this text to sexual and reproductive rights and contraception. it is clear that such concepts will not solve the humanitarian situation in south sudan in any way and are only intended to discredit and destabilise a population already weakened by daily tragedies.
in writing. i have long been a critic of the policies of european commission president jean-claude juncker, but juncker has shown his inappropriate approach particularly openly in response to the current case of preferential tax regimes in luxembourg during his administration. the president of the european commission responded to these allegations by saying that it was precisely because of cases like these that the european union had to do more to harmonise taxes. in the case of the allegation of distortion of competition, juncker is basically seeking to ban competition altogether, which is absurd. unfortunately, a similarly incorrect approach is shared by several other members of the juncker commission. this is why i think that the european commission should not continue in its present composition.
if we want to talk about the millennium development goals, we have to decide whether we consider them a serious plan or a publicity stunt. if we take them literally, it means they ended up with a partial failure. extreme poverty and hunger have not yet been eliminated. we have not defeated hiv, malaria, or tuberculosis. a sustainable environment has not been achieved. the infant mortality rate was only cut in half, not two-thirds. it has failed to provide basic education for all children. but i think that kind of view would blind us to what's really important. a huge shift for the better has been achieved in all these areas. the millennium development goals should therefore be seen as a call for concrete action rather than a burning call for action. it's the most successful global development project. and if something works, you have to keep doing it. but abortion has never guaranteed any woman's health. the right to abortion, which is included among the so-called reproductive rights, is not the solution to infant mortality or maternal health, as the text presented in some paragraphs tries to tell us. women in developing countries need hospitals with doctors who abide by the hippocratic oath, not abortion clinics. we can ask dr. mukwege about it tomorrow. i support the efforts to continue successful development projects that deliver results.
decisions at european level affect over 500 million of our citizens, so it is really crucial that we know the impact and consequences of these decisions. the quality of the whole impact assessment process is therefore important for the whole development of our union. i want to emphasize the following three points. firstly, i consider job creation to be the most important priority, and therefore every proposal and every decision must be evaluated against this priority and, of course, the related impact on small businesses, because we know that the biggest employers are small businesses. secondly, the european commission has identified 10 priority areas and we should know the impact of individual legislative acts on these areas when making decisions, and it is important that these criteria are not contradictory and counterproductive, but that they are interrelated and complementary. last but not least, thirdly, i would like to stress the irreplaceable role of the european parliament as the only elected institution at european level and i personally look forward to working with the european commission on the impact assessment process.
if we are to start employment, we need to invest in projects with high added value. in many member states, more than 80% of public investment exists only because it is financed by the european budget. the europe 2020 strategy is to help us create new, quality jobs, improve quality of life, reduce poverty and social exclusion. the paradox is that on the one hand we know where the road to achieving our objectives leads, on the other hand the council has a problem financing what it has approved. she's not even able to give us a payment schedule for invoices for projects that have already been completed. this problem has been growing like a snowball for five years. if the council is sincere, if it wants jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, it must respect the rules on economic governance and budgetary discipline and deliver on its commitments.
in writing. the statistics we have are alarming: various indicators show that there are almost 25 million unemployed in the eu, with an unemployment rate of 10%. focus on poverty reduction and job creation is needed. it is also important to bridge the gap between member states, especially in regions far from the european average and standard. it is therefore in our interest to promote the single market, sustainable and inclusive growth and to focus on job creation. although youth unemployment is a serious problem for the eu, i am also convinced that we must not forget the older members of our society. demographic change and population ageing will directly affect the eu's social and economic model. so they can't surprise us.
in the case of a contract for the sale of goods, the contract is concluded between the debtor and the creditor, and the debtor is entitled to the payment of the amount of the debt. the european union has a significant position in the manufacture of railway rolling stock through a number of companies operating in this field. it is therefore important to provide strong international guarantees to creditors to increase investment in rail transport and, in the final phase, to create a leasing market for mobile rail equipment in europe.
in writing - the european union signed the convention in 2009. this convention concerns exclusive jurisdiction agreements concluded in civil and commercial matters. the european union should accede to this convention, which the united states of america is likely to ratify in the near future. if the european union does not accede to the convention, ratification by other countries may be delayed. consumer insurance contracts should be excluded from the scope of the convention.
in writing, the european commission received the request to mobilise the egf in may this year after 577 jobs were lost as a result of changes in the global trade pattern, namely in the global maritime industry, where the european union's share in the global context of new shipbuilding decreased. the closure of the undertaking in question will increase unemployment in the region and the high age and low level of education of the redundant workers will make it impossible for them to find adequate employment. the financial envelope should be eur 1 426 800.
in writing - this request concerns the release of funds of eur 918 000 for staff who worked in slaughterhouses in france which had to reduce production and capacity as a result of the economic and financial crisis. since 2007, per capita consumption of pork has decreased by up to 4 kilograms. gad is one such company, having recorded losses of eur 65 million over the last four years. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be used to cover personalised services for redundant staff.
in writing. - it is very important that the fundamental rights of every citizen of the european union are protected. the right to data protection is also a fundamental right and so, as with previous pnr proposals, the agreement between canada and the european union on the transfer and processing of passenger name record data places the primary responsibility on the european parliament and each member to represent the interests of the citizens of the member states.
in writing - in 2000, the millennium development goals were adopted, with which world leaders sought to contribute to the reduction of poverty in developing countries by 2015 through specific targets. however, we now see that society is still very far from achieving the set objectives and that the international community needs to focus on defining a new framework in this specific area. it is essential that society learns from the past and develops a new global framework for developing countries' development that is politically acceptable but also decisive in the fight against poverty.
in writing. in 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration, setting out the millennium development goals to be achieved by 2015. since the adoption of the sdgs, stakeholders have made significant efforts to reduce poverty, hunger and violations of fundamental human rights in particular, but this represents only a step in the right direction, which needs to be further deepened, in view of the scale of the situation of extreme poverty and humanitarian problems in the world. negotiations on a new framework after 2015 should therefore result in a renewed global partnership to ensure that the remaining global challenges are effectively addressed. like many other colleagues in the european parliament, i support an ambitious approach that would prioritise the protection of human rights, the eradication of poverty and sustainable development. on the contrary, i am opposed to the promotion of abortion as a sexual or reproductive right or a method of modern family planning in development policy, because the european union has a duty to protect the right to life and human dignity, and this duty under the eu charter of fundamental rights must be respected in all eu policy areas.
in writing. — i have abstained for the vote on the stier report as in general it calls for good issues (protecting of people and minorities), but it has some bad points in it as well, as for example point 28 which asks for ‘the promotion of universal access to sexual and reproductive health and rights’. i do not agree with this and therefore abstained.
in writing. as global problems such as poverty, hunger, lack of access to quality healthcare, poor education, high unemployment, especially among young people, gender inequality, environmental degradation persist, it is essential to find new solutions for development. i advocate that the european union actively engages in addressing these problems and encourages the involvement of other countries in activities aimed at ensuring sustainable development on earth.
in writing. - to achieve the europe 2020 goals, we need a more ambitious approach, especially in the area of unemployment and poverty. i agree with the european commission's proposal to review the strategy. economic growth alone does not guarantee better jobs, reducing poverty or reducing social inequalities, and these goals require appropriate policy choices. in addition to macroeconomic considerations, employment and social considerations should be taken into account to the same extent. administrative and bureaucratic burdens still make it difficult for self-employed persons, micro-enterprises and smes to make a living, and burdens need to be reduced. start-ups also want better conditions. the europe 2020 strategy is a strategy for the european union, which aims to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy by: this can help to increase the flexibility of the labour market and create conditions that support the capacity of enterprises to create jobs. however, it is regrettable that the mff adopted for the period 2014-2020 is the first eu budget with a net budget deficit of eur 960 billion. it may be useful for the purposes of the review of the strategy to consult together the parliament and the commission on the proposals made and the subsequent decision. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing - it is very important that member states start to translate the european union's objectives into their own national policies in a more ambitious and concrete way, especially in the areas of unemployment and poverty, as well as in the field of education. the european union must become competitive and this can only be achieved by improving education systems, which will lead to the creation of new highly qualified workers who will meet the demands of the modern labour market. the multiannual financial framework that has been adopted is unlikely to be sufficient to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, especially in the area of employment and social programmes and objectives.
in writing i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the employment and social aspects of the 2020 strategy, as i believe it is essential that employment in the eu is already on the upward curve. the resolution clearly identifies all the causes of high unemployment, especially among young people. the biggest cause is the mismatch of the education system with the working environment and the requirements of the labour market. the member states must therefore restructure their training and study programmes very quickly and support, also through the social fund, those sectors in which young people are able to find a real job after leaving the labour market. action needs to be taken very quickly and effectively, as we are already in the fourth year of the implementation of the 2020 strategy and an additional 16 million citizens need to be employed to meet the measurable target of 75% employment. the work plan of the new commission under mr juncker provides the basis for the employment target of the 2020 strategy, but the commission will need to make a stronger appeal to member states to also integrate this strategic objective into their national programmes.
in writing. social aspects are becoming increasingly important in the european union. the main priority of the europe 2020 strategy should be to ensure inclusive growth with high levels of employment and to reduce the number of people living in poverty or at risk of social exclusion. it is also essential to support the young generation at the beginning of their professional careers and therefore to combat youth unemployment, as the youth unemployment rate is up to twice as high as that of adults (22%, compared to 10,2%).
we have a clear vision of a budget that will support growth and jobs in the european union. that's not enough for a good result when the council can't even tell us when it's going to pay off the old debts. if the path to our common goals were to look like a budget conciliation procedure, the common project called the european union would be seriously jeopardised. that is why, commissioner, we must base the european union's budgets on different principles and independence from the economic and political situation in the member states. what we can do together more effectively needs to be transferred from the national to the european level. for example, the common security and defence policy alone could save europe €26 billion a year, the amount the council owes on unpaid invoices. the question is: what do we do to agree on the 2015 budget? we will have to ask the heads of european governments to step in with all seriousness. the european union must be a trusted partner even in times of trouble.
for the ecr group. we know the rough figures on how many women are victims of violence. we know from the anonymous forms and the inquiries how big a problem this is. but let me draw your attention today to another number, the anonymous one. only 14% of domestic violence victims actually have the courage to turn to the authorities whose job it is to protect us. what does it say about trust in the police that while sweden has 47 rapes per 100,000 inhabitants, greece, hungary, or slovakia, for example, have only two or three rapes per 100,000? no, it's not the fundamental differences between people, the difference is in trust. trusting that if i go to the police, i won't have another painful experience, but i will encounter a sensitive investigative approach that is tailored to the needs of the victims, that i won't be recording the perpetrator, that i will find safety and no reason to doubt whether the step of reporting the crime was really the right one, that the medical staff will recognize my problem and immediately advise me on the options to protect myself, that the investigators and judges will respond quickly, not condone the suffering, but punish the crime and protect the victim. the issue of violence against women is not just a problem for women and their families, but for all of us. each of us can help by not being indifferent or judgmental. so please, let's not ask if the victims had clothes, what they were wearing, were they where we judge they shouldn't have been, but let's always ask first and foremost how we can help them.
in writing. even in the 21st century, we still face the mental and physical violence that all women face around the world. violence against women is the most brutal form of gender inequality and violates fundamental human rights. one in five women in the eu has been exposed to psychological violence and one in ten has also been exposed to sexual violence. the commission is working to adopt legislation to prevent violence against women. the protection of women is needed throughout the eu, and we must therefore ensure that detention and protection orders issued in one member state are recognised and automatically recognised in all member states. this can be achieved by ensuring that women at risk of domestic violence can move freely throughout the eu. however, it should also be borne in mind that women who are subjected to physical violence rarely report the attack on their person to the competent authorities. in the future, therefore, complaints should be collected and recorded more thoroughly and a database of abusers should be created which could be compared across member states. violence against women is a very serious social problem that must not be ignored. i therefore warmly welcome the activities of the european commission through the daphne iii and progress programmes, which will continue in the future through the rights, equality and citizenship programme.
for the ecr group. for more than 10 years, protection against discrimination has been one of the areas where european law has sought to positively impact people's daily lives in the european union, yet today too, many children, women and men face discrimination on a daily basis. as i have been involved in helping people with disabilities or people from socially disadvantaged backgrounds for a long time, as well as in education, i see unequal access to education as one of the main areas of discrimination in slovakia. although our legislation speaks of integration, in practice it hardly happens at all. similarly in employment, many employers would rather pay penalty payments than hire a disabled person. according to a recent survey by the institute for financial policy of the ministry of finance of the slovak republic, if a job applicant has a name that suggests that he belongs to the roma national minority, he has a significantly lower chance of being invited to an interview at all. but our society is paying and will pay for this segregation, not only in the enormous economic loss of these people's untapped potential, but also in the consequences of denying self-realization and human dignity to this broad group of people. i therefore call on the member states not only to create a legislative framework to help discriminated groups of people, but also to create the conditions for its effective application, so that individual governments ensure that if someone is denied such a right, there is someone to turn to for effective help and redress.
written. i support the plan put forward by the european commission, which is a good stimulus to kick-start the growth needed. europe must become more attractive to investors and this investment plan will help to improve our competitiveness. the return on private investment is always higher and it is therefore good that this project has the ambition to mobilise mainly private investment.
in writing. - what ? the main objective of this regulation is to take account of the new supervisory powers of the european central bank under regulation (eu) no 1024/2013. this particular regulation gave the european central bank new powers in the field of the supervision of credit institutions. the final version of the proposal incorporates some important changes to ensure the protection of private and confidential data that the european central bank will use in its new supervisory tasks.
in writing. - i support the proposal because it contributes to a more efficient collection of statistical information by the european central bank. several provisions of the proposal also limit the possibilities of falsifying statistics or providing misleading statistical information. this was one of the reasons for the current debt crisis, as we saw in the case of greece.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis that hit the european union and its people hard has highlighted the lack of regulation and supervision in the financial sector. these new powers of the european central bank are the result of the extension of its role in the single supervisory mechanism. the main changes concern in particular the definition of penalties, the general principles of applicability, the sanctions for failure to comply with obligations and the procedural rules relating to the initiation of infringement proceedings. a more tightly managed and integrated economic and monetary union is a prerequisite for the euro to remain the single currency for the countries in the monetary union.
in writing. - what ? i abstained because some parts of the bill are favorable, but others i disagree with. in particular, provisions that make the european central bank's work more efficient are beneficial. however, several other provisions increase the ecb's lack of transparency and even push it to the systemic level. in particular, the provision provides that the ecb may postpone the publication of a decision for up to three years even if the ecb considers that immediate publication of the decision would jeopardise the stability of financial markets. this provision will allow the ecb to refuse to publish virtually any decision at its discretion, provided that it 'considers' that its publication will have a negative impact on the stability of financial markets.
climate change is threatening the entire planet. its effects are slowing economic growth, making it harder to eradicate poverty and weakening food security. i supported the resolution because the urgency of the need to act to address the global climate crisis is very acute. daily, the media report on various natural disasters that affect mankind on all continents. every year, at various international conferences and here in the european parliament, we adopt resolutions and challenges, but over time we again find that there is little or no progress in this area. i therefore expect the new commission to take a more active stance on tackling the global climate crisis and to make clear that climate change is one of the most important strategic priorities. the european union should be a leader in international agreements and a unifier of the positions of the various international institutions on the adoption of concrete global action to combat climate change.
in writing. the cop 20 conference of the parties to the un framework convention on climate change will be held in lima, peru, from 1 to 12 december. it is of the utmost importance to the european parliament that the conference in question makes substantial progress in defining the main points of the forthcoming climate agreement, which should be concluded in 2015. the main objective is to increase global climate ambition over the next five years, in particular by increasing funding to reach the target of usd 100 billion per year by 2020. the planned lima conference will be key to the establishment of an ambitious and legally binding international agreement to be signed in paris next year, setting out climate action beyond 2020.
in writing. - i did not support the motion because i am convinced it will lead to exactly the opposite of what is intended. already, current climate targets and other eu environmental policies are driving many companies out of europe, to countries such as china or india, where environmental standards are much lower. as a result, the eu economy and employment suffer, but overall emissions may rise. in such a situation, efforts to further enforce climate goals are irresponsible, as they will further reinforce the aforementioned trend.
mr president, palestinian people deserve a sovereign state just as israel has the right to live in peace. as a friend of israel i support the recognition of palestinian statehood. the move is not meant to undermine israel’s position; on the contrary, its purpose is to rescue the two-state solution, which is the only alternative for israel’s security. today, after the failure of kerry’s initiative, after violence in jerusalem, it is time for the eu to assume more responsibility. recognition of palestine is a powerful diplomatic tool; we should use it wisely to help restart peace negotiations. recognition of the palestinians in the pre-1967 borders will strengthen all those israelis and palestinians who believe in the two-state solution. mr netanyahu may not like to hear it, but i am convinced that recognising palestine could be one of the eu’s greatest contributions to israeli security.
we are 25 years into the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, ushering in a new era of seeing the child as a human rights holder. much has been done over the years to implement children's rights. however, there is a large group of children who are discriminated against because of their age and whose rights are ignored. they're babies conceived before they're born. in slovakia, four non-governmental organizations issued the declaration of the rights of the unborn child 15 years ago to draw attention to the need to enforce the rights of unborn children. under the laws in force in several european countries, children conceived have the right to inherit, to be gifted, to be given a decent burial. yet, they are legally denied the right to be born. it is therefore necessary to emphasize that every unborn child has the inalienable and inalienable right to be born, as the pope emphasized here yesterday. he has the right to life, to be protected by law from conception to natural death. i believe it is in the best interest of the child to be conceived and born in the marriage of one man and one woman, and has the right to be conceived and carried in the womb of his mother.
last week we commemorated the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child. on this occasion, the european commission hosted a 17-year-old slovak, dominik drdúl, who was born with a disability. in his speech, he pointed out, among other things, that the number of children in institutional care is increasing and that i quote 'it is a terrible place for children and i am very angry that this is still happening in the european union, as it is in breach of the convention on the rights of the child.' it is shocking and unacceptable to me that there are still places where children with disabilities live in inhuman and degrading conditions, such as the children's home in the greek city of lechaina. according to media reports, children with mental disabilities are drugged and literally locked in cages in this institution, their personal movement is limited to a minimum. we cannot accept this kind of treatment. i therefore call not only on greece but also on other member states where similar practices occur to ensure that these children have decent living conditions in community facilities in accordance with the convention on the rights of the child and the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
according to article 3 of the convention on the rights of the child, states are to respect the rights and obligations of parents in ensuring the protection of the child. according to article 14, states are to respect the rights and obligations of parents in guiding a child in the exercise of his or her right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. according to article 18, parents have the primary right to educate their child. under article 29, they are to ensure that the education of the child also develops respect for his or her parents, cultural identity and values. article 35 requires them to prevent trafficking in children by all means. today, in europe, these provisions are routinely ignored. many member states do not respect the rights and obligations of parents in relation to their own children. this is especially evident in situations where parents disagree with aggressive sex education, and states do not hesitate to use violence to violate one of the rights of the child guaranteed by this convention. and legalizing surrogacy is just turning a blind eye to child trafficking. but we find none of that in this resolution. family is mentioned only twice. once in relation to family allowances and then again in point 23, which deals with family reunification. instead of condemning the gross violation of children's rights in the european union, the proposal seeks to problematize their gender and sexual identity. the convention defines a child as a person between the ages of 0 and 18 years, and sexual identity is not defined in international law at all. the resolution seeks to protect children in different situations and at different ages, but not one sentence protects the right of a child to be born. for these reasons too, i do not consider that the resolution as it stands is a worthy reminder of the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child.
the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child should also be an opportunity to highlight the fact that many children are still discriminated against, suffer from hunger and poverty, lack access to education and health care, and are homeless. children are the most vulnerable in every state, in every institution, and that's why protecting them is so important. we know the problems of children in underdeveloped countries and in countries where there is violence and war, but even developed europe has not yet dealt with the problems of child sex discrimination, sexual exploitation, child labour, poverty and lack of access to education. modern technology, such as the internet, aggressive advertising, and cyberbullying, also contributes to the threat posed not only to children's education but to their own education. that is why it is important to talk about children's issues, not only at the anniversaries of the un convention, but also in the adoption of various policies in the context of education, health care, poverty, support for families, foster families, and homeless children. i support the resolution and hope that at the next anniversary we will be able to talk about improving the implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child.
commissioner, at the g20 summit you again stated that europe lacks growth. this is not surprising at all, because europe is doing everything possible to ensure that there is no growth. it raises taxes, it degrades the business environment, the european union is constantly inventing new regulations and setting unrealistic climate targets. and then everyone is just surprised that there is no growth, that companies are leaving europe. the only solution that the european union can come up with is more government spending, more of what caused the debt crisis, more spending, more debt. if the european union is to really tackle growth and really reduce unemployment, it has to bankrupt banks and fail-safe states, it has to reduce regulation, it has to stop overprotecting the environment, it has to stop over-targeting climate change, and it has to systematically improve the business environment.
written completion of the digital market is key to stimulating growth and jobs in europe. however, this cannot be done without the creation of an eu data protection framework and a cybersecurity directive. the current digital landscape is highly fragmented, with 28 national markets and different legislation in each. too many barriers block the free movement of goods and online services across national borders. current research suggests that a deeper and more complete digital market could boost the gdp of the eu-28 by at least €340 billion a year and create around 2.5 million jobs in total. a competitive digital single market cannot exist without fast, high-capacity broadband and telecommunications networks in all eu regions, but neither can it exist without the protection of personal data, privacy and security of electronic communications. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic communications networks and services. and we can build it.
for the ppe group. first of all, i would like to thank the chair of the committee on development policy, mrs linde mcavan, for taking on the role of rapporteur for a document which the committee had actually approved in the last parliamentary term. i also thank the colleagues responsible for this subject in the various political groups for their cooperation in the submission of amendments. it has already been mentioned that this week we voted on the post-2015 document with the millennium development goals. malnutrition is a truly complex problem that weighs on society as a whole. it is a burden because malnutrition does not respect the basic human right, namely the right to a life of dignity for the very youngest, for those children who are hungry. when you consider that every minute a few children die, not because their countries are at war and not because they are sick, but because they are hungry. and it's not just these children who are dying, it's other children, thousands and thousands of children who are suffering from this malnutrition for their entire lives. we're talking about numbers here -- i think we know those numbers pretty much by heart, but it's important to collaborate, it's important to collaborate with the institutions of the european union, but also with other organizations that deal with food, especially with fao. there's supposed to be a meeting this week, and i think that cooperation should be closer. and just one sentence: i believe what the commissioner said at the hearing, that we will look more at poverty, we will look more at hunger than we will look at climate change.
nearly one billion people in the world suffer from hunger, and 2.6 million children in developing countries die each year from malnutrition. in mali, it is estimated that by the end of 2014, some 500,000 children will suffer from acute malnutrition in that country. the causes of child malnutrition are varied, and the overwhelming majority are human-caused. that means they can be avoided. often, conflict and political instability are the main causes of child malnutrition. we therefore need more methods, statistics and monitoring of the impact of different types of conflict on children and their nutrition. governments in developing countries must create an environment for better child nutrition and care. this is why national plans and strategies need to be better coordinated. for our part, the commission and the member states should mobilise long-term financial resources and investments in the field of nutrition and cooperate effectively with international organisations. financial assistance, investments and financial resources are of paramount importance in combating the threat of acute malnutrition in developing countries. however, in many cases - mali or syria being examples - stopping the conflict, preventing violence and creating political stability through diplomatic and political negotiations is certainly as essential as foreign financial assistance.
ladies and gentlemen, try to imagine that your sister is on death row in pakistan and you can't help her. or there's a citizen of our country locked up, what do we do? asia bibi, for example, is a victim of religious intolerance, and we europeans, as human rights defenders, have an obligation to help her. she's a christian woman who tried to quench the thirst of muslim women, and they turned her in under blasphemy laws and she went to jail. she's in solitary confinement, often beaten, hungry and thirsty. our society is built on helping those in need. saving a mother of five who is being punished for helping a neighbor just because she is a christian is worth the extreme effort to save her. people in eastern europe know this, we have experienced persecution for our faith by communist regimes and christians have suffered. after 25 years of the regime, i must say that in many countries freedom of religion is a luxury. many countries like pakistan, iraq and syria do not allow the freedom to believe in god, that's not right. spreading fear through religion is not worthy of these times. mercy is not rewarded with death. in the civilized world, help is rewarded. irrational blasphemy laws create an opportunity to persecute, persecute, criminalize people of other faiths.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i fully understand the evil of wartime rhetoric and hate speeches against neighbouring countries and minorities, especially in the western balkans. therefore, i will always fight for policies of peace and reconciliation. šešelj’s public appearances go precisely against these principles. our response, however, should not create more tensions, and especially not by giving this accused war criminal more attention than he deserves. i think it is unfortunate that šešelj’s radical statements have been given such unnecessary publicity and attention by the media and some politicians. i only hope that they are not going to be used as an instrument for further political tension in the region. i am also convinced that this resolution is not a good place to give instructions to the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty). it is an independent international body created by the united nations and has a clear mandate. for these reasons, i hesitate to support this resolution.
in writing. on 25 november, we commemorate the international day for the elimination of violence against women, and i am pleased that we have been able to discuss this topic with the commission in recent days, also here in the european parliament. although the statistics on violence against women perpetrated on the european continent are breathtaking, they are still less alarming than those outside the european union. the brutal violence faced by women in the congo was spoken of yesterday by the sakharov prize laureate, gynaecologist denis mukwege. but similar atrocities are also becoming more common in iraq. the whole world must condemn the sexual slavery, forced marriages, trafficking of girls, often as young as 12, and the humiliation and deprivation of human dignity that these practices bring. as is increasingly being said, the self-proclaimed islamic state has nothing to do with islam, and therefore it would be extremely important that the highest representatives and authorities of the islamic religion condemn not only the violence committed against women, but especially its actors. the holy father said in plenary this week that it is the forgetfulness of god that breeds violence. if the world is silent, if we are silent, we become accomplices in this brutal violence.
in writing. – today i voted for the juncker-led commission, because political stability should be maintained. however i do not agree with mr juncker’s view expressed during the monday plenary debate that we could avoid the reoccurrence of the current situation only if we introduce tax harmonisation in the eu. i am of the view that tax harmonisation would not solve the problem. what is more, it would only worsen the overall situation. in my opinion, the key is not to provide exceptions and to prevent the possibility of trickery, which is not by any means equal to tax harmonisation. introducing eu tax harmonisation would lead to the end of internal competition, which would encumber the situation of those member states behind the eu average. it would significantly reduce their ability to contribute to their own economic development and in the end it would create new burdens for the eu. if member states are not able to self-develop because their advantages from lower tax rates are eliminated by tax harmonisation, sooner or later it will be the eu who will finance their development through its funds. we should also bear in mind that in those member states that apply lower tax rates wages and the standard of living are often also lower.
in writing. - the newly elected president of the european commission was prime minister of the grand duchy of luxembourg during a huge scandal where member states lost billions of euros through tax evasion, through tax avoidance in luxembourg, which makes him directly responsible for the situation. the question therefore arises as to whether he is competent to represent the citizens of the european union and what is his credibility with the citizens. an independent commission should be set up to thoroughly investigate the 'lux leaks' case, which casts unfavourable suspicions on the new european commission from the very beginning.
in writing. today i voted to remove mr juncker as president of the european commission. a politician should be consistent in his work and in his statements. jean-claude juncker, on the one hand, declares that he will actively fight tax evasion, but his past actions show otherwise.
in writing. the european commission has clear objectives, in particular in terms of promoting growth and improving employment. this also relates to tax policy, where we need to distinguish clearly between unacceptable tax evasion and the necessary stimulation of growth through tax policy.
in writing. - i supported the dismissal of the current european commission, including the scandal of president juncker. it is extremely hypocritical that jean-claude juncker, who is now president of the european commission, has been the luxembourg prime minister who has supported preferential tax regimes for companies, and who is now fighting vigorously against tax havens and tax optimisation. i also disagree with juncker's reaction to this scandal in an attempt to avoid such cases in the future to harmonise taxes across the european union. tax harmonization is harmful and leads to less economic freedom and thus less prosperity. for these reasons alone, i am convinced that the current european commission under jean-claude juncker should not go any further.
in writing. cohesion policy, together with co-financing, which also involves the member states, is the source of the main public expenditure related to the growth of the european union. any delays associated with the implementation of cohesion policy in the years 2014-2020 will weaken the ability of national authorities to plan and use european structural funds effectively. it is therefore essential that the european commission pushes for and calls for the implementation of operational programmes as soon as possible and does not thereby impede the flow of european funds to the member states.
in writing. - what ? i am deeply concerned about the delayed start of the implementation of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, which was due to start immediately in 2014, but this year is almost over and we have not seen progress in the adoption of operational programmes in the member states. as we already know from the experience of the previous programming period 2007-2013, such a significant annual delay will cause significant delays throughout the coming period and undermine the credibility and functionality of cohesion policy. the regions that will suffer most are those with legitimate expectations, but where concrete investments will not be made due to delays in programming, probably not even in 2015. it should be borne in mind that the weakening of investment dynamics also affects job creation, economic growth and competitiveness. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts in adopting operational programmes.
in writing. - what ? i supported the joint motion for a resolution and fully endorsed it, as i regard the delay in the start of the implementation of cohesion policy for the years 2014-2020 as very serious. the end of the commission's term of office and the election of a new commissioner certainly contributed to this, but this cannot be an excuse. a year ago we approved derogations for romania and slovakia to apply the n+3 rule for the drawdown of the european funds. if we postpone the start of cohesion policy implementation for 2014-2020 until next year and the operational programmes are approved as they have been so far, i fear that before 2020 we will again approve derogations for all the countries that will not be able to invest in growth, development and employment from the individual structural funds. the commission should therefore submit to parliament as soon as possible the measures it intends to adopt in order to facilitate the implementation of operational programmes with a forecasted timetable as soon as possible.
in writing. cohesion policy 2014-2020 is the european union's main investment instrument for achieving the europe 2020 objectives. as the creation of growth and jobs and the support of smes are the main priorities under this strategy, it is essential that the european union ensures the timely implementation of cohesion policy. only then will she be able to fulfill her goals.
in writing. - what ? i do not agree with the proposal because i do not see the delayed start of the implementation of cohesion policy for the years 2014-2020 as a problem. i also disagree with the text of the proposal which intends to use this policy to maximise the results of 'investments, promote job creation and increase productivity growth'. since all these funds are used at the expense of the taxpayers, it is not possible to speak of support for investment, employment and productivity. i also disagree with the cohesion policy programme being complemented by the investment package announced by the european commission of eur 315 billion. this investment package, like cohesion policy projects, only continues to drain resources from the productive economy and further increases centrally planned redistribution at the expense of the market.
in writing. — i welcome the initiative to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child by adopting a resolution. this convention is the most ratified un convention; however, there are still millions of children in need all over the world, suffering mainly from poverty, malnutrition, violence and abuse. we should not be mistaken that these issues concern only the developing world. there are also cases when children in the eu are in need and the circumstances for their development and carefree childhood are not guaranteed everywhere. as mentioned in the resolution i would like to call on the commission, in revising regulation (ec) no 2201/2003, to take serious note of the best interests of the child, in view of the loopholes in the implementation and enforcement of this regulation in the member states as regards parental and custody rights and furthermore to put forward specific measures to ensure that the adoption practices carried out in the member states are in the best interests of the child. i ask the member states to take their obligations stemming from the convention and its optional protocols seriously as it is the best investment into the next generation.
in writing. the protection of children's rights is one of the european union's most fundamental values and the union is committed to the full implementation of the convention and calls on the member states to continuously improve their national legal systems and adopt new laws to protect children. however, the european union must continue to develop integrated guidelines and legislation to ensure the protection of all children across the member states from all forms of violence. the european commission's main task is to ensure that the most disadvantaged and vulnerable children receive the necessary financial support from the multiannual financial framework. it is essential that the european union continue initiatives to provide psychological support and assistance to children who have been victims of war or violent events and to ensure their access to quality education in the future.
in writing. twenty-five years have passed since the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child and some progress has been made, but children's fundamental rights continue to be violated not only in the world but also right here in the european union. i would stress that the un convention on the rights of the child and its protocols represent only the basic standard for the protection of children's rights and the quality of their lives. however, a modern 21st century society should commit to the deepening of the fundamental rights of the child in accordance with the principles of the best interests of the child and non-discrimination, as well as the right of the child to life, survival and development. i am highlighting above all an essential right, namely the right to life, on which all other rights of the child depend. unfortunately, the right to life is not explicitly guaranteed or protected in the prenatal stage, allowing for practices that destroy human life before birth and even allocating public funds to do so. i consider such practices, like the two million eu citizens who officially supported the 'one of us' citizens' initiative, to be unacceptable and contrary to the rights of the child. i therefore reiterate my call on the european union and the member states to adopt coherent legislation and policies to protect the rights of children and not to overlook the need to protect their life and integrity in the prenatal stage.
in writing. it is 25 years since the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, marking the beginning of a new era in the perception of the child as a human rights holder. under the laws in force in several european countries, conceived children have the right to inherit, to be gifted, and to be buried with dignity. yet, they are legally denied the right to be born. i believe it is in the best interest of the child to be conceived and born in the union of one man and one woman. he has the right to be conceived and carried in his mother's womb.
in writing. it is essential that member states and the european commission work actively to remove all existing barriers and constraints that impede the development of the digital single market, which is necessary to achieve economic and employment objectives and, not least, to strengthen the competitiveness and position of the european union in the global economy. the development of the european digital single market also requires the accelerated adoption of a new package on the protection of personal data and the need to increase investment in the fight against cybercrime through legislative measures.
in writing. the digital sector plays an important role in generating growth and jobs. in order for europe to compete with other players in the world, the digital single market needs to be completed as soon as possible. it will not only provide european citizens with a better functioning public sector, but also enable the development of cutting-edge innovative technologies in cooperation with private entrepreneurs.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal to remove administrative barriers in the digital market in the eu, as well as with the proposal to remove all other administrative barriers between countries. however, in addition to removing this administrative burden, the proposal also calls for a significant increase in other administrative burdens, or for significant market intervention elsewhere, and i therefore did not support the proposal. the main market intervention presented in the proposal is to try to separate internet search engines from other commercial services and to try to influence the results in these search engines, for example, if they are considered to be 'discriminatory', not to maintain 'diversity of information sources' and so on.
in writing. the right to food and nutrition is one of the crucial areas for the fulfilment and achievement of the millennium development goals. yet, more than 170 million children under the age of five suffer from malnutrition or some other form of disease. the european union aims to substantially reduce the number of malnourished children by 2025, which it wants to achieve through the coordination of policies in the fields of rural development, sustainable agriculture, public health, hygiene, social security and education. it would be appropriate for the european commission to review in the future the measures taken and the targets achieved and, if necessary, to reallocate the funds already committed, thus contributing to the objectives set by 2025.
in writing. - i welcome and support the adoption of the european parliament resolution on malnutrition and undernutrition of children in developing countries. i find it unacceptable that, 14 years after the adoption of the mdgs, the world still suffers from hunger and acute chronic malnutrition, with some one billion people and 225 million children under five years of age, of whom more than 2.5 million die each year in developing countries from chronic malnutrition. as a physician, i must also draw attention to the problem of so-called hidden hunger, which affects nearly two billion people who suffer from chronic deficiencies of vital vitamins and nutrients. this condition severely weakens immunity and increases susceptibility to birth defects, developmental defects, and infections. i am aware that the scale of the problem requires a global approach and, above all, the focusing of development policy and its financing on clear objectives and priorities. i therefore stress the need to focus primary attention on the care of pregnant women and children up to three years of age, who have specific nutritional requirements due to growth and development, but also susceptibility to disease. in conclusion, i would like to express my satisfaction that the standing committee on food of the united nations has adopted a plan to improve nutrition.
in writing. - i supported the ep's motion for a resolution on malnutrition and undernutrition in children in developing countries, which identifies the state and causes of malnutrition in children in the world, but also seeks solutions to improve the situation. even today, in the 21st century, we must acknowledge that nearly a billion people still suffer from hunger, and at least 225 million children under five suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition, stunted growth as a result of chronic malnutrition of infants and mothers, with an estimated 2.6 million of these dying each year in developing countries. the biggest problem of child malnutrition is the problem of food availability and adequacy, which means that food must be safe and must meet nutritional needs. therefore, development and emergency programmes of different policies and countries must be coordinated to improve nutrition for children as well as mothers.
in writing. - what ? i am fully aware of the importance of malnutrition in children in developing countries and the need to act on it. the text of the resolution also correctly identifies the origins of child malnutrition, including in ineffective governments that restrict people's freedom. however, i do not agree with some of the solutions proposed in the text of the proposal. these include a call to increase the eu's budget for development aid, the lifting of the reduction in agricultural appropriations in the european development fund and a welcome for the european commission's plan to reinvest €3.5 billion between 2014 and 2020 to improve nutrition in the poorest countries. as we have seen many times, development aid from the european union (and western countries in general) is not only ineffective, but often leads to the exact opposite of what is intended. poor countries do not need an endless flow of foreign financial aid. what poor countries really need are effective institutions that will enable them to create wealth and be self-sufficient.
i believe that we all share a responsibility to protect nature around the world, which is why we support this convention, which the european union as a whole should join. the common european market is one of our greatest assets, and it is therefore essential that we act together in this area as well, because this convention on international trade concerns the common european market and our common european approach. as is well known, the history of the convention dates back to 1 july 1975 and covers more than 35 000 species of endangered animals and plants. let me emphasize that among slovak species, these are such rare species as the golden eagle, the falcon, and the river otter. the accession of the european union to cites provides for greater transparency of the union's legal position within cites vis-à-vis third parties to the convention. the current observer status has rather been a disadvantage and has not allowed the union to fully implement the objectives of environmental policy. the union will contribute each year 2,5% of the total cites trust fund, which is approximately eur 115 000 for the next year, with a corresponding reduction in member states' contributions. this is further evidence of the advantage of a common european approach. accession will enable the commission to take a unified position on behalf of the union and thus improve the eu's position in the control of international trade. i believe that our agreement of the european parliament to the accession of the union to this convention on international trade will not only contribute to a more effective protection of endangered species of wild fauna and flora, but will also speed up the decision-making process and, in particular, harmonise the necessary common european procedure.
international trade in wildlife severely limits the survival and development of animal species and plant specimens worldwide. after all, many of you have already mentioned it. cites thus ensures the protection of over 35 000 species and makes a significant contribution to controlling illegal international trade in this area. at present, the member states are parties to the convention, but we believe that the time has come for a change in status and for the european union, which is currently only an observer, to be given new powers. accession to cites will not affect the rights and obligations of the member states, as the european union will only vote on those issues that relate to the acquis and individual member states will continue to vote on all other matters. however, the accession of the european union to cites will ensure greater transparency of the legal environment and the position of the european union vis-à-vis third parties to the convention.
i very much welcome the european union's accession to cites, because i expect a united stance in protecting endangered species and biodiversity throughout the european union, which is our moral responsibility. we often think of them as exotic species, but many of our rare domestic protected species are preyed upon by local and international gangs, often in very sophisticated ways, and under the guise of being legally bred. within the european union, largely without border controls, it is simply impossible to maintain order without a concerted effort. there must be a unified and interconnected system of registration, tracking of movements of individuals coming from the trade and from breeding stations, and interconnected supervision of breeders' activities in order to prevent fraud. and what the eu will be able to do much more effectively than the member states in the future is to monitor trade via the internet, because this is the biggest threat to endangered species.
it is essential that life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions from all fuels are limited and reduced and that the objectives of the strategy 2020 are met. but what did this debate reveal? a directive as such, which could be very good and beneficial, has become a directive, where the commission seems not to work in favour but rather against the effectiveness of this directive. this directive must take account of realistic values. and he must have realistic goals. the objectives of the climate package should not be undermined. the commission must come up with a very clear and realistic position which will certainly receive support in this parliament. but it must not lower standards for political gain and under pressure from various lobbyists. this directive is important not only for those of us who are concerned with the environment and its protection, but also for the generations that come after us. it is therefore our duty to insist that the commission submit a good directive.
like many of you, i travelled across the european union today to strasbourg, covering 900 kilometres of our roads. i have to say that it is clear that we have given a lot of support to the construction and completion of the road network through our funds. but this can't be the end for us. supporting the construction of the road network in the european union must be just one of the steps. this must be followed in particular by road safety, which is often subject to great pressure due to the enormous overload of the road network and of transport in general, whether private or provided by various service providers. there was talk of social dumping. yes, i too come from a country where people still earn significantly less and where employees working for other companies elsewhere in the european union have much worse conditions. these are things that the commission must also deal with.
demographic, socioeconomic challenges, but also environmental issues are very closely linked to this theme. they were already mentioned by my colleague patricia toia in her speech. the mediterranean research and innovation partnership has the potential to provide a bridge between research and innovation in the participating countries and to significantly strengthen the european union's science diplomacy with its southern neighbours in the long term. i am convinced that the r & i partnership can offer concrete solutions to common problems faced by the member states of the european union and the mediterranean partner countries, and can also play an important role in reducing the current fragmentation and duplication between national and european programmes in the mediterranean region. i therefore welcome, even if only in an indicative way, the financial commitments clearly declared by the member states of the european union and by the mediterranean partners. the partnership for research and innovation certainly represents a relevant and appropriate instrument to promote stable and long-term financial management and financial integration as well as scientific integration starting in the first half of 2017. the european commission should not continue to ignore the clearly stated long-term commitment of the participating countries to implement the proposed partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean and come forward with a legislative proposal for an initiative under article 185 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in order to start implementing the cooperation as soon as possible.
my dear officer! i appreciate this excellent initiative because it is a very good way of raising awareness of the importance of euro-mediterranean economic and strategic relations. these could be boosted by research and development under the barcelona decision of two years ago. as a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i believe this idea is important because it could stabilise the economic and political situation in the region. we do not need to explain why this is important to us, because the internal situation of our mediterranean neighbours is decisive for the security situation in the region in order to ensure peace in the region. last but not least, curbing the flow of illegal migration that is choking the mediterranean countries of the european union is a task that is impossible without the rise of the source countries. and finally, i feel that the european union must act immediately, because if we are not careful, what could happen is what has happened in much of africa today, that this region will fall under the jurisdiction of far eastern interests.
250 million europeans use the internet every day, but there are still millions of european citizens who have never used the internet. i therefore see the creation of a digital single market as an opportunity that can make a significant contribution not only to improving employment but also to improving the skills of europeans. the creation of a digital market requires focusing on: 1. better access to the internet; 2. the expansion of electronic commerce; 3. the accessibility of electronic services. the development of high-speed networks today has the same revolutionary impact as the development of electricity and transport networks a century ago. the union should also ensure two objectives under the digital agenda: broadband coverage of 30 mbit/s by 2020 and provision of 50% of households with broadband connections above 100 mbit/s by 2020. the digital economy is growing at up to 12% per year and is growing seven times faster than other sectors of the economy. for these reasons, i consider the creation of a digital single market to be a key priority in our common european market.
thank you for the word. i regret to report that in my country, slovakia, in the last two years, there has been a radical and unjustified reduction in state support for minority cultures. not only is the amount uncertain from year to year, but more recently the government has been very arbitrary in its decision on how to allocate the money, often ignoring successful projects and ignoring the proportions among individual minorities. in many european countries, the way and amount of support for minority cultures is guaranteed by law. for example, it is defined as a fixed percentage of the current state budget or of the gross national product. the distribution of the funds is left to the parties themselves. this could be the solution within the whole european union, because it would greatly improve the relationship between the majority and the minority, and minority ngos and cultural institutions would not be subject to financial blackmail and could not be easily used as a political tool. i think it is time for an eu recommendation to be made to the member states to deal with this issue in this way. thank you for listening.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the six-pack has been in force since december 2011, i.e. three years in all. the six-pack was introduced to support the stability and growth pact because nobody took it seriously. so let's look at the results. in the three years that the six-pack has been in existence and in force, debt has risen from 110% to 135% of gdp in italy, from 70% to 95% in spain, and from 80% to 95% in france. these countries don't take the six-pack seriously. let us take france as an example. in 2010, france said: "in 2012, we will maintain the 3% deficit limit". then, in 2012, france said: "we will keep it in 2015". in 2014, it was postponed to 2017. and there are no sanctions! the french finance minister, mr sapin, said: 'the commission has no right to reject our budget. the french parliament alone has sovereignty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a joke!
in writing according to the information available and current trends, 2-pack and 6-pack appear to be marketing names for a non-existent strategy. how else can one view inconsistent compliance with the rules, as is the case in france today? if the european commission wants citizens of the european union's member states to have confidence in the european union's economic governance project, then it must first demand that the rules it has set be respected, and impose tough sanctions on any state that breaks them, regardless of its political influence or geographical importance. in addition, the european commission should also focus on considering the rules for member states' budgets, which often make pro-growth measures and thus real growth of economies or improvement of the social situation of the population impossible. last but not least, it is essential to introduce real measures against tax evasion and restrictions on tax havens, both within and outside the european union. such measures could provide the necessary funds for the budgets of the member states and at the same time be a moral satisfaction for the inhabitants.
written the rules of the stability and growth pact should be accepted by all eu member states and the eu should ensure that the same rules apply and are respected by both small and large eu states. i do not think that the six pack and the two pack require revision, as some of the provisions have not been in force long enough for us to be able to assess their effects.
‒ the ombudsman's office is of great importance as it contributes to ensuring high standards and transparency in the functioning of the eu institutions. for example, it has recently made a modest release of information regarding the upcoming eu-us trade and investment agreement, which is fraught with many shortcomings and poses certain risks to the internal market and eu citizens. there is no doubt that work on consolidating the application of the rule of law and the democratic functioning of the union must continue to be deepened. i believe that today's election is a step in that direction.
in writing, ms o'reilly is a competent candidate and therefore i had no reason not to support her candidacy. but if we were to vote on whether the european union needs an ombudsman or not, i would be in favour of abolishing the office. i am convinced of this and the incorporation of the european ombudsman's office into the structure of the european parliament confirms this view that, within the division of powers, scrutiny of the european institutions should be exercised by meps. after all, in many ways we do this when we approve their budgets, annual reports, interpellations, or organise public hearings and exchanges of views with representatives of the commission and the european agencies on the premises of the committees concerned. citizens simply turn to their mps with their petitions and expect them to deal with them personally, rather than forwarding them to an unknown high official.
in writing ‒ in this case, it is a clear and predictable regulatory framework, where the commission has decided to replace outdated legislation in the field in question. this amendment will result in the repeal of directive 93/5/eec on the assistance to the commission and cooperation between member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs. no objections were raised by meps to this proposal from the european commission.
in writing ‒ the functioning of the scientific committee for food was ensured by council directive 93/5/eec. since the tasks of this scientific committee have already been transferred to the european food safety authority, known as efsa, under the legislation in force, and since the latter has also become the body responsible for promoting scientific cooperation with the member states and the competent national authorities, i voted for the repeal of the obsolete directive 93/5/eec.
‒ international trade in wildlife is a major threat to the survival and development of animal and plant species worldwide. cites provides protection for over 35 000 species by conservation status, making a significant contribution to the control of illegal international trade in this area. the original cites convention allowed only states to become members, but it is time for the status of the european union, which currently only acts as an observer, to change, especially since accession to cites will not affect the rights and obligations of the member states, as the european union will only vote on those issues that relate to the acquis and individual member states will continue to vote on all other matters.
‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is a major international instrument for the protection of 35 000 species of endangered species of fauna and flora. since the entry into force of the convention, all eu member states have become parties to it, but the european union has only had observer status. i voted in favour of the eu's accession to the convention because i consider it to be the logical outcome of the eu's efforts in the field of environmental protection, which is within its competence. accession will also make it possible to adopt a common position on matters arising from the convention and to promote a common position in negotiations during the conferences of the parties.
in writing, ‒ the kingdom of morocco has undoubtedly the capability and the necessary know-how in the field of space technologies and other applications. it is therefore not surprising that it wants to develop the use of satellite navigation on its territory as well as in the surrounding regions of the western mediterranean and western africa, with a focus on applications specific to these regions. the kingdom of morocco, as a country participating in the european neighbourhood policy, is entitled and has the right to cooperate and participate in the new horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation. in addition, a treaty on scientific and technical cooperation between the european union and the kingdom of morocco has been concluded. this legal basis provides the kingdom of morocco with a good potential to contribute to gnss research.
in writing ‒ the agreement in its current form expired on 7 november 2014. the substance of the new agreement will be the same as that of the current agreement. the renewal of the contract will allow the european union and ukraine to improve and intensify their mutual cooperation in the field of science and technology, where both parties share common interests. in the future, there should also be an exchange of specific knowledge and know-how for the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens. however, it is necessary to increase the european commission's oversight of all activities to be carried out under this agreement.
in writing ‒ i agree with the proposal because i support the removal of barriers and obstacles between countries, including in the area of cooperation on science and technology. the agreement concluded so far has been beneficial to both parties and its renewal will allow both parties to continue to benefit from mutual scientific cooperation.
in writing, the agreement on the european economic area brings together the member states of the european union and the three efta members iceland, liechtenstein and norway in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of european union law covering all four fundamental freedoms the free movement of persons, services, goods and capital across all eea members. in addition, the agreement in question also covers cooperation in important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection and, last but not least, culture. the agreement guarantees equal rights and obligations without discrimination for all economic operators and citizens within the internal market. it is important that an agreement on the participation of croatia in the eea and a protocol thereto be concluded and that account be taken of croatia's accession to the european union.
‒ i support the proposal because removing the barriers between the republic of croatia and the european economic area will increase prosperity and help the economies of both parties concerned. it is a pity that, despite croatia being a member of the eu since 1 july 2013, the commission and the council are only now coming up with this initiative.
in writing ‒ the main objective is to allow france to apply the exemption or reduction of the dock dues to certain products produced locally in the outermost regions. the purpose of these tax differentials is to offset the disadvantages for the outermost regions, which have to cope with the increased production costs and the associated high price of these products. if the measures in question are not taken, these products will be less competitive than those produced elsewhere. the proposal sets out a clear and precise legal framework for maritime taxation from 1 january 2015 to december 2020.
‒ i did not support the proposal because it is a unilateral tax exemption that damages the market. instead of these exemptions, a much more efficient solution would be to reduce the rate of this tax flat-out. all market players should be on an equal footing.
‒ the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers in the member states of the european union most affected by the economic and financial crisis and by major structural changes in the pattern of world trade. the european commission has adopted a proposal to mobilise the egf in favour of italy, specifically for the staff of whirpool europe s.r.l., and it concerns an amount of eur 1 890 000 and covers a total of 608 beneficiaries. as part of its new business plan, whirpool closed the spini di gardolo plant in italy in order to better cope with the market situation and reduce its financial losses.
in writing ‒ i do not agree with the proposal as i believe it is a very ineffective solution to the problems raised. for example, the reasons given for the granting of this aid include the significant drop in consumption by italian households during the crisis. however, the funds provided by the european union to stimulate consumption by italian households are also funds that will reduce consumption by households in other countries of the european union.
in writing ‒ the fund was established to provide additional support for workers in the member states of the european union most affected by the economic and financial crisis and by major structural changes in the pattern of world trade. the european commission has adopted a proposal to mobilise the egf in favour of poland, namely for workers made redundant at the fiat auto poland s.a. production plant in tychy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. between 2009 and 2013, production decreased by an astronomical 56%.
in writing ‒ it is important that the financial contribution under the mobilisation for this undertaking is used for its intended purpose. financial resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund should not be seen as just aid but primarily as an investment in human capital in the region.
in writing ‒ i do not agree with the proposal because, like all other contributions from the european globalisation adjustment fund, it reinforces the very problem it is intended to tackle. the benefits granted to polish workers made redundant are financed by taxes paid by other eu companies and employees, which reduces their competitiveness accordingly.
in writing ‒ the fund was established to provide additional support for workers in the member states of the european union most affected by the economic and financial crisis and by major structural changes in the pattern of world trade. the european commission has adopted a proposal to mobilise the egf in favour of greece, specifically for the employees of oddysefs fokas s.a. it covers a total of 600 beneficiaries and 500 persons. the greek economy is in its 7th year of deep recession and unemployment has risen by 20% nationwide. the weak purchasing power of greek households led to a significant decline in the demand for the products of the company in question, which was forced to declare bankruptcy and lay off employees due to a number of factors.
‒ i do not support the proposal as i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund system is not right. paradoxically, the absurdity of the granting of these funds can also be found in the report itself, which sees the increase in the tax burden as one of the main causes of this problem. however, as this contribution is financed by taxes from other eu countries, the compensation of the high tax burden in greece is to be made at the expense of the increase in the tax burden in the rest of the european union.
in writing ‒ the fund was established to provide additional support for workers in the member states of the european union most affected by the economic and financial crisis and by major structural changes in the pattern of world trade. the european commission has adopted a proposal to mobilise the egf in favour of france. the commission notes that the restructuring plan for the bank of greece was submitted to the council on 13 december 2013. the redundancies in question were necessary due to the significant economic shock that international air transport had to overcome and which, according to all available estimates, has not yet ended.
in writing - i did not support the proposal because i am convinced that it is counterproductive. the proposal provides for a contribution of up to eur 25.94 million for 3 886 redundant persons. this puts a heavy burden on the eu budget, which is financed by taxes on the employees and companies of all the countries of the european union, and reduces the competitiveness of the rest of the eu.
in writing. i welcome the commission's work programme for 2015. as the commission itself recognises, this is the beginning of a new era and ambitious plans. i wish you every success in this and, as a member of the new parliament, look forward to closer cooperation between the institutions. in its work programme, the commission states that: citizens expect the eu to deliver justice, protection, fairness and the rule of law, and to take decisive action to combat all forms of discrimination. other as a representative of the hungarian community in slovakia, i see and feel every day what our voters want from us in the new period: a decent living and conditions worthy of preserving their culture and language. and the latter requires the same attention as creating decent jobs or breaking down bureaucratic loads. without ensuring and respecting the rights of eu citizens who are members of historic national minorities, who make up almost 10% of the union, we will not be able to restore trust in the eu. they have always been examples of european cooperation at local and regional level. i am convinced that the work programmes for the coming years must include ideas for the protection of historical, indigenous national minorities at european level.
in writing tax evasion and tax fraud cost the eu member states €1 trillion a year. this is 2000 euros for every eu citizen. these leakages contribute to sovereign debt, rising unemployment and increasing the risk of poverty. half the world's financial transactions flowed through tax havens before the crisis. this money is sorely lacking in solving the crisis and jobs. i therefore welcome the commission's commitment to present a proposal within six months for measures to combat tax evasion and tax fraud. i expect commission president juncker to deliver on his commitment made in july to prepare measures to tax profits in the country where they are generated.
in writing. creating a single plan for recovery, investment and growth for a common europe is not easy. the commission's work programme responds to the most pressing problems, such as unemployment, poverty, the fight against fraud, cutting red tape, cutting spending and the problem of migrants. it is not possible to do everything at once, but i believe that better cooperation between the individual commissioners will make the commission's work more efficient and that the promises made when it was elected will be gradually fulfilled. the work programme shall be targeted and shall focus on specific objectives. achieving them will also depend on better coordination of member states' policies. the heads of government cannot say one thing in their countries and do something else in a joint council meeting. only a common policy, a common action, has a chance of success. it is time to stop dividing europe into a richer north and a poorer south, a more developed west and a less developed east. a common europe is also about solidarity and reducing regional disparities, and the commission's work plan for 2015 can eliminate this.
i agree with commission president juncker that the working methods need to be changed. he certainly addressed this message to the council at least in the area of budgetary negotiations. thanks to the reporters and their teams, thanks to the professional conduct of the negotiations, we finally have a compromise on the table. the eu budget is one of the most important instruments for solidarity between member states. but it also represents clear collective savings. when countries coordinate their policies better, they will have more money in their accounts. we must discuss this more in the european parliament, with the ministers in the council and with the members of the national parliaments. only by working effectively can we meet the greatest challenges of the 21st century - climate change, energy security risks, tax evasion, economic globalisation or threats to our security.
the agreement on the future budget provides a realistic basis for the three main objectives of paying off outstanding debts, supporting member states' structural reforms and, above all, promoting job creation. it is important that the union invests more in competitiveness, growth and employment and that the budget structure is therefore also aligned with these objectives. the budget should always focus on the future - innovation, education, smes and, above all, young people. it is also important to direct the budget to union research and development programmes and horizon 2020. i therefore welcome the new agreement to increase the contribution to these programmes by eur 45 million. the positive aspect of this budget is also the inclusion of the first tranche of 8 billion to launch a new 315 billion investment plan. i believe that through private investment and credit guarantees, the union will gain access to new resources and ensure greater growth for our economy. still, we need to find a way to pay off the outstanding bills, which already exceed 23 billion. it is therefore important that the commission monitors the level of unpaid invoices and prepares a mitigating measure such as penalties. the new budget should therefore also bring improvements in the level of payments.
in writing. letter of amendment no 1 of the college of commissioners to the 2015 budget proposal, which proposes to reduce direct payments under the agricultural chapter of the eu budget for 2015, is unacceptable to europeans in their right mind. the measures taken against european farmers as a result of the russian embargo would be financed by the eu budget from the crisis fund. the application of the crisis fund, however, may be effected by deducting direct payments placed in the reserve under the legislation in force. this was objected to by the agriculture ministers of 21 member states at the council meeting. i estimate that this would result in a reduction of around eur 15 million per year for hungarian and slovak farmers. the commitment of the crisis fund before the beginning of the year also deprives the eu of any budgetary room for manoeuvre to respond to any crisis situation that may arise during the year and directly affect the agricultural sector. we must not forget that the russian import ban was not caused by agriculture, and i therefore find it particularly unfair that the measures introduced should be paid for by farmers.
written i strongly disagree with the draft eu budget presented. the european union budget already finances a large number of projects of dubious importance and its resources are used extremely inefficiently. in a situation where the vast majority of eu expenditure is used for redistribution, such as payments to farmers or cohesion funds, the quest to increase the eu budget is completely detached from reality. but for the eu budget to be truly reformed, a change in the eu's philosophy is needed. in fact, it is not public spending and central planning but lower taxation and a freer market that can restore economic growth and reduce unemployment. until the european union embraces this, the european union budget will continue to waste taxpayers' money massively and will continue to distort the market significantly.
since 2011, millions of civilians - innocent men, women, but also children and the elderly - have suffered as a result of the military conflict in syria. millions of syrians have been forced to leave their homes, with up to a third of them forced to flee across the border into neighboring countries. these people have lost their homes, their jobs, their regular income, and thus their access to the very essentials of survival - food and warm clothing. these people have lost their dignity. the world food programme, to which the european union contributes, plays a key role in helping the victims of this terrible war. however, at the beginning of december, part of this aid had to be suspended due to lack of funds, leaving a large proportion of syrian refugees in very difficult living conditions, further complicated by the harsh winter. the necessary funds for december and part of january were finally collected. but we must not allow these defenceless people to experience a sense of threat and, above all, insecurity again in the future. in such difficult situations, it is important not to give up.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is, you said you're offering financial help. ukraine is practically bankrupt and it will be a financial aid of several 10 billion euros. are you in favour of the european union rescuing ukraine as it rescued greece? yes, not yet, but it has been pumped a lot of money, 140 billion euros, to greece. you want to do the same thing to ukraine?
you have a tough debate in the coming days, especially in two areas. on the security front, it will be the situation in ukraine, which, despite our enormous enthusiasm and our rapid accession to the association agreement, has not improved in any way, on the contrary, it will cost the taxpayers of the european union tens, perhaps hundreds of millions of euros, which we so urgently need for us, for our economy. the second theme is the worsening social situation at home, in the european union. in countries like mine, the average wage is still very low. countries like mine still have relatively high unemployment rates compared to the european union average. these are the topics that must be a challenge for you - for you as the new commission, but also for the summit meeting. i hope that you will also use this christmas eve to help, in particular, the citizens of the member states of the european union who are in urgent need of very quick solutions.
in writing following the granting of autonomous trade preferences by the european union to moldova in january 2008, and after political and economic relations between the european union and moldova have intensified significantly in recent years, an association agreement was also concluded. the agreement in question was signed on 27 june 2014 and has been implemented since 1 september 2014, but it is precisely in view of the intensification of economic and political relations that a politically motivated ban on imports of agricultural products from moldova has been imposed by the russian federation, with agriculture representing 40% of the moldovan economy. the moldovan authorities have turned to the european union with confidence for help and support in this difficult situation. it is our duty to mitigate the economic consequences of the ban on the import of goods from the russian federation.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution because it is important that the eu shows a degree of solidarity and appreciates the efforts of the republic of moldova to join a common europe. the sanctions imposed by russia and the ban on imports of agricultural products from moldova have a significant impact on the entire economy of moldova, as agricultural production accounts for up to 40% of its economy. the introduction of three new duty-free tariff quotas for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums will not jeopardise the eu budget and will, moreover, cover the shortfall in the cultivation of these agricultural products in some eu member states. in the current situation in ukraine, as well as in other former soviet states which are seeking to join the eu and are threatened with further sanctions by russia, we must clearly show our support for these states and adopt such resolutions as quickly as possible, which will also have retroactive effect.
in writing i welcome the next step towards moldova's accession to the european union. i believe that she deserves the chance to be part of a unique european project and be the next success story of european integration.
in writing negotiations and trade agreements with third countries are also part of the european union's policies, and it is precisely trade agreements that the european union must approach with sensitivity and political correctness. this is precisely the situation that has arisen in relation to the trade agreement concluded between the european union and colombia/peru and the subsequent accession of ecuador to that trade agreement. in view of the possible unnecessary disruption of trade in the period until the provisional application of this fta, the european commission has proposed a regulation that would apply from 1 january 2015 and end no later than 31 december 2016, thus giving us sufficient time to apply all internal procedures in the european union and also in ecuador. the issue remains of delegating powers to the european commission, but such agreements should be supported by the european parliament, in agreement with the council of ministers.
in writing the multiannual financial framework is, among other things, an important instrument for payments for the various policies of the european union. the european commission, as well as the european parliament, have on many occasions called on the member states of the european union to make efficient use of the resources allocated to them, whether under individual funds or common policies. it is unprecedented that at the end of 2013 the amount of outstanding payment applications in the cohesion policy area alone was eur 23,4 billion. this situation is totally unacceptable and the european union and its institutions are obliged to take urgent measures in order not to jeopardise the implementation of the policies and programmes of the european union and at the same time to limit the demands for payment of default interest which unduly increase the economic risk and vulnerability of the beneficiaries of the european union budget.
the european union solidarity fund is a major instrument, the very name of which speaks volumes about the nature of its mission. in the past, the slovak republic also received significant assistance in the event of a natural disaster in the high tatras. these funds have helped to repair the damage done to our mountains. i will therefore always support proposals that will lead to this fund being used to help the member states of the european union to repair the damage caused by natural disasters, as we are doing now in relation to italy, greece, slovenia and croatia. i believe that our joint funding will help the people of these countries in particular.
in writing the amending budget is important because of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund under point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement in order to effectively help to deal with the consequences of natural disasters in italy, greece, slovenia and croatia. it is necessary to support this budgetary adjustment and thus to free up resources for the member states concerned. mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria)
the european union solidarity fund is a major instrument, the very name of which speaks volumes about the nature of its mission. in the past, the slovak republic also received significant assistance in the event of a natural disaster in the high tatras. these funds have helped to repair the damage done to our mountains. i will therefore always support proposals that will lead to this fund being used to help the member states of the european union and serbia to repair the damage caused by natural disasters, as we are doing now in relation to serbia, croatia and bulgaria. i believe that our joint funding will help the people of these countries in particular.
in writing the amending budget is important because of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund under point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement in order to effectively help to repair the consequences of natural disasters in bulgaria, serbia and croatia. it is necessary to support this budgetary adjustment, thereby freeing up resources for the member states concerned. regulation (ec, euratom) no 1150/2000 implementing decision 2007/436/ec, euratom on the system of the european communities' own resources is hereby amended as follows:
in writing on the one hand, there is the criticism that the european union is not able to pay its commitments under the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020. on the other hand, it is also essential that the rules are set correctly in relation to the member states' contributions to the budget of the european union. although the conciliation committee did not reach an agreement and although the high amounts of vat and gni own resources adjustments in 2014 may represent a high financial burden for individual member states, it is important that we are able to set up and operate this system effectively in the future.
in the past, the european parliament has always strongly defended the provisions of the new solidarity fund regulation in the relevant negotiations with the council, recognising the need for member states to receive financial support in order to respond to natural disasters more quickly than would be possible under the normal procedure. i therefore support the inclusion in the budget of up to eur 50 million for this purpose, which will allow the member state to receive an advance of up to 10% of the estimated financial contribution. the european union solidarity fund contributes to sending a clear political signal of solidarity and provides real assistance to the affected citizens and regions.
the european union solidarity fund is an important instrument of the european union for the recovery of victims of major natural disasters. the financial assistance constitutes a concrete expression of solidarity of the union and its citizens with the affected regions, where the damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion or 0,6% of the country's gross national income. in view of the unfortunate experience of previous years with delays in the payment of aid, i voted in favour of the adoption of a decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund under the general budget of the european union for the coming financial year 2015, with a view to providing the possibility to make advances of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations. this measure will make it possible to pay out financial support to the disaster-stricken region more quickly and flexibly next year.
in writing i am against the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument because it leads to higher eu spending. the structural funds programmes already receive an excessive amount of money and, as the european court of auditors noted in its report, the main criterion for their use is the very minute amount of funding. in view of this fact, and in view of the chronic inefficiency of the structural funds, i consider that a further increase in the funds is unjustified.
in writing the challenging negotiations of the european parliament and the council of 8 december 2014, which preceded the draft package, created room for a very fragile compromise. the adoption of a joint statement on the payment plan is therefore inevitable, as there are legitimate concerns that the level of payment appropriations will not be sufficient, thus creating a recurring effect of an increase in outstanding accounts. however, in this context, i support the joint commitment of the european parliament, the council and the european commission, as set out in the joint statement on the payment plan, to reduce the level of the accounts in question. it is regrettable that the council has again been unwilling to supplement its political declarations with sufficient budgetary resources to promote employment and growth, and is concerned in this context only with horizontal spending cuts. it is essential to create resources for pro-growth policies of the european union which will lead to an improvement in the social situation of the population of the member states.
in writing this year's negotiations on the eu budget were difficult, given the council's reluctance to commit to replenishing funding for political priorities that it has announced in the past. addressing the shortfall by means of an agreement on a detailed payment plan can only be considered a temporary satisfactory solution in view of the overall circumstances and the urgent need to adopt the budget by the end of 2014. i personally see the priority in securing sufficient budgetary resources to cover the most urgent invoices for contractors working directly on eu-funded projects in the regions of the member states. the effective functioning and credibility of cohesion policy must not be jeopardised by delays or even non-payment of bills by the eu. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection. in conclusion, i would like to express my satisfaction that sufficient funds have been allocated to the erasmus education programme and also to science, research and innovation.
in writing i did not support the eu budget for next year because i have fundamental concerns about its current form. the european union's budget for next year will increase, despite the fact that this year's budget already contains a number of expenditures that would be desirable to cut significantly or eliminate altogether. to increase the budget in such a situation and in a situation where the european union's economy is severely weakened is extremely irresponsible.
in writing. - classification of serious infringements in road transport i voted against the ep report on the draft commission regulation. i voted in favour of the new member states' view that the ep's formal position against the european commission's draft regulation would be detrimental to carriers in the new member states. the so-called 'old' member states invoke the 'social dumping' which is commonplace at the time, alleging that the 'new' member states enjoy an unfair advantage in terms of lower wage levels, thus making it impossible for carriers from the old member states to gain a foothold on the market. this is a classic example of the tension between the old and new member states, which has unfortunately always been won by the old member states, mainly because the new member states have not been able to act together. but today's close result suggests that these member states are beginning to wake up and find common ground. it is becoming clear that the interests of the old member states are not always the same as those of the new ones, and that these common interests, which are different from those of the others, can only be achieved by joint efforts and concerted action. i hope that during this election period we will also be able to set a positive example for our electorate and succeed in defending the interests of the new member states while protecting european integrity.
in writing the objective of regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 was to complete the internal market in road transport, characterised by fair conditions of competition. this requires the uniform application of the common rules for the authorisation of the occupation of road haulage or passenger transport operator. these common rules are intended to contribute to the attainment of a higher level of professional qualification of road transport operators, to the rationalisation of the market and to the improvement of the quality of services in the interests of road transport operators, their customers and road safety. however, the proposed regulation of the european commission is not compatible with the objective and content of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 21 october 2009.
in writing the motion for a resolution tabled called for the commission's proposal to be withdrawn. i voted against its adoption because if it were approved, the commission would have to develop a new alternative, which would not only block the whole process for a longer period, but would also probably introduce into european legislation such offences by carriers that would reduce the competitiveness of companies not only from slovakia but from all of central and eastern europe. for slovak carriers, such measures would mean an increase in costs and lead to redundancies, perhaps even to bankruptcy. in the long term, efforts are needed to ensure that slovakia can establish itself on the european single market, in particular through the high quality of its products and services. but until that happens, we must not let administrative hurdles take away the often only advantage - the lower cost of labour that comes from lower living costs.
in writing the revised fuel quality directive requires suppliers to submit a report on greenhouse gas emissions every year. by 31 december 2020, the greenhouse gas intensity reduction target is set at at least 6% in each member state. in its impact assessment, the european commission considered a range of options beyond the basic reporting approach based on average standard values of greenhouse gas emissions by fuel type. however, the breakdown of fuels from unconventional sources has not taken into account the latest developments in infrastructure and the oil market, and it is therefore important that the european commission further examine the method used to calculate the level of emissions and take into account the projected increase in the use of fuels with high greenhouse gas intensity and fuels derived from new raw materials.
the slovak government, through the permanent representation of the slovak republic to the eu, asked slovak meps to vote against the draft directive on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. this proposal improves the conditions for diversification of fuel sources by facilitating the entry of fuels from non-conventional sources into the european market. it represents a compromise agreed by both the processors of russia's lower co2 oil and the states where higher co2 oil is being extracted or is being prepared to be extracted. nevertheless, the slovak government has pushed for the rejection of this compromise. this would strengthen the position of the so-called 'old' eu member states' refineries in the further negotiations. the result would be a new proposal that would further weaken the position of the only slovak fuel producer on the european market. that is why i voted against the environment committee's proposal and i am glad that it was rejected.
in writing article 290 tfeu provides that delegated acts are to supplement or amend certain elements or to lay down uniform conditions for the implementation of the provisions laid down in legislative acts. article 101 of directive 2009/138/ec provides that, in the case of insurance and reinsurance, all quantifiable risks to which insurance or reinsurance undertakings are exposed are to be taken into account and that the solvency capital requirement corresponds to the value at risk of the basic own funds of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking with a confidence level of 99,5% over a one-year horizon. the european commission has adopted a regulation involving the granting of powers which in several significant cases significantly deviate from the submitted technical recommendations, leading to significantly lower calibrations of risk factors.
the treaty of lisbon laid the foundations for the development of the european union's security policy, in which it participates jointly with the member states. it is based on the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights and solidarity and is subject to democratic oversight at european and national level. the security situation in europe has changed significantly in recent years, due to new conflicts and unrest in the european union's immediate neighbourhood, but also due to the rapid development of new technologies. the increasing radicalization is also leading to violence and terrorism. most of these aspects and security challenges are of a cross-border nature, exceeding the capacity of individual member states, and therefore require a common european approach. i therefore welcome the preparation of the internal security strategy for the next four years.
mr president, we voted on the recognition of the palestinian state. although i think that the two-state solution might be one of the solutions, i had to vote against this resolution for the following reasons: first of all, supporting this resolution is a violation of the oslo ii accord of 1995, article 16.7, stressing that both sides will do nothing to change the status of the palestinian authorities pending the outcome of the permanent status negotiations. even the eu signed this agreement as a witness, so it seems we can question this signature now. furthermore, the recognition of the palestinian state with its current government might seem to be a de facto recognition of the terrorist organisation hamas, which is officially in government at the moment even though today i received an intriguing press release stating that the eu general court is removing hamas from the list of terrorist organisations on procedural grounds. this is intriguing after 13 years. besides this, although i do recognise the rights of the palestinians, recognition today will be an extra barrier to the peace negotiations. the statement calls it ‘in principle recognition’, but everyone will see it as a full recognition. for both israel and palestine, this would be a step back.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote on the recognition of the state of palestine because i do not think the timing of the resolution is right. as regards the content of the resolution, i am in favour of the two-state model, as the union has repeatedly confirmed. the eu supports the 1967 borders solution, whereby a secure state of israel and an independent, democratic, territorial coherent and viable state of palestine coexist in peace and security, based on the right to self-determination and full respect for international law. i support the re-launch of direct peace negotiations between israelis and palestinians, which requires a climate of trust and serious steps on both sides. however, i am convinced that the ep's resolution is not timely, because it is not fair in view of the upcoming israeli elections. i think any resolution of this type is only fortunate to be adopted when neither side is under pressure to campaign, because it can negatively influence, distort the efforts and aspirations of the peace parties.
in writing the repeated attacks on the citizens of the state of israel by hamas and other militant groups and the continuing escalation of violence, as well as the fact that any palestinian government gains its legitimacy by having to be supported by hamas and fatah, do not constitute sufficient guarantees for the recognition of the existence of the state. there is no doubt that the region is in dire need of a solution and the european union has repeatedly recognised the palestinians' right to self-determination. but we would need much more time to make an objective assessment and a decision on the recognition of the new palestinian state.
in writing. my country recognized palestine in 1988. in this spirit, i welcome the european parliament's resolution. i think it is extremely important that we do not try to solve the situation in the middle east today by sweeping the problems under the carpet, by putting off embarrassing issues, but by showing a clear path that is acceptable to the peoples living there and by offering a helping hand to a peaceful settlement. all under the 1967 boundary treaty and international law. yes, we must recognise the state of palestine, but this recognition is conditional on its active and fruitful participation in the peace process. reconciliation is not a matter of a momentary decision but a process that both sides must work on, and in which the international community can provide a major contribution. enough of the bloodshed, the many victims. both sides have lost too much over the decades. i believe that an independent democratic state will help palestine to participate responsibly in the peace process.
the european union has no competence to recognise the existence of states. this competence is exclusively the responsibility of the eu member states. this has also been confirmed by the european commission. for this reason, i refused to take part in the vote on the motion for a resolution on the state of palestine. by adopting this resolution, the european parliament has made a political gesture that is at best unnecessary and at worst counterproductive. but it certainly does not help in finding a peaceful solution to the arab-israeli conflict.
written the steel industry is of vital importance to the european economy and the industry is currently suffering from a significant drop in demand, leading to continuous job losses and reduced competitiveness. the european union has a duty to promote industrial development policy in all member states and thus to protect jobs in the european union. therefore, the european union's objective in supporting the steel industry must be to remove obstacles and threats to its competitiveness and to respond flexibly to changing conditions on european and non-european markets. one of the main objectives must be to create safe and quality jobs. in order to achieve economic success, it is essential to involve employees in innovation and restructuring measures and to establish a platform with the participation of the social partners to provide advice on the steel action plan.
the steel industry is one of the traditional european sectors that has long contributed to europe's growth and prosperity. the steel industry currently directly employs some 350 000 workers and millions more in related industries. the steel industry faces many challenges in the current economic and geopolitical constellation. restructuring and possible mergers often appear to be necessary in order to maintain efficient operations, but they must be carried out in a socially responsible manner and taking into account the overall economic and social situation in the region concerned. i agree with the request that the commission monitor current developments in order to protect the industrial heritage and the relevant workforce and create the conditions for the recovery of the competitiveness of the european steel industry on world markets, which the eu has unfortunately been losing in recent years. strong global competition also needs to be taken into account when applying eu competition law.
in writing - i supported the resolution on the situation in the eu steel industry with an emphasis on the protection of workers and businesses. i'm watching the steel industry very closely. the steel giant uss in košice, where i live, has long been one of the largest employers in eastern slovakia. this company is still threatened with production cuts and layoffs. i therefore welcome the fact that we in the ep are looking at the situation of steel companies and at the possibilities for their competitiveness, stabilisation and development. in the future, we can expect significant changes in the steel industry through investments in research and innovation, resource efficiency, new technologies and expertise. therefore, member states need to better align education and training policies with labour market needs in order to provide specialised professionals in the steel industry. in addition, the commission should submit a report on the main social, economic and environmental problems of the eu steel industry as soon as possible, so that we can respond flexibly with initiatives to support the sector in the eu.
in writing according to the international organization for migration, more than 3,000 people died in the mediterranean sea during the first nine months of 2014. in addition, some reports say that some 500 migrants were killed after human traffickers attacked and sank a ship carrying migrants from egypt to the european union. the italian mare nostrum rescue and surveillance operation has rescued more than 150 000 migrants in 364 days, but the italian government is no longer able to finance the operation on its own and it is unclear today what the member states' contributions to the joint operation triton will be. it is therefore essential that the european union fairly shares responsibility and solidarity with the member states facing the highest number of refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. the mediterranean should not become a cemetery as pope francis warned us in his address to the european parliament in november. we must therefore take a responsible approach to the issue of migration in europe, and that is why i welcome the resolution that has just been adopted. thousands of people are reluctant to take small risks, and then, relying on luck to save themselves and their families, they arrive at the long-awaited land of the union. we need to get to the root of the problem. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's human rights policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's human rights policy. in the common migration policy, only human rights can be the guiding principle. it is to prevent criminal gangs from torturing, enslaving, and in many cases murdering people for profit. the eu needs a new, strong strategy, with all the member states on board, sharing the burden responsibly.
in writing - what is happening as a result of the conflict in syria, what happened near lampedusa, that in nine months in 2014 more than 3000 people died in the mediterranean, that around 500 migrants were murdered after apparently being attacked and deliberately sunk by human traffickers, i voted for the resolution. i consider the adoption of this resolution to be urgent and it is high time that we make every effort to save the lives of people in danger and to prevent further loss of life at sea. in addition to the tasks that await frontex, i expect measures to be taken to ensure a common european asylum system, and i also expect a review of the overall strategy of cooperation with third countries to tackle the root causes of migration. the situation in the mediterranean leaves no one indifferent, which is why i am pleased that tackling the issue of migrants is one of the commission's priorities for 2015.
mr president, the year 2014 should be seen as an unprecedented year in georgia’s advance towards the european union. signature of the association agreement has materialised, despite the volatile situation in the region and external pressures from russia. we should welcome above all, however, the strong consensus among georgian political parties and in the population of georgia on pursuing the european path. once such strong pro-european conviction has been demonstrated, it is our duty to support the country in its strategic orientation – even more so in the situation where the main external pressure comes from russia, which continues to occupy the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia. georgia’s biggest neighbour might be countering the efforts for reforms in the country, and with the recent developments in abkhazia we need to reassure georgia, really convincingly, that we stand by it. the association agreement is the first important step and visa liberalisation should, and i hope will, be the next one. we should make sure that no obstacles stand in georgia’s way. yes, there is a substantial reform process ahead of georgia. it will be long, difficult and complicated. but it can definitely be facilitated through its commitment to european engagement, of course with our active support and participation.
ladies and gentlemen, the eu's approach to georgia is also strategically important for the stability of the region and a desirable partnership for us, which is why i support this association agreement. i would like to draw your attention to an important point which i believe has received little attention in the course of the negotiations. the situation of minorities in georgia may be a key issue for the future of the country. although there have been positive developments in the laws affecting minorities since georgia's independence, even today the relationship between the majority and the minority is characterised by mistrust and inconsistent minority policies. this may be decisive for the territorial unity of georgia, but the need for reconciliation is also shown from time to time. we need not look far in time or space at the dangers of underestimating minority issues. the case of ukraine clearly shows that it is in the interest of both parties to settle the coexistence in a way that is acceptable to both the majority and the minority.
, in writing.– jailing government's political opponents and kafka-like trials that we see in venezuela, shows that venezuelan government openly carries out tactics of an authoritarian regime. the case of leopoldo lopez is merely one instance of an unfair, illegal and politically motivated trial. the national court has not been impartial in his case. all but one of mr. lópez’s 65 defense witnesses was rejected whilst 108 of the government’s witnesses were admitted. so far, no evidence has been presented against the opposition leader. it is important that the european parliament to speak loudly in this case - condemn political persecution and the imprisonment of democratic opposition in venezuela and call for their release. i had a chance to meet leopoldo personally some time ago, so this is also my personal call. i support his views and encourage him in his political fight for democratic venezuela.
author - even though it's 2014, there is a state in the world that is not just present in the so-called modern slavery that we see, unfortunately, even in developed countries. in mauritania, there are real slaves people who are the property of other people, who have absolute power over them, who decide their life and death. i condemn this state of affairs unequivocally. tolerating such unacceptable practices, which have even been outlawed in this country for several years. i call on the government of mauritania to release the wrongfully detained abolitionist biram dah abeid, whose trial is reportedly starting today. if this activist is convicted, it will not only be a great injustice, but a blow to the thousands of slaves for whom he fought for freedom. i call on the mauritanian government to respect not only human rights but also its own laws. this situation cannot be tolerated and i can assure you that there is no economic interest that would force me to turn a blind eye to this inhuman act.
in writing - what ? i voted in favour of this resolution because the agreement creates better conditions and opportunities for the further development of european-georgian relations. i am very pleased that the agreement removes trade barriers between georgia and european countries, which can ultimately boost the georgian economy, which, like slovakia, has recently been hit by anti-russian sanctions. the slovak republic, my country of origin, is keen to continue its political support to georgia and is ready to assist it in bilateral negotiations, in particular with regard to the transfer of transformative experience in the field of building democratic institutions, establishing the rule of law, respecting human rights, promoting economic reforms and building civil society. i am convinced that the approval of the agreement will open up new prospects and opportunities for georgian companies to strengthen their mutual ties with the eu, and products produced in georgia will find a more direct route to european markets, making georgia a more attractive trading partner for european investors.
i welcome the successful vote on the association agreement between georgia and the european union. i support his pro-european efforts for the mutual benefit of the citizens of the eu and georgia.
in writing, georgia, along with armenia and azerbaijan, was included in the 2004 neighbourhood policy project, through which the eu seeks to assist them in their economic, political and democratic reforms. since that period, georgia has gone through significant stages of development and i am pleased that today we can say that georgia, with its 4.9 million people, with an estimated gdp growth of 6.3%, unemployment of 13.7% and gdp per capita of usd 6 100 in 2014, ranks among the most successful countries in the region in terms of the necessary reforms. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and georgia, as i believe that this agreement will help georgia to adopt the relevant laws and standards, which will become an appropriate instrument for strengthening the mutual ties between the eu and georgia.
