carbon capture and storage technology is expensive and complex. i'm not very fond of it myself, because it can also be seen as an excuse for continuing to exploit fossil fuels unabated. but the global energy and global warming trends are a clear signal that it is important to store the most important greenhouse gas instead of releasing it into the atmosphere. the simplest solution is to say "no" to coal. but that's not enough, that's not enough for at least two reasons: the first reason is that co2 is produced in other sectors, not just in energy, like steel, cement, chemical industries, and we can't just walk away from those industries. the second reason we are developing this technology is because we want to reduce global warming, and in the european union we can only influence our own energy mix. the international energy agency predicts that fossil fuels will make up 75% of the global energy mix by 2030. and i think the problem is the greens' view that, say, this technology would be used for some industrial sectors but not for energy. let's ask ourselves what we want. we want rational solutions and we want to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but we don't want to increase and artificially increase subsidies for renewable energy. the most powerful way to reduce fossil fuel emissions is to develop the right technology, and so while i am not advocating the use of fossil fuels, i join the call for more effective policies to use co2 capture and storage technology. it is a pity that we have not yet implemented any of the 12 pilot projects planned. and i support what the rapporteur said, i support what the commissioner said, and i think the decision of the european investment bank on lending policy is also a good one. and of course, storing co2 is not sustainable, so i think we should put a lot more emphasis on developing technologies to use co2. and to do that, we need to take advantage of the new horizon 2020 programme, which is much more focused on innovation than previous research programmes. but i also believe that all the money we raise under the ets should be spent on the development of sustainable technologies.
on behalf of the ppe group. today we are talking about elephants, rhinoceroses, tigers, turtles and corals. the citizens burdened by the crisis could accuse us of not dealing with serious matters. but this is a very serious subject. the eu has a long-standing commitment to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. this type of criminal trade is also strong in the european union, it is not a problem of third countries, and this is shown by the seizures under the cites convention. i looked at the 2012 analysis of 17 countries, and it described 799 seizures. the most seized products were for medical purposes, followed by ivory and live reptiles. the european union is one of the major transit destinations and a major market for such products. we must therefore strengthen the effectiveness of the european area by better implementing legislation and the european commission's recommendations. of course, recommendations are not as strong as common european legislation would be. i therefore expect the european commission to make efforts to ensure that member states' legislation in this area is coherent, and above all that penalties are equally stringent. because we don't want a particular country or a small group of countries with low penalties to be an opportunity for traffickers of criminal goods. i should also mention that i think we need to put more emphasis on the effective functioning of the existing institutions, because we have to take account of the difficult public financial situation in europe, and my political group does not support calls for the creation of new financial funds for this purpose. it is important that awareness of this problem is also high at international level. cites has been in force since 1975, and last year the united nations declared that wildlife crime is as serious as drug and human crime. the u.s. administration, for example, is taking the problem seriously. the european union must remain active at international level. it must be an active participant in international mechanisms, for which we have the know-how. and there is much we can do through the instrument of official development assistance. my political group supports the resolution. i hope that with the support of the public and the public at large, we can make a real difference in reducing this crime. and finally, let me say that there is no trade if there is no demand and consumption. and i think we have to put a lot of emphasis on awareness, because if there's no demand for crocodile leather handbags, if there's no demand for beautiful ivory souvenirs, and if there's no ivory piano keys, then there's no such store.
i would like to draw attention to a contribution by dutch public television. they say they're reporting on the average member of parliament, and the central character is a dutch member of parliament who belongs to 31 unconnected members. of course, these are by no means representative members. in his contribution, the member makes claims which i believe to be false and are simplified in a way that is misleading. it also mentions very specific abuses, such as the abuse of the parliamentary chauffeur service by mr van der stoep and his colleagues for private purposes. the member himself admits this in his contribution. i therefore call on the leadership of the european parliament to review the contribution in question, to investigate the abuses and to punish the members who have unintentionally and wrongly used the services of the european parliament. this is particularly important now that we are close to the european parliament elections. it is the reputation of all of us, it is the reputation of the european parliament.
can we all shop in the single european market? that, to me, is the key question when we talk about a consumer protection programme. in some cases, this is even poorly regulated at national level, partly because only 15% of consumers actually know that consumer protection network centres exist. and global chains can also be very problematic today, and so we really have to go against good and easy information for consumers and information that even those who wear glasses will see, because today a lot of older people and people with special needs have a very hard time adjusting to very little written information. the platforms that are on the internet, of course, are enabling a whole new era, enabling full information, but they just have to be consumer-friendly enough. but let us also recognize that our health depends to a large extent on how informed our consumers are.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the european union is planning to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles by almost 30% measured in g/km by 2020. the relevant legislation also provides for the introduction of more reliable test procedures for measuring co2 emissions. the fight for a better environment is the fight for better health, and i always welcome decisions in that direction.
in writing. − i welcome the proposal to improve the quality and efficiency of health safety. e-health can mean facilitating access to health services for people living in remote or sparsely populated areas. the european union is facing increasing demand for health services due to an ageing population, the impact of chronic diseases, the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals and, consequently, the growing expectations of citizens. for ehealth to function well and, above all, safely, legal certainty needs to be ensured. it is also necessary to establish a good technical framework and to this end to carry out technical standardisation, to achieve interoperability of european health systems and to introduce certification and authentication systems at eu level. the focus is on improving the quality of healthcare for eu citizens.
in writing. − the european union does not have a generally accepted definition of food fraud. i welcomed the proposal to reduce food fraud by requiring member states to cooperate more closely with europol, between themselves and with the competent authorities, and by requiring greater supervision of private control bodies which take over certain control tasks.
in writing. − the plastics industry is an important industry in the eu, employing over 1.5 million people. unfortunately, it also generates a huge amount of waste. according to ec data, this waste amounted to as much as 25 m tonnes in 2008. these are harmful to the environment, particularly the long-term decomposition of plastic and its deposition in the seas. i therefore support the ep's efforts to create an appropriate environment to encourage the reuse of plastics.
in writing. − i supported binding targets in european legislation for the collection, sorting and recycling of up to 80% of plastic waste. the lack of enforcement of european legislation so far has allowed plastic bags to continue to be treated irresponsibly and in an environmentally harmful way in europe. the waste management sector can provide increased turnover and job creation.
in writing. - we've come a long way to get this report. i am glad that the rapporteur, mr andrieu, has listened to the arguments and has taken account of the many amendments proposed, including the title. i strongly advocate more effective cooperation and better resource management in the individual territories. but at the same time, i am firmly against the introduction of new bureaucratic procedures and the reduction of resources devoted to food production. i am therefore pleased that we have before us a report which does not create confusion and new bureaucratic procedures. a report that encourages territorial cooperation and highlights the opportunities for cooperation and management offered by existing european initiatives such as leader or quality labels such as protection of geographical or national origin.
a tender at the lowest price also means a tunnel that has no information infrastructure and that we cannot hear the radio while in the tunnel. it also means the poor quality food that children can eat in schools when it's the lowest price and when it's not the quality. and i myself, as the ceo of a company with 200 employees, felt the hopes and disappointments of public procurement. disappointment, in particular, that a medium-sized enterprise could not access public contracts due to the high leverage requirements and the high realisation requirements. at the same time, the criterion was the lowest price. and yet today this renewed legislation is improving certain areas, allowing smes to have better access. and this is essential because it will also help people to keep jobs or create new jobs for those who are currently unemployed. but i also have doubts about whether we have made the legislation that is simplified. because it is this aspect, which is linked to sociological criteria, that can complicate these procedures, it can complicate them because there are no exact criteria here. it is a very good idea, it is very popular, and i would be very much in favour of it, but as i know what procurement procedures mean, this is where the problem can arise. and because of that, and because of the new legislation, which has a lot more upsides than downsides, i believe that more small and medium-sized businesses will have jobs and people will have jobs.
in writing. i support european legislation for the award of concessions to private operators, which will allow for more transparent and fair procedures. i'm sorry that people have asked for water to be drained and have succeeded. i am convinced that this is not good for citizens, but it is good for concessionaires, since this area of contracts will not have to be concluded in accordance with european law. we must demand that the authorities provide us with an adequate supply of safe, high-quality water at a reasonable price. in slovenia, the implementation task is entrusted to the municipalities and if they decide to award the concession to a private company, we as taxpayers must demand that the best bidder is selected. our money has to be spent optimally, the business has to go to the right companies. i am convinced that the concessions directive would help to achieve these objectives. the proposal for a directive did not in any way change drinking water standards, impose water privatisation or favour large companies. on the contrary, it preserved water as a public good and retained the responsibility for managing water resources for municipalities, allowed direct management or the award of concessions to public or private companies, and in the case of public-private partnerships, required transparent and fair procedures, opened up opportunities especially for smes and ensured a more efficient use of public money. unfortunately, these european water requirements will not apply.
on behalf of the ppe group. two hours ago, i received this sweet argument with the label pure and natural between 100% natural product and no additives. as a beekeeper and as a consumer and as a member of the european parliament, i ask how consumers can determine whether the honey labelled as such contains pollen from genetically modified plants. if pollen from such plants is legally defined as a constituent of honey, the consumer cannot find out. the court of justice of the european union has expressly ruled against such an approach. a genetically modified organism is not a primary product of nature. our job is not to determine the composition of honey with a political majority, but to support the consumer's right to be informed and to have a choice in the market. it would also support the efforts of thousands of european beekeepers who are striving to reach consumers with quality honey in a transparent way. for these reasons, i propose that we support the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which has supported the concept of an ingredient rather than the concept of a constituent part of honey, as far as flowering powders from genetically modified organisms are concerned. this was also supported by european beekeepers. i was at their convention before we decided. such a decision cannot in any way lead to a reduction in supply or to high costs for beekeepers in relation to the labelling of honey. the main part of the problem can be solved technically by introducing systematic registers of sites containing genetically modified organisms, which are already in place in several member states. honey produced outside these areas does not need testing. i am convinced that more and more environmentally conscious consumers are not interested in a political debate about the structure of honey, but in the exercise of their right to information and choice. many european beekeepers are therefore already voluntarily labelling their honey as 'gmo-free'. i urge you to support the committee's position, which clearly supports the concept of the ingredient.
question asked by raising the blue card. mr nicholson, i listened to you with interest and to your claim that industry should be supported, i add that we will not get far with industry unless we support the beekeepers, whose honey helps the industry to go on. i don't care if it's called an ingredient or a constituent or an ingredient or an ingredient part, i'm interested in how the consumer will know what they're buying when they buy honey. what's your answer to that?
mr bütikofer began by thanking the many people who contributed to this report, and i would like to thank him for a report which is really very comprehensive and which deals with many aspects of industrial policy. i too am concerned that the industrial base in europe has been shrinking for many years and therefore strongly support the 20% target highlighted in this report. but i agree with the rapporteur that sunday talks will not be enough. in pursuing this objective, we must think about the needs of industry, not about the political means required. companies will not expand their production and invest in new plants if we adopt policies with ever new and additional indicators. we're not going to strengthen industries with more complex legislation and more extensive regulation. i believe that what is needed at this moment are measures such as the completion of the internal market in electricity, gas and telecommunications, increased investment in research and development, then meeting the requirements of the european semester, creating a stable regulatory environment with less administrative burdens. the policy should define only the main objectives and leave the rest to the market. in doing so, we must respond to the major societal challenges that have been clearly identified so far, namely demography and population ageing, climate change and resource efficiency. finally, i would like to mention the crucial importance of education and training, because i believe that in this area we actually need reforms that are more responsive to the needs of the economy.
congratulations, indeed, to the reporter bütikofer. and let me say that i am extremely pleased to be working in our political group of the european people's party, because these are the issues that are, so to speak, written on our skin, with which we live. we live with industry, we live with business, with small and medium-sized businesses, and of course, worrying about what we're going to do tomorrow. and this policy, industrial policy, gives a lot of answers to what we're going to do tomorrow. it is also possible to keep more industry in europe because we have a culture of industry here, because we have a technological discipline here. it's hard to imagine what it means for all those who have moved industries, say, to china or india, what it means for the technological discipline that we have here in our own right. and what's holding us back, holding us back, is surely the big thing, that we're not human-adapted. so a lot of young people should have more courage to study engineering, to study information technology. we're going to need that if we're going to re-industrialize. in addition to the high energy prices, at least compared to america, those are still too high and stifle competitiveness. i am glad that within this report, an opportunity for food production is also seen. the connection between food and health and jobs and industry is extraordinary, because robotics, including in the field of food production, is an opportunity. so let's connect, metaphorically speaking, the glitch to the computer.
when voting on the 2015 calendar, you or the president referred to the judgment of the european court of justice. i just want to point out that it would not be good for us as legislators to follow different principles or to have double standards. with the honey directive, we have a clear ruling from the european court of justice in favour of consumers and their right to know when they buy honey whether or not it contains genetically modified pollen. so i am in favour of following the judgment of the european court of justice in this case too, which was clear and ... no, that is a point of order ... absolutely a point of order, because it is a question of avoiding the two criteria, as the environment committee, envi, has avoided, and i think that in this respect we should support the line of the court of justice and vote for amendment no 9d.
in writing. − the proposed regulation does not guarantee consumers the right to information and choice when honey contains flowering powder from genetically modified organisms (gmos). despite the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), which supported the concept of ingredients and consequently clear labelling when it comes to gmo flowering powders at the first reading, the opposite position prevailed in the crucial vote by a narrow majority of 26 votes (out of 766 meps). in the case of the identification of pollen as an ingredient, the labelling on the packaging would make it clear to the consumer whether pollen of genetically modified plants is present in the honey. it cannot now do so, as pollen is legally defined as an ingredient of honey and therefore information on the possible presence of a gmo in honey is not required on the packaging. the proposal was not an attempt to make a political decision on the ingredients of honey, but to support the right of consumers to be informed and to have a choice in the market. it would also support the efforts of thousands of european beekeepers who are striving to bring quality honey to consumers in a transparent way. nor would supporting envi's position in any way lead to a reduction in the supply of honey, nor to high costs for beekeepers in relation to the labelling of honey. so i regret that the majority did not vote for the consumer and beekeeper-friendly proposals i was campaigning for.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is very appropriate that we have this opportunity to discuss the positive developments in both serbia and kosovo in 2013. i should like, however, to begin by saying a few words more generally about the enlargement agenda for this semester. the country which holds the presidency – greece – has always been a strong advocate of eu enlargement. our intention over the coming months is to promote the improvement of the interconnection between the eu and enlargement countries in key sectors, an idea presented by the commission in 2013 in the enlargement package. the aim is to contribute to the european integration of enlargement countries in concrete terms and to have a positive impact on the lives of their citizens. i am aware of the strong support which this parliament has traditionally given to enlargement, and i very much appreciate the active engagement and constructive contribution of members to both enlargement policy as a whole and more specifically to the enlargement perspective of the western balkans. our overall enlargement policy, to which i know this parliament is fully committed, has been instrumental in these developments. i would like in particular to thank the rapporteurs ulrike lunacek and jelko kacin for their valuable contribution in highlighting both the successes and the challenges which remain for serbia and kosovo. no one can doubt that serbia and kosovo have both demonstrated a continuing commitment to sustained progress in normalising their relations. through a process of dialogue and negotiation, they have been able to deliver results which would have appeared impossible just a few years ago. i would particularly like to commend both prime ministers, mr thaçi and mr dačić, for their efforts and commitment to this process. i would also like to express our gratitude to high representative catherine ashton for her facilitation efforts, as well as to commissioner füle. we very much welcome the decision to open accession negotiations with serbia. both this and the ongoing negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo are clear evidence of the extent to which both parties are fully engaged in the process of normalising relations. in april 2013 a first agreement on principles governing the normalisation of relations was achieved. this was followed in may by an implementation plan. another milestone was successfully reached in november/december last year when local elections were organised in kosovo, including in the northern municipalities. the efficient work on the ground has meant that many old structures have been dismantled and integration into kosovo structures is well underway. both parties have also delivered on the domestic eu agenda. in a number of areas serbia has continued to prepare for the next important phase of its relations with the eu. the reform agenda – particularly the area of the rule of law – gained momentum throughout 2013, and some progress was made towards establishing a functioning market economy. furthermore, serbia has continued to align its legislation with eu legislation and has made a positive contribution to regional cooperation. the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia came into force on 1 september 2013, and the first stabilisation mechanism council took place in october. it is important that serbia makes further progress in the area of the rule of law, notably judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime, public administration reform and the independence of key institutions. further work is also needed on media freedom and the quality of the business environment. particular attention also needs to be paid to the rights and inclusion of vulnerable groups, particularly the roma, as well as to the effective implementation of legislation on the protection of minorities, the non-discriminatory treatment of national minorities throughout serbia, and tackling discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. kosovo has also delivered on important policy reforms, and the broad political consensus on kosovo’s european perspective has been instrumental in sustaining the momentum of the approximation process. kosovo now needs to focus on implementing the reforms in order to meet the obligations under the proposed saa. as part of the preparations for the general elections this year, the council has invited kosovo to reform its legal framework on elections, building on european international practices. kosovo also has to pay particular attention to tackling organised crime and corruption, continuing the judicial and public administration reform, ensuring the protection of fundamental rights and the rights of persons belonging to minorities, and addressing trade issues. increased efforts are also needed in the area of economic reform. kosovo has made some progress towards establishing a functioning market economy. significant reform and investment is now needed to enable it to cope in the long term with competitive pressure and market forces. it is clear that the results achieved in the dialogue process must be pursued and implemented by both parties with commitment and determination. i have little doubt that further issues will arise which will need to be addressed and that difficult questions will need to be solved. it is crucial to the smooth conduct of the process ahead that implementation continues and that both parties remain fully engaged in the process of normalising their relations. both should be able to continue on their respective european paths. neither should seek to block the other in this endeavour. both should be able to exercise fully their rights and fulfil their responsibilities. we stand ready to assist both of them as far as possible in continuing on this positive path.
member of the commission. − mr president, one hundred years ago a spark in the balkans ignited a war that engulfed europe in chaos and devastation. ever since then, our collective memory has too often associated the balkans with unrest and conflict. by contrast, in recent months the news from the balkans has been about renewed dialogue, increased intra-regional trade and the building of bridges. it is serbia’s and kosovo’s european aspirations that played a central role in their desire to engage in the normalisation of their relations. the ‘first agreement of principles governing normalisation’ has improved relations between serbia and kosovo and has already led to a number of important, positive developments on the ground, particularly in the north of kosovo. a key milestone was passed last autumn with the holding of local elections for the first time throughout kosovo. i therefore concur with both rapporteurs and commend the two prime ministers for their remarkable efforts towards normalisation in the past year. we look forward to these efforts continuing with equal determination in 2014 and also to the continuing engagement of the high representative and vice-president, cathy ashton, without which such progress could hardly have been achieved. i definitely share the rapporteurs’ conclusions that serbia and kosovo fully deserve to take the next step forward on their respective paths to the european union. following the decisions of the council last june on serbia and kosovo, i was particularly pleased when the council last month adopted the negotiating framework for serbia and allowed for the first intergovernmental conference, which will take place on 21 january. the european union has shown that it can inspire others to follow its own model of reconciliation among its peoples. i am confident that serbia and kosovo can inspire further positive change in those parts of the western balkans where progress is lagging behind. on serbia, let me thank the rapporteur, mr jelko kacin, for his report, which is well in line with the findings of our 16 october progress report. the european parliament will adopt this resolution at a most appropriate moment, just days before a new phase begins in the relations between the european union and serbia, with the first intergovernmental conference taking place, as i said, on 21 january. on kosovo, i am pleased to inform you that its european perspective is taking shape. i welcome the draft resolution on the european integration process and i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms ulrike lunacek, for her report. as confirmed in our progress report of 16 october, kosovo needs to continue its reforms so that it can meet its obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement. the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement are going very well. in december the council acknowledged our intention to conclude the negotiations in the course of 2014. we are committed to continue to work very closely with kosovo, the member states and parliament to ensure that the negotiations will be as efficient and productive as possible. it is also fundamentally important for kosovo to address priorities in the rule of law through the structured dialogue and to continue its good cooperation with the european union rule of law mission (eulex). since they started their integration process with us, both serbia and kosovo have advanced significantly in their internal reform process. their agreement reached in april is a landmark for the whole region. it is essential that both serbia and kosovo continue the dialogue and continue tackling new challenges and the reform process of their societies. it is important that, alongside them, we maintain the positive momentum of the last year.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in less than one weekʼs time, serbia will embark on a historic journey which should bring the largest country in the western balkans into the fold of the eu. the first eu-serbia intergovernmental conference will take place on 21 january. it marks a symbolic opening of the accession talks with serbia. serbia has ceased to maintain a hostile stance on the kosovo issue, with prime minister dačić stretching out a hand to his kosovo counterpart hashim thaçi. by signing the april agreement, serbia opened the way for a full normalisation of relations with kosovo. there is much more to be done, but the first step was crucial and by far the most difficult. further progress with regard to this issue will be closely followed through chapter 35 of the accession talks. i would like to take this opportunity to thank high representative catherine ashton for all the work she has done to make sure serbia and kosovo come to an agreement. she has played a crucial role. special thanks to commissioner füle as well, who kept up the pace of the integration process against all odds. the serbian government has shown a proactive attitude in the fight against systemic corruption in the country. my report cautiously welcomes these first steps in the effort to establish a genuine rule of law in the country. i want to reiterate that this is not about serbiaʼs formal membership of the eu. it is all about the journey towards brussels and the effective implementation of eu-related reforms. this will be at times a long, difficult and challenging process. i urge the serbian political elite to forge a strong consensus on the strategic issues related to the accession process and to reach out to civil society, whose contributions to the reform process and to its transparency are essential. the reform of the judiciary, which will be the topic of chapter 23, remains the core issue. in order to ensure smooth negotiations on this chapter, serbia will need to establish a track record on high-profile corruption cases. it needs to demonstrate that all of miloševićʼs secret service crimes have been cleared and resolved. the political background to the assassination of prime minster zoran djindjić must be resolved once and for all, as serbia cannot afford to have this shadow hanging over the credibility and stability of its institutions. other state-sponsored crimes also need to be solved. serbia has an underestimated human and economic potential which will at last be encouraged to develop. after decades of isolation, serbia has abandoned the self-defeating approach to challenges it has faced in the past. serbiaʼs success in the accession process will encourage its neighbouring countries to step up their reform efforts in their turn. serbia is taking up a transformative role: turning from a regional maverick into a leader in integration. i am certain that the eu will not be complete until the last country in the western balkans joins the union. i hope that by the end of the next term of this parliament we will be much closer to this goal.
this generation of serbian and kosovar politicians is certainly responsible for the fact that today we can talk freely about the trends in the western balkans. things would be even better if the members of the european union, those who have not yet recognized kosovo, did so as soon as possible, and simply accepted some of the realities of the world and the changes in it. i think it is also an opportunity for the greek presidency, which i have no doubt will be an excellent one, to establish genuine productive and well-intentioned contacts with neighbouring macedonia during this period and to try to open up the path of euro-atlantic integration for macedonia during this period. i said euro-atlantic on purpose, because i know the story of course with macedonia's membership in nato. the balkans are a whole and we must not forget bosnia and herzegovina and leave it behind.
for the first time, the european parliament has recognised with such a unanimous voice the great progress made by serbia and kosovo. the agreement on the normalisation of relations is proof that the union is a more important goal for both countries than populist and nationalist rhetoric. the opening of negotiations with serbia will open a new chapter that will require great efforts: the rule of law, the fight against corruption, the protection of human rights, freedom of the media - this will be the most difficult area. border security citizens of serbia must not violate the rules of visa-free travel. this will put all those who today enjoy the benefits of the visa-free regime at too great a risk. we must also do everything we can to bring kosovo into the visa-free regime as soon as possible. we in the european parliament are constantly promoting the european perspective of the western balkans. i hope that the greek presidency will also give a new impetus to enlargement ten years after the thessaloniki summit. this would be a success for all, for a europe that can only succeed if it is united.
in writing. we are witnessing a terrifying development, violence is escalating, a humanitarian catastrophe is unfolding before our eyes, violence is reaching the dimensions of civil war. according to the un, 10,000 people have already died, more than 100,000 have been forced to flee their homes, and are seeking refuge outside the country. as more and more people flee to these areas, there is a chronic shortage of basic foodstuffs and essential medicines. pollution and the lack of clean water have put people at risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases. we can't let history repeat itself. ashton assured us that the eu was working and promised financial assistance. but that's not enough. after indicating that a ceasefire could be reached yesterday, the two sides again denied this information this afternoon. in letters from the nuba mountains, tom cruise is calling for the international community to immediately establish a no-fly zone to stop the killing. the delivery of aid and food has come to a complete standstill due to the widespread conflict. it is urgently necessary to open a corridor for humanitarian organisations. aircraft are unable to land due to the conflict, and the international community should consider airborne delivery, and if it is too dangerous, consider using drones for this purpose. i hope that the international community will step up and that the eu foreign ministers will act decisively on our resolution at their meeting in brussels on monday.
in writing. − the reindustrialisation of europe is important to overcome the economic crisis, to increase the number of jobs in this sector and to increase the competitiveness of the european economy. i welcome the convergence of member states' policies on investing in the development of new and better use of existing technologies, on the efficient use of public funds and on the increase of private sector funds for research and innovation activities and on the increase of the use of renewable energy sources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution, which calls on the commission not to propose to authorise any new gmo variety and not to renew old ones until the risk assessment methods have been significantly improved. i think the correct way for a healthier europe is to follow the path of many eu member states which banned gmos, shifting to a gmo-free agriculture for a healthier food chain.
in writing. - in the last five years, the number of homeless people has increased in more than half of the member states, including, unfortunately, in my country, slovenia. street homelessness may be the most visible form of homelessness, but it is not the only one. those without a true home also freeze to death in unheated, poorly insulated dwellings during the winter. even those who die in overheated apartments in the summer. even those who are huddled like sardines in overcrowded apartments because the rents are too high to afford larger ones. there's always time and money to solve banking problems, but not for the weakest among us. the third is always a good time, as we say in our house. i hope that's true. this is the third initiative in this parliament's mandate to tackle homelessness more effectively and decisively.
in writing. - the internal market in electricity and gas is deepening in the eu. under the third liberalisation package, it is due to come into effect in the middle of this year. the european commission must have at its disposal the relevant data to enable it to analyse market developments and to prepare measures for the harmonious development of the internal market. that's why i support the report. the further development of the internal market in electricity and gas must ensure greater transparency, more competitive prices, a better balance between supply and demand, while ensuring sufficiency and reliability. i also expect that the adoption of this regulation will help to eliminate the weaknesses of the current system as soon as possible.
in writing. - the european steel industry is at risk, and i support the focus of european policy on measures that will enable the eu to maintain its leadership in sustainable production. the general principle behind policy-making is simple: we must give equal attention to job creation and competitiveness as we do to the environment. legislation that sets high environmental standards while allowing for a number of exemptions, subsidies and aids is bad. this is a transfer of money from one pocket to another, creating a new administrative burden, and its effectiveness is questionable. this is the case, for example, of the effects of the climate and energy package on the european electricity system, which is becoming black-green (coal and renewables), even though the objective was quite different. the solution is balance and proportionality. we remain the leader in environmental legislation, but with standards only a step or two ahead of the competition. so much so that european industry will be motivated and rewarded for improving. i believe that policy measures should be directed primarily at creating an efficient environment for the operation of industry (logistics, transport, financial system, energy), promoting research and development, creating a functioning internal energy market with competitive prices, promoting recycling, and achieving reciprocity in relation to third countries.
question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask mr eickhout how he thinks the internal market can work if certain energy sources are heavily subsidised and others are not. in such a case, the market cannot function. and the second question. you are committed to a strong renewable energy target, led by the european union. i wonder what powers he thinks he has, and what powers we members of the european parliament have, to be able to define these objectives better than the members of the national parliaments of the individual member states.
question asked by raising the blue card. you said we have to be decisive in our policies, but you also said that those of us who talk about one goal, who advocate for the policy, nothing would happen. i think those of you who advocate the three-goal policy are advocating that the policy we have now is not changing. so i ask you, do you know what's happening in the energy sector, that our energy mix is green and black, which means we have more renewables and more coal. is this what we wanted with the energy-climate package?
i'm all for action on climate change and for the energy market, but something's wrong now. we have energy prices, for example, that are several times higher than anywhere else in the world, and they are actually indirectly politically determined. investments in the energy system are again politically determined through various subsidies. there's more and more coal in our energy mix. we didn't want this to happen, so we have to act and change something. i'm for the fact that our system is much simpler, that we're more focused, more focused on the problem. that's why i'm advocating for one goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. at the same time, i believe that those sectors that are included in the ets, which is a market mechanism, cannot also receive subsidies at the same time, because that is, of course, how they distort the carbon price. as for the envi and itre reports, i think it is inconsistent that they introduce an expensive system that threatens competition. the commission itself has already stated that the 40% target is ambitious. it also proposed a 27% target for renewable energy sources and said this was in line with the 25% energy efficiency target. the envi committee and itre proposed targets of 40% for co2, for energy efficiency and 30% for renewable energy sources. this is not at all consistent, and if we were to achieve the renewable energy and energy efficiency targets, of course, that would mean a lot more in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
congratulations to colleague bach on his report. it's really balanced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are able to operate in the community. the main good thing about passenger rights is that we will be able to deal more easily with the elderly or those with reduced mobility, because today one third of europeans are over 65 years old, and this must also be taken into account in the case of complications. it is also necessary to take into account, and this is also taken into account in this report, that especially smaller companies are very sensitive also, as in slovenia, where we have only one company and of course it would be very sensitive to high demands.
what is happening in bulgaria, where thousands of refugees are fleeing, is horrifying. once again, we are witnessing tragic stories and human tragedies on the union's external borders. i agree that our european solidarity is being tested. we must heed the call for help from bulgaria and all the countries of the union. we cannot allow people seeking and in need of international protection to be rejected at the borders. i am concerned about bulgaria's decision to build a temporary fence on the border with turkey: will europe really look like a fortress? i don't want to do that. it is important that bulgaria, faced with serious challenges, enables refugees to stay in a dignified manner and to protect their rights. but the burden must not be just bulgarian: it is the enormous pressure of immigration. we must provide assistance to refugees and the bulgarian authorities, either through the solidarity mechanism or by other appropriate means. the responsibility is shared. these are people who are particularly vulnerable, and every day of inaction can be fatal to a new life.
in south-east europe, six countries are at different stages of the accession process. the surprising progress in serbia-kosovo relations has brought progress for both countries: serbia has started accession negotiations, kosovo is on track for a stabilisation and association agreement, albania is moving closer to candidate status. among the reports we are considering today, i am only pleased with the progress reports on montenegro, but i regret the political inertia in bosnia and herzegovina and the inability to make substantial progress in macedonia. the situation in both countries is not simply the result of their internal problems. the european union has shown in the case of serbia and kosovo that its determined engagement can be successful. i propose that, after years of frustration, the european union should commit itself with similar determination to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina and macedonia, which is in the interest of the european union and development in the region. the interests of the people of the region, who are not to blame for the internal political divisions or the quality of the relations between neighbours, must be given priority. it is not enough to focus on individual countries, it is necessary to develop a relationship with the european perspective of the region as a whole.
on behalf of the s&d group. finally, we renew the last agency of the european union, congratulations to the rapporteur. i am glad that we have reached a common position on the future arrangements for the data protection authority. however, the compromise that gives powers to the european data protection supervisor with a certain degree of cooperation with national data protection authorities raises certain concerns. i am concerned that the quality of the control of personal data will be seriously undermined, which constitutes an interference with the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. it is incorrect to interpret the category of operational personal data as processed and stored by europol as being comparable to the personal data stored in the vis or the sis. for this reason, it is also wrong to conclude that the same system of supervision can apply to all. with all due respect to the new body and the exceptionally dedicated staff of 13 responsible for oversight in the union agencies and institutions, the proposed solution is flawed. colleagues, the new challenge will not be met without knowledge, experience and much closer cooperation with national data protection authorities. this should be a common supervisory authority, a kind of institution responsible for the control of operational personal data of europol, eurojust, the european public prosecutor's office or even all the agencies in the field of internal affairs and justice. it is important that the authority that stores, processes and protects personal data is professional, efficient and independent. the solution we are talking about will unfortunately be inadequate in the situations we have seen in the past, when the revelations of wiretapping, illegal data collection and processing came to light. europe must become an equal partner and step on the toes of even the most powerful. and we can only do that with the right solutions. i hope that the council will listen to our views and that the new body will be able to function as effectively as possible as soon as possible.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you for your excellent cooperation, we have broad support from all political groups. i believe that this text will open the doors of the union to many young students, trainees, volunteers and researchers. it is essential that these talents are provided with legal, social and health protection and that the exploitation of these talents is stopped. it is essential that the bureaucratic procedures for obtaining visas and permits and for applying for them be shortened and the fees for these be reduced or eliminated. our ageing europe must be attractive and safe for many talented young people. this is another crisis response measure that will foster cultural, social and other ties. parliament is once again proving itself more ambitious than the council, which is still far from adopting its position. ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to meet the global challenge if we close our borders impenetrably, especially to young people, and i hope that we will support the libe committee's proposal by a large majority in the vote tomorrow.
slovenia was hit by a severe natural disaster at the end of january, causing enormous damage. the moist air from the south and the icy winds from the continent combined to form a thick blanket of rain, snow, and ice that forged nature into a very heavy ice. road and rail communications have been cut off. the power lines are down. in the coldest of winters, the electricity was out for days, in some places for ten days. seven million cubic meters of timber has been broken, torn, destroyed. one-sixth of the households were without electricity. schools had to close. the network's down in most of the country. the villages still use the generators today. many communities are completely dependent on such care. slovenia suffered damage that far exceeds eur 300 million. for a small economy in the midst of a financial crisis, this is a huge blow. i call on the government of the republic of slovenia to submit a request for solidarity assistance as soon as possible, and on the european commission to give priority to the request and to send the aid proposal to the european parliament for approval during this mandate.
in writing. gender-based violence is a violation of fundamental human rights and the victim may be exposed to both physical and psychological violence. women, the majority of the population, are the most vulnerable to this type of violence. the figures are worrying, as between 20% and 25% of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once, and over 10% have been subjected to sexual violence using force. that is why i support the report by mrs parvanova. in some places it does indeed seriously undermine subsidiarity, but i think action at european level is justified. we should have zero tolerance for violence, no matter where it happens or who it happens to. i welcome its concrete proposals, in particular: the preparation of a strategy and action plan to prevent violence against women and girls, the preparation of a legislative proposal to prevent violence against women and girls, the identification of this violence as one of the areas of crime, better public awareness, the request for action by the member states. it is particularly important to develop and implement those measures that offer assistance to victims.
in writing. - i supported the report on the fund for european aid to the most deprived, which increases the amount of funds from eur 2.5 billion to eur 3.5 billion, strengthens the role of anti-poverty organisations, establishes controls on the functioning of the fund and simplifies the procedures for distributing the money. this is the result of the efforts of the parliament, which in its negotiations with the ec countries has kept the size of the fund at eur 3.5 billion. the member states proposed a reduction of eur 1 billion. in accordance with parliament's requests, the fund will be operational immediately. in addition, the money from the fund will go to food aid and basic material assistance, such as clothing and school supplies. the money from the fund will also support food donations, in particular their collection, transport and distribution. this will help to reduce food waste.
in writing. - i voted against the report on plant breeding: opportunities for improving quality and yield. i certainly agree that society must also invest in plant breeding, developing practices and technologies to improve food quality, increase yields and reduce post-harvest losses. however, these investments should be directed primarily towards knowledge and technology that provide real and long-term benefits for society and the environment. the potential of knowledge-based solutions as well as classical breeding is far from being fully exploited: we need to better understand ecological systems, exploit the potential of plant genetic resources, discover more about efficient rotation and diversified farming, and improve methods for biological protection of plants. i did not vote for the report because i think it is too open to further encouraging the cultivation of gmos and the introduction of other high-tech solutions which i do not recognise as part of the solution to the problems facing the agricultural and food sectors. i would like to emphasise that i understand the principle of 'safe food supply' expressly by focusing on healthy food. i also think that this report is not enough on the biodiversity side. i also took into account the fact that more than 60% of europeans are against gmos. i also find it important that 19 member state governments oppose the introduction of genetically modified maize 1507 and that several member states have decided not to allow the cultivation of gmos.
on behalf of the alde group. the directive aims primarily at establishing a european database of events which could lead to an accident, but also allows for coordinated analysis. at present, such information is still too fragmented across member states. this makes it even more difficult to detect less frequent events, let alone negative trends that are relevant and potentially dangerous. alde strongly supported the rapporteur in her tran committee discussion of the directive, which enriched the european commission's proposal with strong and effective legal protection for all whistleblowers and so-called whistleblowers. no airline should reduce costs at the expense of the safety of its passengers and crew. we take very, very seriously the reports that some low-paid people are even punishing their employees for warning about dangerous practices in the european parliament. in alde we have tried to provide greater understanding and the necessary flexibility for smaller companies and tailored reporting requirements to them, so that the safety-oriented directive does not unnecessarily and harmfully stifle activities in the general aviation sector. it is inconceivable that a company with a few dozen employees, for example, which manufactures and tests ultralight aircraft, should use the same procedures and have specifically employed persons only to report and report on the same types of incidents as, for example, the much larger international airlines. thank you for your words and congratulations to the reporter.
thank you, dear colleague grossetête, for this, for this is a very important programme. because what do we want today? we want a healthy individual, physically healthy and also mentally healthy. we want a healthy society, and that requires healthy economic growth, which we especially need in this crisis. with about 100 million chronic patients in europe, and with more than a third of us over the age of 65, health is really a challenge to start with awareness in kindergarten and continue to university, to involve these patient organisations, which can be a big driver of innovation, which can also be a big driver of proposals for new health solutions. because the new solutions are, of course, also in the fact that we can solve many things remotely, that there is telemedicine, that it is something that makes it easier for everyone to access health services. we live longer today. we're lucky to live longer, but life expectancy is not the same for men or women. women are still at an advantage here, and conditions for men need to be improved, as well as conditions throughout europe, to balance life expectancy, because there are huge differences today. unfortunately, it depends largely on the quality of life. it also depends on the quality of the health services. so we see that health is also an opportunity for work, for jobs, and especially in the connection of health and healthy food, there is an opportunity for all of us.
in writing. young people in slovenia will also benefit from this support. we know that we have the fastest growing youth unemployment rate in the world. the youth guarantee is certainly a welcome instrument! for many young europeans, it is a source of inspiration and optimism in their search for a job. otherwise, they will indeed become a lost generation and europe will become a non-working society, and paradoxically, a society that has already become old (with so much non-inclusion of young people in society)! if the beneficiary countries follow the objectives of the scheme and actively participate in its implementation, this project will succeed. but if the government bureaucracies are going to do what they did in a group of countries that the ec did not submit timely implementation plans on what they are going to do with that money, then it's not going to be a success story. i would invite the european commission to examine more closely the appropriateness of the use of these funds. this will also increase the efficiency of consumption in the member states. but it is important to know that the youth guarantee does not solve youth unemployment. it's just a firefight! most importantly, as i have already stressed in my report on 'youth and mobility', i would like to reiterate that education systems in the eu member states must respond to the needs of society and markets. without this, youth unemployment will not decrease even if we allocate 10 times more money to the youth guarantee scheme.
in writing. - i supported the ec health programme for the period 2014-2020, which has almost €450 million in budgetary resources. the programme aims to focus on the main areas where the ec can bring added value through its action in the health sector. the programme is part of the europe 2020 strategy and is intended to stimulate innovation in healthcare, ensure its sustainability and improve the health of european citizens. prevention, protecting citizens from cross-border health threats, innovating our health systems and, ultimately, improving access to better and safer healthcare for all eu citizens are the priorities of the new health programme.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that good business practices and social and environmental responsibility are very important in extractive activities. the report says that a comprehensive strategy is needed to address, among other challenges, how to tackle the root causes of blood mines, how best to manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining, and how to better support and integrate artisanal and small-scale mining activities. other key issues to be addressed are: the nature and status of csr initiatives, the issue of capture, management and distribution of mine revenue, optimisation of mine-related links and the implications of international trade and investment rules for mine-based industrialisation.
ukraine is a very serious challenge, not just to its neighbours, but to the entire continent. we need to act now. in slovenia we have a saying: "he who gives quickly, gives twice. 'ukraine also needs financial assistance immediately, and the european union can and must help. no promises, no announcements, what is needed is a tangible response from the european union. many victims were brutally murdered, and sniper killings must be punished most severely. they cannot be abolished, that would be inhuman. in a revolutionary atmosphere, decisions are made that should be regretted and corrected as soon as possible. to deprive russian of its status as an official language is such an ill-advised and wrong decision. the message the new authorities are sending to the ukrainian russians is wrong, discouraging, justifiably disturbing. the size of the majority is most reflected in its relationship to the minority, and especially to language. i come from the former yugoslavia and it is with great concern that i draw attention to the negative consequences of this ill-considered decision. we can best help ukraine together with russia, which can be a very valuable and irreplaceable partner. we need to stabilize ukraine, and the cold war-era confrontation and division is a relic of the last century. so again, russian and russia have their positive part to play in this story.
in writing. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in ukraine has changed, thanks to the democratic will of the people and the european union's steadfast commitment. unfortunately, there have been many casualties. this important change is accompanied by great expectations, but at the same time by the awareness that this is a fragile stability. it is clear that the changes do not in themselves bring solutions to the current problems, but provide a new and more democratic framework for their solution. ukraine has seen a commitment to europe unprecedented in the history of the european union. this fact commits the european union to continue its policy of rapprochement with ukraine with determination. there is no basis for interpreting the will of the ukrainian people and the european union in the spirit of the old geopolitical paradigm. this development should also strengthen the partnership between the european union and the russian federation. i believe that ukraine needs to be systematically helped to deal with its political, economic and social problems through sustained political attention, clear messages and a well-designed assistance programme.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, the transition that began in iraq over a decade ago remains still a challenging process. throughout this time, iraq has been confronted with the difficult legacy of its past, while also trying to respond to new threats to its stability. in recent years iraq was able to record progress in several important areas, but the security situation remains very challenging. the european union is alarmed by the deterioration in the security situation, which appears to be driven by internal as well as external factors. internally, political divisions and sectarian tensions between the sunni and the shi’a communities have significantly contributed to the worsening security environment. all of iraq’s political and religious leaders share a common responsibility to address the root causes of these tensions, by promoting reconciliation and speaking out against violent extremism. in addition, the iraqi government has a particular responsibility to promote inclusive and transparent political processes, to enable the voices of all of iraq’s component groups to be heard. the upcoming general elections on 30[nbsp ]april, and the formation of a new government, could be an opportunity to advance in this direction. it is important for these elections to be held on time. the european union will be present with an election expert mission and a support to domestic observation. at the same time, we have to recognise that iraq’s stability does not depend exclusively on internal factors. the syrian crisis continues to have a major impact. the commission has made available eur[nbsp ]7.3 million and eur[nbsp ]13.5 million of humanitarian assistance in iraq in 2012 and 2013, respectively. in 2014, echo, the humanitarian office, will continue to support syrian refugees in iraq, whose numbers have now surpassed 230[nbsp ]000 people. more importantly, the syrian conflict bears clear security consequences for iraq. the current fighting in anbar province, where the government continues to confront the islamic front of iraq and the levant (the isil), is a direct consequence of this. iraq urgently needs counter-terrorism assistance from the international community to confront this outside threat to the country’s stability. following a formal request from prime minister al-maliki, the european union is ready to cooperate with iraq on a comprehensive response. a joint eu-member states assessment mission to iraq took place last december, and our experts are currently evaluating possible forms of support. iraq’s efforts to combat terrorism must comply with the principles of human rights and with international humanitarian law. no compromise on human rights. the european union rejects the notion that rights violations are an inevitable or necessary price to pay for security. and high representative/vice-president ashton personally delivered this message to the foreign minister of iraq, mr zebari, during the cooperation council meeting on 20[nbsp ]january. she specifically raised some of the most difficult questions for iraq, including allegations of torture by security forces, confession-based convictions, the often indiscriminate use of so-called ‘terrorism charges’, proxy arrests, including those of women, the treatment of prisoners and the dramatic increase in the use of the death penalty. iraq continues to face obstacles in building a culture of human rights as it emerges from decades of abusive dictatorship. our formal human rights dialogue, within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), took place for the first time in november 2013. high representative/vice-president catherine ashton was encouraged to see that the iraqi authorities admitted that serious human rights challenges still had to be overcome in iraq. all the component bodies created under the eu-iraq pca met for the first time between october and january. this shows a very encouraging level of commitment from iraq, for which the pca is genuinely important. iraq has already ratified this agreement and the member states who have not yet completed this procedure are hopefully going to do so quickly. ultimately, progress in our cooperation will depend on each side fulfilling the mutual obligation under the agreement. the eu will continue to support pca implementation by offering targeted assistance in alignment with iraq’s national development plan. for the period 2014-2020, the european union’s focus will be on strengthening the rule of law, education and energy. the european union’s support will be delivered in close coordination with iraq’s other partners, and in particular with the united nations assistance mission for iraq (unami) and the special representative of the un secretary-general, mr nicolay mladenov. we commend the efforts of unami to assist the government of iraq in strengthening its democratic institutions, promoting the rule of law, facilitating regional dialogue, improving the provision of basic services and ensuring the protection of human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. the bloody war in syria, the crisis in turkey and now in ukraine, are drawing a lot of our attention that we could and should be giving to iraq. i come from slovenia, former yugoslavia, and i am particularly sensitive to the rights of minorities and the oppression of minorities. it's not just the catholic christian minority that's the problem. the shiite majority and its government bear full responsibility for the enforcement, as well as the violation, of all rights of the sunni minority. it takes responsibility, it takes breadth. the time for revenge for the crimes committed against most of us in the past by a dictatorial regime is long past. the concentration and embodying of all repressive agencies in the office of prime minister al maliki and in him personally is unacceptable. this is not modern iraq, so iraq belongs to the past. we need to focus on the future, on economic development, on government serving the people, all the people, including the minorities who are still living very hard. uninterrupted electricity is still more of a wish than a reality for people. of course, we can congratulate the rapid development of electronic communications, including broadband signals, or coverage, that will help iraq connect, open up and bring the world closer together. on the other hand, it is unacceptable that the iraqi government is buying weapons and ammunition from iran in violation of the united nations embargo. these are the wrong messages and the wrong priorities for a multiethnic, multicultural, multi-confessional and federative iraq.
as you are aware, much of slovenia has been literally buried in ice in the recent weather disturbance. at present, many places are still completely flooded. the damage is in the millions, both in infrastructure and in nature, and the full extent of the disaster will only be fully revealed over time. we slovenians have shown extraordinary solidarity in helping each other to help those affected. last week, slovenian meps called on the european parliament's negotiating team to adopt as soon as possible the new rules for allocating funds from the european union solidarity fund. slovenia is undoubtedly entitled to the funds, as the damage exceeded the threshold of eur 300 million in the first few days alone. the new arrangement also introduces advance payments, which would be essential for a country in need of immediate assistance. i hope that the negotiations will be concluded as soon as possible and that slovenia will be able to draw on the aid under the new rules. the governmental procedures for requesting assistance from the solidarity fund are already underway, and i therefore invite the commission to give priority to the application. thank you all for your help.
sometimes nature really does show its teeth. in my country, slovenia, this happens all the time. the last ice storm caused hundreds of millions of dollars in damage. on the same day, mr van rompuy, president of the council, visited slovenia and was visibly shocked by what he saw. the ice has destroyed half of slovenia's forests, 4,000 miles of forest roads, power lines, and so on. slovenia has now prepared a recovery programme. unlike the uk, slovenia will apply for assistance from the european solidarity fund because it meets the conditions, as the damage is higher than 0.6% of gross national income. so, thank you in advance for your help. whoever gives quickly, gives twice, so i would like to thank especially on behalf of the people who suffered a lot of damage, also to the neighboring countries, especially austria, which provided many aggregates when there was an electrical blackout in slovenia. fire crews came in droves, and they also helped the slovenian rescue workers with the accident.
the reporter. - first of all, i would like to personally thank the libe committee for supporting the urgency of the debate on the future common visa policy. and then i'd like to thank the shadow reporters. the resolution reflects the importance of the union's visa policy for third countries, a policy that responds to people's expectations, to the most tangible value of european integration, freedom of movement. we need to simplify procedures, make it easier for people to travel. we must not allow different criteria to be applied when assessing the readiness of countries to enter a visa-free regime. today is a very important day, a historic day for the citizens of the republic of moldova. they will soon be able to travel to the schengen area without a visa before the summer. the republic of moldova has fulfilled all the strict and required criteria for visa-free entry after three and a half years of negotiations and has thus done a lot of work. the difficult and lengthy process has finally paid off. the result that matters most to ordinary people, to the young and to all those less fortunate, weak and socially vulnerable. as politicians, we have a special responsibility to the people and i am glad that we have this opportunity again to be, personally, the rapporteur for moldova. the experience of visa-free travel in the past for the western balkans, where bloody wars raged years ago, is invaluable to people. i want to finally get the visa walls down for the people of kosovo. colleagues, politicians, and businessmen travel, criminals don't wait for visas. when we decide on visa-free travel, we decide on the freedom of ordinary people. freedom of movement is a fundamental right of every european. the eu has also made a number of important contributions to the development of the european union, including the establishment of a european union information and communication system (ecis) and the establishment of a european information and communication system (ecis). moreover, the right to freedom of movement is one of the key elements of peace and harmony among peoples and is essential for the well-being of people. i am particularly pleased that we are taking this decision at a difficult time for europe, with a dangerous rise in euroscepticism ahead of the european elections. when i recently visited moldova, i met with representatives of ngos, civil society, who are hesitant but very optimistic about the good news from the european parliament today. this year is truly a historic one for the republic of moldova, which is also expecting the signing of an association agreement in the autumn. today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the future of the union's common visa policy. our resolution is intended to call in particular on the european commission and the member states of the union to draw attention to the many discrepancies, the different criteria and procedures, the lack of implementation of european union law and the future of a visa policy that will not be subject to the influence and interests of capital of stronger states and to the detriment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. visa policy is one of the fundamental tools of european foreign policy in our relations with third countries. from the establishment of a common visa policy, which lacked very critical harmonisation, including common rules on the issuing of visas, the lisbon treaty brought about a major change by giving the european parliament the power to give its consent to international agreements, including the issue of a visa waiver agreement. last year, after almost three years of negotiations, we adopted a very problematic mechanism to temporarily lift the visa-free regime in the event of a sudden increase in asylum seekers. problematic because the states will be able to decide for themselves without the democratic control of the european parliament. i warn you that it is our responsibility to stop the attempts of those governments and politicians who would like to exploit the mechanism for domestic political purposes. despite its promises, the commission has still not presented a proposal for a revised visa code, which is unfortunately very outdated. colleagues, we are also witnessing unrest, violence in our neighborhood, which is causing innocent people to lose their lives on their way to europe. despite existing legislation, many eu member states still do not issue humanitarian visas, which could save many lives, because people could apply for them from outside. when we discuss visa policy, we can't ignore the events in ukraine, that's all, chairman. people have died for europe there under the european flag and we therefore call on the commission today to seriously consider the possibility and propose visa waiver for ukraine as well, once the country meets the conditions.
the reporter. - i'm glad we agree on the need for a more transparent, credible and fair visa policy. we've made some really important decisions recently, visa waivers for 16 pacific and caribbean islands, peru, colombia, the united arab emirates with protectorates, moldova today, and i congratulate you all sincerely. unfortunately, not everything is working as it should. many feel that they are being treated unfairly, as in kosovo, similar to the visa facilitation regimes in ukraine, and that we need to improve this. it's especially important for young researchers, scientists. we need to improve and simplify the common visa policy. it's the most tangible thing we can offer people. and that is what we in europe can be most proud of. i therefore welcome any further steps by the european commission in this direction. the future of the common visa policy is crucial for the future of a united and strong europe.
in writing. - i have approved the proposal for a new tobacco directive, which aims to make smoking less attractive to young people. the new rules require that visual health warnings about the dangers of smoking cover 65% of the surface of tobacco packaging. e-cigarettes will be regulated as medical devices only if they are presented as a smoking cessation aid, and not as tobacco products otherwise. e-cigarettes will not contain more than 20mg/l of nicotine, will have to carry a health warning and will be banned from sale to users under the age of 18. e-cigarettes will be subject to the same marketing restrictions as tobacco products. the law prohibits adding flavor to cigarettes and rolling tobacco to give them a distinctive taste and make them more appealing to smokers. menthol will be banned from 2020 onwards. however, flavours shall remain permitted for water pipe tobacco. some additives that are particularly harmful to health will be banned, and the authorities will be able to require the tobacco industry to carry out additional studies on additives that the european commission will list.
in writing. - prostitution is a violation of human dignity and is contrary to the principles of human rights. the eu's advantage is that there are different practices, more or less successful, for solving problems. that is why i always support the sharing of data on the effectiveness of different approaches. so is prostitution. the nordic model has been the most successful of the european models, and i support calls for member states to adopt the principles of this model in their legal order.
in writing. - i totally endorse this report as i consider, in the same way that the rapporteur pointed out, that prostitution brings by definition, slavery abuse and exploitation, gender inequality, child sexual abuse and organised crime, degrading of women as sexual objects and many more ills that are not in society’s interest. i voted against those amendments which falsely recognise a distinction between sexual slavery and prostitution as a profession as, wherever prostitution occurs, there is sexual abuse.
in writing. - a victim of the struggle for a democratic and european ukraine must be remembered in the heart of europe. i have been very keen to ensure that the european parliament's word to ukraine is constructive and full of hope. more than 100 ukrainians gave their lives fighting for the greater integration of their homeland with the european union. after all that has happened, i am even more convinced that the ec must develop a permanent and consistent political approach to ukraine that addresses not only the issue of the democratic deficit but also the consequences of bad governance. it will take many years to repair and create the conditions for new growth. we are also committed to this work by the victims who fell for europe in the largest pro-european protests in the history of the european union. our whole relationship with ukraine includes a relationship with the victims.
in writing. - i voted for the alternative resolution and against the report, as i consider it unbalanced.
in writing. - i support the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the textile industry in valencia, as i am well aware of this case as a member of the european parliament from slovenia. the fund also came to our aid in the case of the textile company mura. consequently, the fund has two important roles in this period of economic crisis. first, it allows businesses, and especially workers, to find new opportunities, either through further education or through the creation of their own businesses, even if they lose their jobs. by supporting human capital, we will enable our citizens, and especially young people, to stand on their own feet and start generating economic growth. secondly, the fund makes it possible to maintain industrial production within the european union. this preserves not only the technical know-how and decades of experience, but also the production of products with high added value. taking the textile industry as an example, we can ensure its competitiveness on the world market by focusing on innovative design and ensuring high quality products. only in this way will we be able to ensure that the european globalisation adjustment fund will not be so necessary in the future.
as a member of the european parliament, my main concerns are food, health and jobs. food is our common language. this calls for a more careful approach to food. we certainly cannot put 12 regulations together in such a short time and with so little debate, anticipating all the consequences that this simplification could have for people. thinking about people's health, but also thinking about what the young people will do tomorrow, that's our duty. and it all starts with the seeds. when the seed is good, the harvest is good. and the commission must also think about this. that is why i voted against this regulation.
in writing. - i voted to reject the controversial bill on plant reproductive material, also known as the seed regulation. it would give the commission very broad powers and leave member states little room to develop new rules to suit their needs. i believe that the proposed regulation does not meet the main objectives of simplification and innovation. plant reproductive material is currently regulated by 12 directives, due to its extraordinary diversity, which makes it possible to adapt legislation to each individual case. the 'one-size-fits-all' approach thus risks not meeting the different requirements of existing plant reproductive material and the needs of operators, consumers and competent authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on genetic resources because, by means of this proposal for a regulation prepared by the commission, the european union is committing itself to the transposition of the nagoya protocol. the purpose of the regulation is to improve the chain of use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, to enhance transparency and legal certainty, to introduce new uses of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge and to progressively ensure compliance. the convention on biological diversity and the nagoya protocol ensure fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from all forms of utilisation of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge. the overall package aims to ensure that the european union takes a leading role in current and future international negotiations and, with a progressive approach, rapidly achieves the ambitious global multilateral mechanism that it has set out to address the challenges of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use.
in writing. - there are still differences between men and women in the eu, which indicate the subordinate role of women in society. equal opportunities for men and women are a fundamental human right of the eu, and i am therefore in favour of a more active role for the european commission in improving the situation of women. however, i believe that we must respect the existing european legal order and, in accordance with subsidiarity, distinguish between european and national measures. i regret that the rapporteur was not prepared to coordinate the text of the resolution. the european parliament has not adopted a common position on the resolution. the only real losers of entrenched political positions are european women.
in writing. - i voted against the report as a whole, although i agree with some parts of it. i do not agree with the report in the parts that are against christian values (promotion of abortion, promotion of all kind of families, "gender stereotypes" in education at school, etc.).
i shall be very sorry if this is the last report by our colleague, mrs rie oomen-ruijten, on turkey. we have become accustomed to her standard of quality and, once again, i must congratulate her on a truthful and balanced report that acknowledges progress and expresses criticism and concern where appropriate. i will not go into details at the end of my term, but will give some general views. the negotiating process is taking place all the time in the highly complex context of political differences within the european union, political developments in turkey and developments in the wider region. despite all the differences and fluctuations in dynamics, the fact is that the negotiating process during this mandate has brought new reforms and opened up the discussion of some issues whose solution is essential for turkey's internal consolidation as well as for its progress in the negotiating process. as one of the fresh facts in this regard, i should mention the democratic package, although i regret the lack of attention to the alevis and expect greater willingness for full implementation. although this is a 2013 report, i think it is important to note that the fifth judicial package was recently enacted as well as an action plan to prevent violations of the european convention on human rights. i am pleased that we are nearing the end of the visa liberalisation process. but i'm not happy with the fact that we continue to have such different views on what the division of power means, how to deal with corruption, what we understand as democratic pluralism, and what we can declare a conspiracy. when we're more united on this, the report will speak of more progress.
first of all, i would like to thank my neighbour, mr mayer, who has produced an excellent report and, as a pilot (you may not all know that he is a pilot), he has been able to put himself in the shoes of the user, that is, the consumer. i think it's a wonderful combination, like a doctor, when he's sick, he steps into the shoes of the patient. well, and also for my homeland, slovenia, it's a hugely important issue, because cross-border, package bookings are particularly important for small countries. we're within a 100-mile radius of the city, and we're already in another state. so for consumer protection, that's great, and it's also great that there's a very clear responsibility. because in times of insolvency, it is the vague liability that can ruin many people's vacation.
the regulation on the abandonment of fluorinated greenhouse gases is the regulation that will certainly benefit innovation in business, development, and of course it will also benefit health and our planet. it would be interesting to see a survey and a study on how many elementary school students today know how negatively fluoridated gases affect our environment. that they produce 23,000 times more heat than co2, and that any device that incorporates these gases has a practical lifespan of 50 years. if everyone knew what that meant, then they would probably behave differently every day. we cool down every day, everywhere, we cool down food, we cool down ourselves, and yet we don't think about the opportunities architects have to design different buildings. what's happening today is that the cancer institute in my home country, slovenia, is completely dependent on air conditioning, so there's no air that can get through the window. and if we now think more about natural refrigeration, not just about air conditioners, it would also help to improve the situation in addition to this regulation.
i think that the european council will be, because of the events in ukraine and the emergence of new frozen conflicts, we cannot expect anything else from crimea and the situation there than to have a new crisis hotspot, so the european council will have to ask itself what is the common european policy. or the common european foreign policy can be replaced by ad hoc trips of foreign ministers to kiev, which often end up with scandalous results, such as the telephone conversation between an estonian minister and lady ashton, or the intervention of three ministers in an agreement that did not last 24 hours. i think the european union will have to prove itself in resolving frozen conflicts, not in creating new ones. i think we need a common foreign policy and that is what the heads of state and government should be saying, what instruments we have for that.
in writing. the industrial policy summit was cancelled twice in one year. i am pleased, however, that the leaders of the member states will now be discussing the problems facing european industry. it is an important component of the european economy, and its share of eu gdp has fallen from 20% to 15% over the last 15 years. in slovenia, the number of employees in industry also decreased by as much as 17% between 2004 and 2012. i therefore expect the leaders to outline the guidelines for creating a more competitive environment. this includes the development of programmes to draw on cohesion funds, the creation of a functioning energy market by reducing energy prices, increased investment in research and development projects, education close to the needs of the economy, the development of appropriate infrastructure such as energy and telecommunications. the debate on the new energy and climate package covering policies up to 2030 will show how serious the leaders are about strengthening the industry. existing policies up to 2020 are proving to be expensive and too politically oriented, and are virtually not based on a competitive approach. only if the summit in this area strengthens market performance will european industry have a better future and people have more jobs.
in writing. the european union and nato have lost the battle in the case of the russian invasion of ukraine for now. but i firmly believe that we will not lose the war, that the final outcome will not be like this. russian president putin has succeeded in achieving the first diplomatic goal, i.e. "frozen conflict", which could make it more difficult for ukraine to integrate into the euro-atlantic area. the european union was unprepared for the russian invasion. how is this even possible given the speculation of some individuals on the left of parliament who like to talk about the omnipotence of the west when it comes to wiretapping? russia's geostrategic objectives obviously go beyond ukraine, all the way to the adriatic. what to do, how to stop them? i believe that we must work towards immediate sanctions against russia, ensure that the eu is drawing up agreements with other countries in the region, such as moldova and georgia, and accelerate the enlargement process, including the balkans.
in writing. - i warmly welcome the decision of the european parliament to adopt a report on europe's gastronomic heritage. in the globalized world of food trade, little is known about the negative effects of inappropriate and unwise food choices. it has a negative impact on the health of individuals as well as on agriculture, tourism and the manufacturing industry. by integrating the importance of food into education from kindergarten to university, we can easily achieve improvements in the health of our citizens. moreover, by putting more emphasis on local products in the curricula of culinary schools, we will take an important step in the fight against billions of euros of food that is lost in transit to europe. the report is also of great importance for the preservation of the various gastronomic traditions that enrich both european and national cultural heritage, dating back thousands of years. at the same time, this diversity is also an incentive for food production. the use of modern technology, the metaphorical link between the computer and the computer, opens the door to employment for the unemployed and especially young people, and thus to a reduction in the member states' dependence on imported and low-quality food.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment[nbsp ]64 included in the alternative motion for a resolution and against amendments[nbsp ]4 and 5.
in writing. - i support the adoption of new rules on the control of the impact of human activities on the environment. it is important that despite the economic crisis, we have managed to take measures that simultaneously improve the protection of our precious natural environment, reduce administrative barriers and allow for faster environmental project placement. speed is key to boosting investment in europe. the new rules will reduce both the economic and social costs of all activities that interfere with the natural environment. economic, as member states will now only be required to carry out assessments in cases of major environmental impact. this will make it easier for individuals, businesses and member states not only to exploit natural resources safely but also to focus on the acquisition of new knowledge through research. the citizens will pay a lower price. better and more objective enforcement will help countries to prevent environmentally harmful projects. the creation of an information web portal will now also improve the information available to citizens. in addition, the national authorities will be obliged to take account of their opinion. the public will also be able to participate more actively in the implementation of projects that will contribute to economic growth.
in writing. - i agree with the main message of mep claude moraes in his report on the us nsa surveillance programme, the surveillance authorities in the various member states and the impact on eu citizens' fundamental rights. i am less satisfied with the debate, which mr pirker has rightly described as phantom. it's clear that cybersecurity is becoming a fundamental human right. and there is no doubt: the offenders must be convicted. i find this discussion one-sided. if the united states were really that effective at surveilling ordinary citizens and world leaders, then we would surely have discovered russian plans to invade ukraine. but they're not. they must have lacked the right information, because the events in crimea were a complete surprise for the us, for the eu and for nato. clearly, there must be political control over intelligence agencies, european and others, including the us. our civilization is founded and collapses on the freedom of the individual. in my opinion, even when it comes to cybersecurity, the east poses a much greater threat to the european union than the west (of which we are a part). but i strongly oppose proposals that an eu member state would grant asylum to someone who, armed with spy files, found sanctuary in russia. finally, in the current situation, this would be a completely wrong message to the pro-european forces in ukraine and the democratic public in the eu.
in writing. - i voted for the report by ms kinge göncz on the evaluation of justice in the field of criminal law and the rule of law, as i support the proposals for greater control over the functioning of justice systems. the poor situation and lack of reforms in some post-communist countries, such as slovenia, mean that only 24% of slovenes and slovenes trust the justice system, according to the latest eurostat figures. in comparison, in denmark and finland, as many as 85 percent of the population trust their judicial authorities. i understand the meps from stable democracies and from countries where they have no problems with the rule of law who are against more regulation and interference by the european institutions. but the situation varies quite a bit from country to country, so i am personally in favour of more control and better regulation.
in writing. - it's a pity that we continue to have different views on the division of power, corruption and democratic pluralism. i congratulated the rapporteur, rija omen rujten, on a truthful and balanced report which acknowledges progress and expresses criticism and concern where appropriate. the negotiating process is taking place all the time in the highly complex context of political differences within the ec, political developments in turkey and developments in the wider region. despite all the differences and fluctuations in dynamics, the fact is that the negotiating process during this mandate has brought new reforms and opened up the discussion of some issues whose solution is essential for turkey's internal consolidation as well as for its progress in the negotiating process. as one of the fresh facts in this regard, i should mention the democratic package, although i regret the lack of attention to the alevis and expect greater willingness for full implementation. the commission has also received comments from the belgian authorities, which have not provided any further information. i am pleased that we are nearing the end of the visa liberalisation process. but i'm not happy with the fact that we continue to have such different views on what the division of power means, how to deal with corruption, what we understand as democratic pluralism, and what we can declare a conspiracy. when we're more united on this, the report will speak of greater progress.
on behalf of the s&d group. let me start by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent cooperation. although we have already entered the new multiannual financial framework in january, we will be voting on one more of the last dossiers tomorrow. both the internal security fund and the asylum, migration and integration fund constitute the basis for action to ensure a high level of security in the european union in an area of freedom, security and justice. to achieve this, appropriate measures must be taken. to combat threats, especially those coming from outside. i'm thinking of organized crime, terrorism. cross-border crime, such as trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of illegal immigration, can only be effectively tackled through close police cooperation. we must face our common problems together. similarly, action at union level in the field of asylum and immigration policy needs to be established to respond to the many challenges we face today, and to be based on solidarity and above all on fairness. we in europe must also take our share of responsibility. we must take the issue of migration very seriously, but not by building walls and closing borders inexorably. that's not the solution, that's the problem. i'm glad that after a long and complicated negotiation, we were able to reach a compromise that includes a number of safeguards. in the fight against fraud and misuse of funds, we have succeeded in ensuring greater transparency over the use of the money from these funds. we also provided greater flexibility for the transfer of funds within programmes, but with safeguards on minimum amounts, including for funds earmarked for programmes in third countries. i am particularly pleased that ngos will also have access to the fundraising. in total, almost eur 7 billion will be available to the member states and the union in the two funds, and member states must draw up appropriate programmes and plans to draw it up. we know that money is not enough, so it is all the more important to have the right and effective mechanisms in place and to spend each euro wisely and thoughtfully. we have always sought that the new structure should contribute to simplification, rationalisation, consolidation and transparency of financing in the field of home affairs, and i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will confirm this tomorrow by voting here in the european parliament.
in writing. - i warmly welcome and strongly support the report on the investigation into the role and functioning of the troika (ecb, commission and international monetary fund) with regard to the euro area programme countries. we are currently witnessing a media and political campaign against the european people's party and right-wing parties not only in slovenia but also in other member states. the report enjoys broad support, particularly among the largest parties, the group of the socialists and democrats and the group of the european people's party. the message that the european parliament is sending to the citizens of the european union is that social problems must be seen in the light of facts and not in the light of ideological calculations. the latter are evident in the denunciation of the austerity policies and adjustment programmes introduced by the troika in the four countries. what these individuals do not realize is that it was thanks to the help offered by the european union that these countries were able to survive the crisis. none of them have gone bankrupt even at the most critical moments. moreover, they have managed to pull themselves out of the crisis and are currently experiencing economic growth. in ireland alone, 60,000 new jobs have been created. slovenia is still in a severe recession.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution because i believe we must show a clear and decisive attitude to what is happening in ukraine. i didn't really expect that people would fall in ukraine because they shared european values. anyone who shares our values is no threat to anyone. we need to build on the determination of the european parliament, the council and the commission with a clear and comprehensive strategy for ukraine, russia and the wider region. the response to this crisis must be more peace, more democracy and more long-term partnerships, less corruption and, above all, the prevention of a new iron curtain.
i would like to say that under your leadership, the european union's common foreign and security policy has become more unified in this mandate, based on the lisbon treaty. among the successes, i would like to congratulate you in particular on the progress in relations between serbia and kosovo, which is an excellent and necessary achievement within europe itself. progress on macedonia and bosnia and herzegovina is also essential if we are to complete the project of a united europe in south-eastern europe. the challenges we have experienced in africa, the middle east and elsewhere in the neighbourhood show that stability in democratic frameworks is not guaranteed everywhere. with two extremely important strategic partners, russia and turkey, we have important differences in our views on democracy and partnership itself. it is also clear that many countries in the neighbourhood will be faced with the issue of good governance for a long time in their transition to democracy. this issue needs to be given more attention in the future, not only in ukraine. madam vice president, high representative, i would like to conclude by thanking you for the trust you have placed in me by appointing me to the observer missions in africa.
in writing. - i am very pleased that we in the european parliament have taken an important step towards greater protection of patients in the european union. patients should have confidence in medical devices, since their lives often depend on them. however, in the last few years, medical devices for patients have been shown to pose a risk. problems have arisen, such as lack of transparency, rapid approval and placing medical devices on the market despite insufficient research in patients. the new, stricter rules introduced by this regulation will reduce the possibility of finding inadequate, unhealthy or substandard medical devices in our pharmacies and hospitals. the monitoring and immediate electronic reporting of any problems with devices on the market and the measures to resolve these problems will be strengthened. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. it will also reduce the risk for patients who have to live with their devices for many years. each patient will receive a card with all the information about the device and the patient. doctors, no matter where they are, will have the data to save their lives.
in writing. - i warmly welcome the decision of the european parliament to adopt a regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. just as we need to increase safety for patients using medical devices, we also need additional assurances that the tools we use to detect diseases and health problems are of appropriate quality. the quality of healthcare and confidence in diagnoses will be ensured by enhanced controls on diagnostic devices, by requiring manufacturers to ensure traceability and reporting to the responsible bodies, and by improving access to information for the public and healthcare professionals. we have also achieved a higher level of protection of patients' rights, in particular as regards the right to decide whether to carry out testing. for example, those who want to undergo genetic testing will need to be informed of all aspects of their decision and give final consent to undergo the test. authorisation will also be required to carry out diagnostic testing on minors and disabled persons in accordance with national legislation. the regulation has improved the competitiveness of smes in the field of in vitro diagnostic devices by taking into account their role. many of these devices are manufactured in the european union by such companies and the regulation will reduce the burden they face. an example of this is the communication of certain information in electronic form. this will not only provide health care but also additional jobs.
in writing. - the european parliament's opinion is a good document, containing clear provisions on the responsibilities of individual actors in the field of nuclear safety. meps call for licence holders to respect the highest standards and the institutional framework at several levels. in doing so, they must also respect the roles of the various actors in the field of nuclear safety. finally, we are also establishing a common framework for the safety inspections of nuclear facilities. the fukushima accident has reminded us of the important role of safety culture in nuclear safety. once again, it has been shown that nuclear technology is not dangerous in itself but that the threat is manifested when people do not act in accordance with the highest nuclear standards. the accident is a reminder to policy makers of the important role well-trained personnel play in maintaining a level of nuclear safety. the eu reacted swiftly to the fukushima accident and carried out stress tests at all nuclear power plants in the union. the results of the tests were presented at three levels: recommendations for the operational part of individual nuclear facilities, recommendations for national regulators and a call for upgrading existing european legislation in the field of nuclear safety. i call on the council to take parliament's opinion into account as far as possible in its text.
in writing. - i am pleased that we in the european parliament have succeeded in adopting measures that will lead to the establishment of a european single market for electronic communications and the achievement of a connected continent. information and communication technologies are increasingly present and important in the daily lives of individuals and businesses. the adoption of this regulation was therefore crucial for citizens of the european union, who will in future have the infrastructure and legal framework to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the digital age. the greatest achievements of european integration and thus of the european union are undoubtedly the single market with its four freedoms and the creation of the schengen system, which has abolished borders between member states. but until now, telecommunications services have been the only thing that reminded us of these old divisions. the regulation we have adopted will connect europe, reduce costs for individuals, especially in terms of roaming, and create new opportunities for both technology start-ups and existing companies in this field. we must not forget that every sector of the economy is connected to telecommunications in one way or another and that the internet offers exceptional opportunities for work and self-employment to too many unemployed young europeans. we have also strengthened the rights of the latter by including an open and neutral internet in the text of the regulation itself.
thank you for this report, which gives a more simplified overview of the legislation as a whole. simplifications are needed today mainly to be better understood by users, rather than by businesses and producers. my question is also about: if we have 48 million people employed throughout the food chain, are there clear risks ahead, because of the new regulations, how many jobs will we destabilize again or how many people are eventually on the critical path to job loss as a result. i certainly welcome this approach, which is necessary, which actually gives everyone a bigger chance to put the emphasis on health, and the balance between health and, of course, jobs, almost at the top of the european people's party's policy.
question asked by raising the blue card i ask mr kožušnik, who proposed detailed solutions. how would you deal with the fact that today in europe we have more than a third of the population over 65 years old, and it is estimated that everyone is visually impaired. and how would you actually save that people from getting the mark closer? so we go beyond any boundary with this labeling, and we don't ask ourselves, is this still functional, is this still close to people?
it is true that future economic growth also depends, in large part, on people's trust and on people's health. and all of this is very product-related. it is also linked to whether smes will be able to survive in this competitive global market. this makes our internal european connectivity all the more important. it is all the more important that people have the courage to cross the border within the european union and buy a product with confidence, that our quality is the one we must respect and that it gives us hope that we can all emerge from the grip of this crisis together.
in writing. - this was the last step in our institutionʼs support for the banking union package. i consider the banking union to be one of the most critical and necessary milestones achieved in the history of the eu, through which we have upgraded and reinforced the euro areaʼs financial system, turning financial governance from national authorities to a union based governance and supervisory system, with single rules for banks, single resolution mechanisms, single resolution funds and single and subsidiary governance. with this we aim to break the negative credit loop effect and avoid systemic risks brought about by governance inequalities.
in writing. plastic bags are a growing threat to the environment. the accumulation of huge quantities of plastic bags in the seas and oceans is a cause for concern. but what really makes me sad is that there are a lot of bags that may only be used once. for someone to use a plastic bag for a few minutes, it will remain in the environment for centuries, since plastic is characterized by a slow rate of degradation. and it's not just a visual problem, but microscopic particles are harmful to the environment. although people are well aware of the problem, when they have to give up the use of ever-new bags, they rarely do so voluntarily. they need a boost, a push, whether it's a bag price or some other measure. that's why i support measures to reduce plastic bag waste. i think that the european parliament's proposal is ambitious enough to protect the environment, but at the same time it leaves enough room for the member states to decide on the best and most effective measures.
in writing. - as shadow rapporteur for the epp, i consistently opposed during the whole procedure the commission proposal for the amendment of the honey directive, which went against the ruling of the ecj in the bablok case (c-442/09). the outcome of the trialogue negotiations, which mostly kept the original proposal, goes against the freedom of choice of consumers who want to understand what is inside the honey they are buying and, most importantly, goes against their concern to consume gmo-free honey. as has been said many times, supporting the achieved compromise means going both against the consumer’s freedom of choice and against the beekeeping sector in its efforts to producing gmo-free honey. the compromise protects the gmo industry in its intention to secure more space for gmo crops, it protects honey packers and importers who blend lower quality honey from foreign markets – absolutely not beekeepers and not consumers. therefore, once again, i was absolutely against the amendment of the honey directive in such a way.
the reporter. - i am pleased that we are ending our mandate by deciding on one of the most important current political projects of the european union. the strategic partnership agreement, which is being intensively negotiated alongside the economic cooperation agreement and the free trade agreement, is an expression of the common will of the european union and japan. both partners of global significance, aware of the importance of global and regional peace, other global challenges and their responsibilities in this regard, wish to build strongly on the well-developing cooperation based on the joint declaration of 1991 and the 2001 action plan. the strategic partnership agreement is a binding agreement covering political, global and sectoral areas of cooperation. the provisions of this agreement will lay a solid foundation for future deeper and broader cooperation in the areas of political dialogue, human rights, security issues such as crisis management, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism; global issues such as climate change, development, humanitarian aid, civil protection, the environment; economic issues such as industrial cooperation, customs duties, taxation, tourism and competitiveness; sectoral cooperation: energy, transport, agriculture, fisheries and maritime; social policy, where i am particularly pleased to have included the areas of health and consumer protection; cooperation in the areas of justice, freedom and security: cybercrime, combating international crime, migration and asylum; and cooperation in the areas of research, space, innovation and culture and education. in total, some 40 areas of strategic cooperation have been identified so far. only partners who genuinely share core values, principles and common interests can cooperate strategically. it is therefore important that both partners, with a common language, express in a credible way, following their democratic principles, all that they will commit to future joint cooperation. the report welcomes the conclusion of the agreement and the work done so far and advocates the continuation of the project with an ambitious momentum. the four rounds of negotiations provided sufficient grounds for the european parliament to express its attitude to the agreement in the making. we see in it not only an opportunity for cooperation between the most responsible institutions on both sides, but also a very important stimulus for rapprochement between the citizens of both sides. this agreement expresses the forward-looking ambition of both partners and therefore, in the report, which was not voted against in the committee on foreign affairs, we do not deal with issues of the past, nor with specific current issues affecting third parties. in this spirit, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the head of the delegation for japan, mr van baalen, as well as its individual members, for their cooperation and useful consultations. i would like to thank in particular his excellency the ambassador of japan to the european union, mr kojiro hosojiri, and his colleagues for their intensive cooperation. i also thank the main negotiators of the strategic agreement and their collaborators on both sides. as for the amendments that have come up at the last minute, i think that they do not need to be confirmed because we have reached such a level of unity in the foreign policy committee.
in writing. - as the world became intensely globalised and competitive, we need to create partnerships to better coordinate our future development and create value from doing things together. we are not only speaking about promoting shared values on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, but also about working together on very concrete challenges such as how to cope with an ageing society, create new sources of sustainable energy and develop synergies where we see opportunities for cooperation avoiding parallel development. i definitely consider today’s vote in parliament as a vote of confidence in the adoption of the agreement. we have expressed our absolute support for the successful conclusion of the current negotiations and emphasised the strategic and political relevance that such an agreement has for both the eu and japan. in conclusion, japan is by far the best and most suitable partner the eu can have in asia. my sincere wish is that the negotiating teams intensify their efforts to move forward with great dynamism, without neglecting the fundamental values both parties share, that they remain forward-looking and ambitiously oriented towards a common future, which may bring more peace and prosperity to our societies.
question asked by raising the blue card. madam president, you rightly pointed out that all the countries of so-called eastern europe have the right to decide their own future and their own relations. but i would like to ask you this: do you think that diplomacy is the only way to regulate our relations, european and western relations with russia, the use of sanctions, or can diplomacy also be something more substantive, something more long-term, something more in the interest of peace and stability on our continent?
it was a great pleasure, mr. prime minister, to hear your inspiring messages. we need your ambitious reform programme for a different europe. as a member of parliament from the neighbouring country of slovenia, where we have elections next sunday, i share your concern about economic growth even more. it's the only way to get jobs. we need a responsible european governance to eliminate the troika. we need to stop billions of euros from flowing into tax havens, expose and punish corruption. we must ensure safe living standards, especially for the unemployed, and strengthen solidarity. how can europe be an example to the world if people are dying on its shores? the big challenge will be to establish what you have called a new, humane immigration policy. slovenia was the first to offer italy assistance in the rescue operation of mare nostrum. where were the other countries? my country still has a very fresh memory of the feelings it felt when it joined the union. the enlargement of the western balkans must remain one of the priorities of your presidency. urgent reforms must be the key to success. we have an enormous responsibility, prime minister. we have to protect our people, our democracies. i don't want europe to be afraid of us in a few years' time or young people to turn their backs on it. i hope that europeans will once again have every reason to feel the soul of europe. that is our objective and i have every reason to be optimistic about your presidency.
yesterday's parliamentary elections in slovenia were won by the left party, which was founded 41 days ago, with 34 percent of the vote. we had early elections in 2011, when the winning party was formed 43 days before the election. this kind of electoral engineering is only possible in weak democracies. both election results are a direct consequence of the patrija judicial farce, which has coincided with the elections in slovenia for six years. but the recent election represents the culmination of the politicization of the judicial process. the opposition leader, john janša, was arrested three weeks before the elections, and without any evidence. he was supposed to have been promised a reward, but it is not known where, when, in what way, by whom, or what - nothing. now, by delaying, they're making it impossible for him to defend himself. in addition, five days before these elections, he was charged with contempt in two new trials. all this has affected the outcome of the parliamentary elections in slovenia, which cannot be said to be fair, free and legitimate. if we care about democracy and the rule of law, europe should act on the basis of the framework for the protection of the rule of law adopted in march.
a fair and functioning legal system is key to protecting people and realising their potential, but unfortunately slovenia is one of the eu member states where we have problems with this. the opposition leader, janez janša, was convicted and jailed on the basis of clues without evidence just before this year's national elections. his rights were violated because he was wrongfully convicted. unfortunately, such violations of fundamental rights or judicial errors are not uncommon in slovenia. a recent study by dr. lovro šturm, a former constitutional judge and professor at the faculty of law of the university of ljubljana, showed that between 2004 and last year, at least 1200 judges in 442 proceedings in slovenian courts violated human rights and fundamental freedoms. i am therefore very pleased that the european commission adopted a new framework for the protection of the rule of law in the european union in march this year, and i also call on it to apply it as soon as possible in order to improve the situation in slovenia in terms of the protection of human rights in judicial proceedings.
the rule of law works if its most important institutions enjoy the highest level of trust - unfortunately, this is not the case in slovenia. the lack of trust in the judiciary by citizens is a matter of great concern, and this is also confirmed by the european commission, which notes that the slovenian judiciary enjoys one of the lowest levels of trust when it comes to independence. in such circumstances, the leader of the largest opposition party has been removed from political office in a judicial process that has caused outrage among many legal experts. and that's the kind of situation that led to the election. the slovenian people want to live in a country that we trust, in a country where the courts are professional and independent, in a country where there will be no doubt that the institutions of the rule of law are being abused in order to remove political opponents. slovenia is part of the european union, where high democratic standards apply and we therefore expect them to be respected in slovenia as well.
today we heard the promise of the president, the future president of the commission, juncker, that europe needs a more active role in foreign policy. we had a lot of it now and mr fühle has shown a lot of initiative in his mandate. however, i think that at this moment, we should tackle the problem of how to stop the violence with all means. how to stop violence as a means of resolving conflict on either side. the second thing we have to do is to continue to support ukraine's democratic path of independence, ukraine's european path. and finally, because time is running out, it is wrong to see russia as a potential enemy, we must see russia as a neighbouring country, and we must establish dialogue with neighbouring countries, even when this is difficult.
we must also look at the ukrainian crisis in a geostrategic sense. russia has destabilized the region because of its geostrategic goals and interests. this is without regard to international law and the territorial integrity of states. putin famously said that the collapse of the soviet union was the greatest tragedy of the 20th century. so putinization is the re-establishment of the soviet empire. the european union has not been effective in the international arena in recent years. i hope that things will be different in the future, and i agree with mr plenkovic when he says that the ukrainian crisis is a real test for the future of the european union's security and foreign policy. we must immediately help the ukrainian people in every way so that they can become a permanent part of a civilization where human rights, freedom and democracy are the highest values, and russian policy must be given a clear message through more effective sanctions.
the world situation has changed considerably since the end of the cold war. today we have already realized that the ukrainian crisis has reawakened old russian geostrategic goals, china has long been imposing its military, political and economic dominance in many parts of the world. other areas are also growing stronger economically and demographically. the united states and the european union, the two most culturally related countries, are losing out on a global scale. if we agree to a free trade agreement with the united states, there will be tremendous benefits for everyone. more jobs, higher gdp and consequently more prosperity. we will remove systemic barriers and create a new space of free economy and democracy that will reverse the trend and make both the eu and the us more competitive. it is important, however, that europe also incorporates specific interests into the agreement, such as high standards of personal data protection, social solidarity, healthy food and the environment. therefore, let the eu-us alliance also become a strong alliance of values. it's the only way we can preserve our culture and our way of life for generations to come.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner andor for his very encouraging work in the previous mandate and for a number of positive initiatives for the benefit of young people. i also hope that the audience today, which is absolutely dominated by young people, will understand that we are genuinely interested in their problems and that we want to contribute to solving the problems and opening the way to a life of solid jobs and employment opportunities. in the previous mandate, we adopted, among other things, a guarantee scheme. i think it's right to upgrade it with enough resources, just like all the other instruments, because if we have only a lot of instruments and very little resources, then we're not going to do very much for the young people. i think it would also be good to have a report on the transparency of the use of funds on such occasions, perhaps this would contribute to greater efficiency.
on behalf of the alde group. innocent people are dying in gaza and israel again. those who die also die because they think their death benefits their cause, the diametrically opposite of the cause of the other side. we have again drawn up a resolution in the european parliament which we want to be seen in israel and on the palestinian side as politically correct, well-intentioned and balanced. as a contribution to the search for a solution to a long-standing dispute that not only burdens two nations entangled in conflict, but is again and again the focus of a conflict that has much broader dimensions. the fact that we have several wars and the scene of major humanitarian disasters in the same region of the middle east today does not diminish the drama of the latest developments around gaza. it is clear that the european union and its parliament cannot remain silent on the events in gaza and israel. the horrific crime of the murder of three young israelis, which was the immediate cause of the israeli army's retaliatory action, must be condemned without reservation. the response in the form of the murder of a young palestinian was no less reprehensible, a continuation of a story of violence that has repeatedly replaced faith in peace and peaceful settlement of disputes. we cannot accept a situation where incidents and attempts to resolve tensions follow one another in a continuous, malicious sequence. it cannot be overlooked that the tension and violence are the result of the fact that the middle east peace process has been at a standstill for years and that a situation is developing in the palestinian territories which increasingly makes impossible the only possible solution to the israeli-palestinian problem, two states living in peace and mutual recognition. neither hamas' terrorist attacks, nor the military demonstration of israeli forces, nor the permanent siege of gaza, nor the occupation of the west bank on the road to peace are acceptable.
there is a military-political conflict in ukraine, innocent people are dying in ukraine, innocent people are dying on a passenger plane, and the next victims are european farmers who are losing their market. the key to resolving this conflict and this crisis is to put diplomacy to the table and to end this military conflict as soon as possible and to find a political solution. as regards the measures in the agricultural sector, i welcome the measures prepared by the commission, i congratulate commissioner cioloşu and his team on these measures and i ask them to continue to monitor what is happening in these markets with the same vigilance, weekly, and to take similar measures as they have done so far. i myself strongly support the idea that the measures should be designed to stimulate the search for new markets and not to destroy products, but rather to give them to those who need them, as the measures envisage. so i welcome the measures, keep watching, and let the politicians find a political solution as soon as possible to end the military conflict.
in slovenia, we have already opposed on several occasions the non-transparent location of gas terminals in the gulf of trieste, on the direct border between slovenia and croatia. this is an area with a population of about one hundred thousand people, it is an area with two important ports - koper and trst - and it is an area marked by tourism. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the company was necessary to restore the viability of the company. therefore, we expect slovenia, italy and croatia to agree on the location of gas terminals and that the process will be carried out in accordance with european standards.
there are things we can quickly agree on in this parliament and reach consensus on. one is that the association agreement with ukraine is fair and should be supported. i'll personally support him. the other thing is that we live in a time when the people who elected us are very concerned and are watching with concern whether we are able to have a dialogue and a debate in the european parliament that will strengthen what they care about most - peace, development, overcoming poverty, efficiency when it comes to the problems that arise in their lives. i'm afraid that what this debate has shown is that we haven't really learned much from history, that for many people the language of the cold war is closer to home than the language of some collective, inclusive thinking. i think the european parliament should be someone who contributes to this kind of thinking.
for the peace and well-being of all people in ukraine that is what we are striving for. in support of sovereignty, in support of a political solution, in support of an end to aggression, in support of economic recovery. by ratifying the association agreement, we are taking an active responsibility for the modernisation of the country, political and economic reforms. so that europe's money really reaches those who need it most - pensioners, small entrepreneurs, families with children. i am particularly pleased that we have included mobility in the agreement. we are removing another obstacle to ukraine's entry into a visa-free regime, and this is what people feel most, most tangibly, to strengthen people-to-people contacts. my dear colleagues, the ratification of the agreement is proof that we care about the thousands of innocent victims who had to die. it's our debt. that we stand with those who suffer most in ukraine today.
in writing. months ago i wrote and spoke about the kremlin's geostrategic plans, which go far beyond crimea. putin has no respect for the world order, territorial sovereignty, international law and fundamental human rights. i was looking forward to the implementation of the trade agreement with ukraine. by delaying its implementation, we have, in a sense, once again cloned putin. we are also to blame for russia's military intervention in ukraine and its territorial expansion, for not ensuring its secure future in the north atlantic alliance in 2008. i'm convinced that putin can't win this war in the long run. if he continues on the path he has charted, russia will be a lonely country in a few years and a great economic and social disaster. but the consequences will be dire for us too, and they will be worse if we hesitate to impose more decisive sanctions and all-round aid to ukraine.
in writing. – the association agreement between the eu and ukraine will definitely mark a turning point for ukraine. finally, the will of the people of ukraine has been recognised. with our support, the european parliament has given consent to an agreement which should have been signed already back in 2013, when the then president yanukovych unilaterally changed the agenda for his country. i hope this agreement means the start of many reforms ukraine will have to endeavour to bring about in the next years, but most importantly, that we share with ukraine our fundamental values of democracy, human rights, peaceful co-existence, human dignity and the rule of law. even though full implementation will take some time, until the ratification process is concluded and trade barriers are finally lifted, our commitment to the citizens of ukraine stays untouched: the future for the people of ukraine is european.
in writing. – the association agreement between the eu and ukraine will definitely mark a turning point for ukraine. finally, the will of the people of ukraine has been recognised. with our support, the european parliament has given consent to an agreement which should have been signed already back in 2013, when the then president yanukovych unilaterally changed the agenda for his country. i hope this agreement means the start of many reforms ukraine will have to endeavour to bring about in the next years, but most importantly, that we share with ukraine our fundamental values of democracy, human rights, peaceful co-existence, human dignity and the rule of law. even though full implementation will take some time, until the ratification process is concluded and trade barriers are definitely lifted, our commitment to the citizens of ukraine stays untouched: the future for the people of ukraine is european.
in slovenia, research shows that the lack of jobs for young people is the biggest factor in poverty. as a result, 75% of young people are even willing to move abroad. secondly, when we offered a guarantee scheme at european level, many complained that six or seven billion euros was not enough. today, we find that only two countries are already successfully drawing on this money. this is further proof that administrative measures do not help if the bureaucracy is inefficient. but otherwise, i think the european commission should take action against governments that don't stick to their agreements. thirdly, youth unemployment is only the result of a real problem that lies primarily in our economies. smes and micro-enterprises account for 85% of jobs, so we need to create the conditions, the favourable conditions, and put in place incentives to get more young people to start their own businesses. it's better than giving money to national bureaucracies.
when i visited gaza in my last mandate, which is very much like a concentration camp, i was walking along the beach where a group of children playing football had recently been shot dead. after the tragedy in gaza, the resolution we are talking about is a belated expression of our discomfort and helplessness. we are committed to a lasting solution to the conflict based on mutual recognition and respect within the framework of two sovereign states within the 1967 borders. the aggressive settlement of palestinian territories has furthered this goal. until israel and the palestinians agree on how to live as neighbors, we will accept similar documents and settle for the status quo. this means new casualties on both sides and the destruction of what the european union and the international community have helped to build up after the bombing. the israeli-palestinian conflict cannot be resolved by arms, but by respect for international law and by peace talks, and without delay.
your predecessor as chairman missed an opportunity to give a chance to a democratic debate that would have earned the name "catch the eye" and didn't give me the floor. i regret this and hope that this instrument will actually become an instrument of dialogue in parliament, rather than of recitations and monologues.
i think it is right that we take seriously the human rights situation in azerbaijan, as well as in other countries with a comparable status. i think one jailed human rights activist and one jailed journalist is one too many. and i also urge the azerbaijani authorities to show a little more sensitivity to human rights, but at the same time i would like to stress that azerbaijan is a very specific country, subject to pressure from both russia and iran, and that it is also an extremely important strategic partner for us. i think it's right that we help this country, especially with its most difficult problem, the problem of occupation of nagorno-karabakh. neither the european parliament nor the european union as a whole has done enough.
in writing. – after the ratification of the eu-ukraine agreement on tuesday, ukraine decided that the direction it wants to take in future is europe. therefore, we call on russia to respect this decision and back the peace plan offered by ukraine. i very much support the call for member states to act coherently and ban arms and military equipment sales to russia.
in writing. i agree that the international community has underestimated the ebola outbreak, which is now a global security challenge. the risk of collapse for the affected countries also requires the consideration of the use of military means under the un flag and the reinforcement of the fight against the virus. in addition to financial resources, operational capacity, including trained human resources and logistical equipment, is urgently needed to isolate and treat patients. meps therefore call on the un security council to examine, together with the affected countries, the possibility of using military and civil protection means under the leadership of the secretary-general of the world organisation. parliament called on the commission to assess the needs and plans for individual countries to deploy trained medical staff, mobile laboratories, equipment, protective clothing and treatment centres. eu member states should coordinate flights and establish dedicated air bridges, and the african union should be encouraged to develop a comprehensive action plan, given the complexity of the ebola crisis and its political, security, economic and social implications. meps call on the member states and the commission to coordinate and strengthen health research and the production of effective medicines and vaccines and to promote progress in clinical trials. however, a clear distinction should be made between testing the vaccine and treating the infected person, and the relevant applicable world health organisation rules should be respected.
in writing. – we urgently need to find a way of identifying common denominators to solve the conflict. regarding the inter-religious dialogue, at the theological level there is little dialogue. but on the other hand at the level of citizens, there is a strong need for it. there the governments of eu member states should understand the conflict as a global issue in which europe should take an important share of responsibility, most importantly in the protection of christian minorities and overall promotion of human dignity. the conflict has a european dimension. solidarity is needed and we will not be able to ‘do more europe’ with less overall sense of our own identity. i absolutely support the proposal that we call for a stop to the flow of material and financial resources to islamic state, and urge the un to impose an arms embargo and asset freeze with more effective enforcement.
i congratulate the italian presidency on organising this important conference in milan, where youth unemployment has once again been high on the agenda. it will certainly have some positive effect, although we know what it is like when heads of government and heads of state meet. however, i am less and less pleased that the member states are not using all the possibilities, all the resources they have to combat youth unemployment - not even european unemployment. the bureaucratic mills are slowly being turned in the member states, only two countries are known to have taken advantage, to take full advantage of the guarantee scheme. it is a good sign when the commissioner talks about education, when he looks for ways to tackle youth unemployment - that is good. the key question remains who should create jobs. administrative measures will not create productive jobs for young people. this is not the natural way, the natural way is to create better conditions for entrepreneurship.
thank you for your words, mr. chairman. the achievements of the barroso ii commission are outstanding and i am confident that the european council will also take a positive view of them. already president barroso, in his closing speech today, mentioned that with a number of mechanisms and measures, such as the european rescue mechanism, the european semester, the six, the double package, etc., we have made a decisive contribution to the fact that europe is now almost out of the crisis and has become, most importantly, even more resilient to such shocks, as we have put in place the appropriate firewalls. that's why we have a safer banking sector and a stronger euro. in addition, we have introduced several additional incentives for smes, which are the backbone of the european economy. but despite the crisis, we have increased our investment in culture, education and youth. i'll just mention erasmus, which is a very good one. if the european union during barossa ii was more oriented towards consolidating the union internally, this juncker mandate will be about positioning ourselves in the international environment. the russian invasion of ukraine has upset the balance of power to the detriment of europe. one of the european union's priorities must be to establish a trade agreement with the united states as soon as possible. moreover, we must open the door to the enlargement process, to the balkan countries as well as to moldova, georgia and ukraine. one of the priorities must also be the energy independence from russia. finally, the new juncker commission will also have to monitor more closely the application of the rule of law in the member states, so that no political prisoner like janez jansa in slovenia will ever appear on its soil again. - thank you. - thank you.
mr. chairman, thank you for your time. the budget debate exposes the double-talk used by the states. at home, they highlight the benefits and importance of investment in job creation, and then at european level in the council, they reduce the investment expenditure that the european union needs today more than ever. in particular, i believe it is important to keep sufficient funds in the 2015 budget for research, innovation and education to keep the european union at the forefront of this field, to create quality jobs and to be competitive in the global economy. growth in the european union can only be achieved through structural reforms and therefore we need well-planned resources. the council's proposal undermines the credibility of the european union and is in breach of the agreements reached. at the end of last year, a new, significantly lower multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 was adopted. parliament supported it on condition that member states ensure that there will no longer be recurrent delays in payments which make it impossible for the european commission to meet its legal and financial commitments. the council's proposed amendments are not in the spirit of this agreement. in fact, we already know today that with such a proposal, we will be talking about the backlog again at the end of the second year. this also makes it necessary to consider additional revenue from own resources, which has so far remained at the level of fines and default interest. - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you very much, madam president. our common european idea is based on the universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity, on the principles of democracy and the rule of law, and when serious violations occur, it is our common duty to demand action. it saddens me that today we are talking about hungary again because of these accusations. we are witnessing new developments that are causing concern and unease, to mention only the area of media freedom. the taxation of advertising revenues of large media outlets, which was passed by the hungarian parliament, is a threat to independent journalism. the measure will hit the most popular foreign commercial tv channel, which has often been critical of the orban government in its programming. similarly, the authorities have heavily interfered with the work of many independent non-governmental organisations. the worst hit was again those who were most critical of the authorities. and i'm not just talking about hungary, i should also mention the events in slovenia. a journalist for a prominent newspaper has been prosecuted in my country for publishing allegedly classified information about the links between a far-right neo-nazi group and an opposition party. the prosecution accuses her of endangering national security, while the journalist acted in the public interest. her pursuit is inadmissible. what will the european commission do, i ask, to protect the fundamental rights of democracy, not only in hungary but throughout the european union? i'd like a more specific answer to that. thank you so much.
thank you so much. mr president juncker, future commissioners, the new european commission is here. the combinatorics was complicated, tedious, unpredictable. and i'm also very stressed out about the slovenian candidate, which i'm sorry about. but i believe that this has been a lesson for my country and for the european commission, and a clear signal that the choice of commissioner requires wisdom. the european commissioner is not just a politician, not just an expert, not just a visionary, but a combination of all of these. his real value is in his discretion, judgment, and determination. the commission before us is not ideal. it expresses the compromise we are capable of at this moment. however, i hope that most of the commissioners in it are personally and socially responsible and are willing to work hard to create a home for europeans where we feel valued, safe and wanted. because that was also the basic message of the european voters. we parliamentarians remain committed to them, and as well-functioning gatekeepers, we will keep a watchful eye on the commission. you are the team that is planning our future and the future of our children, and never forget that. we want nothing more than kind words from you, mr juncker, and not from the team. we want proposals that we will support with a clear conscience and the awareness that we are once again steering the european train to the top of the mountain of success. i wish you all the best of luck. thank you so much.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few words about the council discharge report, which is the subject of this evening's debate. i was president of the slovenian court of auditors for nine years and when i read the excellent report by my colleague deutsch, i could not believe my eyes and was really surprised. so the council does not want to cooperate with parliament in its discharge, does not want to explain how it spends taxpayers' money and builds many buildings, a huge egg-shaped building that is supposed to have cost 330 million euros so far. but it does not give any precise breakdown of final or actual costs, and the question is whether the council itself should not also be the world's example of financial transparency and the first in openness, an example also for all other institutions in sound financial management and accountability, not only of course for parliament but also for the wider public. and what's hidden in that building, in that egg, of course, the windows on all sides, and we're still in the dark about the clarity of the costs that have been spent. i understand, from what we've heard, that this is a long and complicated story and that it involves this old gentleman's agreement, but of course it has to be said that the world has changed terribly since then, at least the expectations of financial accountability and transparency are much higher, and of course the public also demands as much transparency as possible. the central institutions of the european union must set an example for others and, of course, strive to be credible in the eyes of taxpayers and voters. and so, of course, as long as this is the case and as long as the council is acting in this way, our whole group will vote against granting discharge to the council for the 2012 financial year, and the following year and the year after that, unless the council changes its tactics, and i think that italy has a historic opportunity here to take a step forward. and i think there's a way out of this, and of course, where there's a will, there's a way. - thank you. - thank you.
mr. chairman, thank you for your time. new times present new challenges, but they require prescribed approaches to discharge. transparency in our work is very important, because only then will we be able to increase citizens' trust in the european union. the european parliament, the council and the commission also concluded an interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline, cooperation in budgetary matters and sound financial management. the agreement is thus binding on all the institutions. the problem now is that for several years now the court has consistently found that the council has failed to provide any further answers to the court's recommendations. we are again faced with a situation where the council has still not informed us and prepared a written explanation on the use of budgetary funds for the purchase of the residence palace building. nor did it explain what measures would be taken during the construction of the europe building, nor did it provide a more detailed account of the costs incurred so far and other financial statements in this respect. these are just some examples which demonstrate that the council is not cooperating and is not taking account of the opinions and requests of the court of auditors and the european parliament. this situation is not sending a good signal to the citizens of the union. parliament has already refused discharge for 2009, 2010 and 2011 and now, again for more or less the same reasons, which have been explained here several times, we are refusing to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2012. the council must and may do so in the spirit of a good steward, but the use of these funds must be controlled. the council must be aware of this and must therefore start to cooperate. we have a duty to ascertain all the facts relevant to the correct decision on discharge, and we must first ascertain with equal diligence whether the council is indeed spending the funds correctly, and the council must give us true, correct and complete information. but the council is not involved. it seems that we do not have the right instruments to encourage the council to cooperate, to present and explain to us everything we ask. the work of all the institutions, i repeat, must be transparent, but they must also cooperate smoothly.
while member states are allowed to regulate and prescribe their own tax areas, this creates an excessive disparity between member states and distorts competition in the market and weakens the budgets of some member states. in slovenia too, we are faced with the problem of the outflow of revenues and the headquarters of companies from slovenia to countries with more favourable tax rates. sometimes companies also choose a fictitious mode of operation for these purposes, which means that they establish a company's headquarters in a member state with a more favourable tax rate, but do not actually operate there. while the documents show a business, in reality it is only the outflow of money from a company in slovenia to companies or branches established in a country with favorable tax rates. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the transfer pricing rules are applicable to the transfer pricing of the assets of the companies in question. it is urgently necessary to regulate this area so that tax schemes are no longer exploited.
i also welcome the report of the european court of auditors and i think it is extremely important that this institution annually reviews the regularity and efficiency of the use of european funds. but i would like to point out something: the management of the eu budget could of course be much better than it is. the court of auditors has also found this to be the case. above all, we must make the budget easier to manage by making the objectives clearer and the rules simpler. and this seems to me to be one of the essential guidelines for the commission's further work. it would also be good to look at those rules which are too complicated and which do not allow for the wise use of public funds and which become a hindrance rather than an incentive, because no rules will ever be able to prevent bad intentions from being violated and circumvented, and many rules can prevent the good intentions from being respected, so i also propose... (the president was interrupted by the speaker. )
on behalf of the verts/ale group. the association agreement between the european union and moldova provides for the creation of a comprehensive free trade area, which will certainly contribute to deeper economic and political cooperation between the european union and moldova. the republic of moldova is a country of just over four million inhabitants, many of whom also live and work abroad. the reason, of course, is both economic and political. this is emigration, which also plays an important role in the domestic situation in moldova. the money earned abroad and sent home by expatriates contributes to about 38% of moldova's gdp, and for this reason, of course, we greens have also tabled an amendment to give moldovan expatriates the right to participate in elections, because only in this way can the upcoming parliamentary elections in november be conducted in accordance with the highest european and international standards. the media also contribute to a transparent and democratic electoral process. they must be objective and provide fair and equal access to the media for all political groups during the electoral campaign. the problem is that there is pressure from one side or the other, and here the role of european observers from various organisations, including parliament, will also be to keep a watchful eye on this democratic process. in order to become more independent and self-reliant, the republic of moldova needs to transform its existing energy plan. it needs to focus on more efficient and renewable energy sources, as this is the only way to become energy independent from russia, which is their largest supplier in this area. and that is why i am calling on you, honourable members, to vote against the epp proposal to delete the fourth amendment tabled by the greens/efa on energy, which was adopted by the afet committee. and it is this amendment that is encouraging moldova to reduce its energy dependence on russia, which is also the wish of the european union. it is therefore important to strengthen the stability of moldova at all levels of institutions that ensure democracy, the rule of law and good governance. and of course we are aware that this association agreement or this agreement is very important for the upcoming elections and here we express our full support for the highest possible standards in ensuring equality for all in the elections.
when the berlin wall fell, we could not have imagined that changes to democracy, the market economy, the rule of law and friendly neighbourly relations would be so difficult to achieve. in eastern europe, the aggressive kremlin policies of recent years have made this difficult. so the people of moldova who are striving for a european path are still under great pressure today. the republic of moldova has long announced its european perspective. it is gradually reforming, and it is known that moldova was the first of the eastern partnership countries to fulfil all the conditions for visa liberalisation with the eu. its citizens no longer need a visa to enter schengen, which is particularly important for young people. this is why moldova is on the right path towards the european union. i am very pleased that we are ratifying today the association agreement, including the free trade agreement. but all of this will have to be put into practice as soon as possible. the first step towards this is the victory of the pro-european forces in the november elections. and we know which moldovan political forces are pro-european.
in writing. moldova marks a new milestone in its relations with the eu by ratifying the agreement today. the agreement, including the free trade and visa waiver sections, represents the three pillars of the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries, with moldova being the first to successfully establish all three. today's agreement thus presents a number of opportunities for moldova, and full implementation will only be successful if the state implements adjustments and reforms in a way that the citizens feel the effects. they can expect more consumer rights, safer food, better health care, and with more energy diversity and savings, lower heating costs. the agreement brings important positive changes in the areas of justice, the rule of law and more transparent oversight of public administrations and institutions. the agreement with the european union will help moldova to integrate into the internal market, while enhancing trade and business opportunities, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, will contribute to long-term economic recovery and growth. the european parliament has thus sent an important message to the moldovans - the doors of europe are open to you. the national elections at the end of the month will determine whether the country will gravitate towards europe or towards russia in the future. i believe that the moldovans can succeed and create an even more social, open, fair and modern society, and we can help them do so. the future of moldova is within the european family.
mr president, i was pleased to endorse today's association agreement with the republic of moldova. as a member of parliament for the czech republic, i remember how eu membership also helped us. the reasons that have been discussed here are two main ones: first, the economic reason that will boost trade between the eu and moldova, and then mainly those political reasons that clearly show that moldova has a path to the eu, and so has an alternative alongside, let's say, its paths, which would otherwise probably head east into the arms of russia. but i think we should strengthen cooperation in the future, even beyond the issues covered by the association agreement. as a former minister of justice of the czech republic, i have myself had several talks with the moldovan ministers of justice on the reform of the judiciary and the judicial system, and this is a topic where we could significantly support the building of the rule of law and the legal system in moldova in the future. i think this country deserves it, and that help should be all-round, and we should build good relationships. i congratulate moldova on today's move.
i was very happy to support this association agreement myself. i come from slovenia and, like other colleagues, i remember the time when we were approaching the european union ourselves. i would also be happy to support the free trade area for fruit, where we have this issue in the committee on agriculture. as a shadow reporter, i'll do whatever it takes to get this back on track. i am also a farmer-gambler myself, and yet i will support this because i know what it means to a man, to people, to be able to trade freely and to be able to achieve economic success through their work and also to achieve their dignity. and today, on this point about moldova, we weren't talking about whether europe wants to colonize moldova or russia will colonize moldova, but we were talking about making a better life for the people of moldova. we are here for the people, and that is why i was happy to support this resolution.
in writing. - almost half of moldovans live and work abroad. the reason for this is the poor economic situation in the country and the consequent lack of jobs. the money emigrants earn abroad and send home contributes about 38 percent of moldova's gdp. for this reason, we have tabled an amendment to the greens to give moldovan emigrants the right to participate in elections. only in this way will the upcoming parliamentary elections in november be able to be conducted in accordance with the highest european and international standards. in addition, the greens are committed to a transparent and more objective media, which will allow fair and equal access to the media for all political groups during the election campaign. in order to become more independent and self-sufficient, the government of the republic of moldova needs to revamp the existing energy plan. it is important that it focuses on more efficient and renewable energy sources. only then will it become energy independent from russia, which is their largest supplier in this area. it is important to strengthen the stability of moldova, its independence and the effectiveness of all institutions ensuring democracy, the rule of law and good governance. a system to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms is needed. for the reasons set out above, i supported the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
in writing. - northern ireland has been the scene of decades of conflict between protestants and catholics, claiming more than 3,500 lives. in 1998, the government signed an agreement called the good friday agreement. the political institutions established under the good friday agreement are functioning successfully and the european parliament wishes to see them continue to do so. the progress made so far in northern ireland is a positive example of conflict resolution based on partnership, consensus and the principle of equality. the european union has been one of the key actors in providing northern ireland with assistance in its recovery from years of conflict and unrest. the political support of the european commission and the provision of european financial resources have helped to improve cooperation between the two sides in northern ireland as well as economic development. the european parliament and the commission will continue their activities in northern ireland to date with a view to further securing the peace process. i personally see reconciliation between different communities as a very important factor contributing to the building of a peaceful and stable society. in addition, this has a positive impact on the economic and social development of the region. i am in favour of continuing the peace process in northern ireland and thus the peace programme for the period 2014-2020. for the reasons stated above, i supported the resolution on the northern ireland peace process.
i was happy to support the resolution on cyprus, because this week we were speaking at the 75th meeting of the turkey-europe interparliamentary committee on turkey's rapprochement with europe. this motion for a resolution, or the cyprus problem, has also occupied this committee very much, and my vote for this resolution was a vote for a peaceful policy in europe, a vote for a settlement of the situation between turkey and cyprus, a vote for a settlement between the southern and the southern parts of cyprus and finally a vote for the integration of cyprus, which i believe will also solve many of the problems in this part of europe in the long term. but it is also a voice for the softening of relations between turkey and the european community, because we are concerned not only about cyprus but also about the acute problems in iraq and syria, and it is right that we should focus on these relations in this europe-turkey relationship.
in writing. - south sudan has declared a level 3 emergency, the worst humanitarian crisis in the world. we must be aware of the difficult situation that is taking place and not stand by and be a silent observer. since mid-december 2013, 1.5 million people have been displaced from their homes. more than 450,000 refugees have fled south sudan and are seeking refuge in neighboring countries. the latest estimate of the humanitarian needs is 6.9 million people. despite the signing of the ceasefire agreement, the fighting continues. international organizations estimate that four million people in south sudan suffer from food shortages. sadly, access to help for those in need is still hampered by hatred and violence. if we don't act, the crisis could escalate and take additional lives. respect for international humanitarian law and international human rights law is required. humanitarian organisations must be given access and the civilian population must be protected. i strongly condemn the human rights violations and abuses. assistance at all levels is urgently needed and desired. i therefore join and support the european parliament resolution on the humanitarian situation in south sudan. this, i believe, is important to publicly condemn the events and to call on all concerned to actively work to improve the current situation.
the world is not the same as it was in 2000 or five years ago. the more we become aware of our growing global interdependence, the greater our shared responsibility for global development. the sdgs only make sense if they are followed by globally coordinated action. i am pleased that in his report, the rapporteur, mr stier, has strongly emphasised that we must tackle poverty and other challenges at their roots. charity concerts, resolutions and the occasional political visit aren't enough. a common strategy and political cooperation based on respect for human dignity and group identities and their human and natural resources are needed. both must be geared towards improving governance in crisis areas and at the global level. the european union is negotiating partnership agreements with several major players in this world. it would also be appropriate for new agreements to reflect a willingness to share responsibility for global development and, above all, a commitment to work for lasting peace. i propose that health should be included among the priorities of strategic partnership cooperation with greater ambition in the future.
the accelerated absorption of cohesion funds, especially in the area of environmental and transport infrastructure, gave a boost to the construction sector in 2013 and 2014, which, for example, in the republic of slovenia, contributed significantly to the country's exit from recession. the same was true in many other member states, where cohesion funds accounted for 20 to 80% of all public investment. new road links, high-speed railways, new water pipelines, wastewater treatment plants, rural broadband, business zones, technology parks - these are cohesion policy measures which, in addition to the free movement of people, goods and services, the single currency, the euro, have proved to be key building blocks of the european idea, the european community. and that is the europe our citizens want. the european people's party group has been pointing out for some time that we are already at the beginning of the new cohesion period 2014-2020 with huge backlogs, which will also result in a withdrawal in 2014. the impact will continue in 2015 due to possible complications in the adoption of operational programmes and the consequent lower use of funds. we therefore expect and call on the new commissioner, the european commission, to make cohesion policy a key policy in its programme and to address as soon as possible in cooperation with the member states these backlogs in the adoption of operational programmes. do this, do something for a common europe.
in writing. for some member states, including slovenia, european funds are almost the only development resource that can help to realise important investment projects and create new jobs in times of crisis. this is why any delay in the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 will be all the more dangerous for the european economy during this period. all the partnership agreements and operational programmes should be adopted by the end of the year, but there are serious doubts, based on what has been seen and heard, that all the operational programmes will be ready for adoption by the european commission by the end of the year. if this happens, there will be major delays in the implementation of cohesion policy, and our entrepreneurs and, consequently, eu citizens will suffer. in the future, i would like to be more proactive and responsible in the planning, proposing and adopting of partnership agreements and operational programmes. the commission, together with the member states, must do everything possible to avoid this black scenario. immediately after that, we must urgently address the delays in eu payments we are facing this year. this is unacceptable, but that's another topic.
question asked by raising the blue card. my question is that it is necessary to specify where those possibilities are where these procedures can be simplified. i am deeply convinced that public procurement in particular is one of the areas where small businesses have the most difficulty, and this is one of the areas where there is a lot of confusion in europe. differences between countries. and it's only right that it be simplified. does the member agree?
at the end of each part-session, the european parliament considers the situation of fundamental rights in third countries. in this way, we show our sympathy for regions that have problems with respect for human dignity. but within the european union we are faced with violations of fundamental human rights. even in my home country of slovenia. and not just anyone. without any concrete evidence, someone who was supposed to get the promised reward was locked up for two years. not a reward, a promise of a reward for some business. this is not some kind of a freak show. he is the former president of the european council and two-time prime minister and current leader of the opposition, janez janša. everyone knows that the verdict will be overturned in the end. but the fact remains. at the heart of the european union, there is a political prisoner who has been detained for 158 days. in ljubljana, people protest every day in front of the supreme court. they demand judicial reform with lustration and the release of john janša. and they expect help from europe.
on the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, we can see that many promises remain unfulfilled in the countries on the eastern side of the iron curtain and that the path of dismantling totalitarian systems in slovenia is still not finished. this year, slovenia also commemorates the 25th anniversary of the founding of demos, which was the central actor in shaping the general national consensus on the independence and democratization of slovenia. in slovenia, despite membership of the european union and nato, we are still facing a failed transition, which is most evident in the state of the slovenian judiciary, which is the main obstacle to the establishment of a free, fair and democratic society. the european commission has already stressed that the state of the slovenian justice system is unsatisfactory. the slovenian government has not carried out any lustration and the top judicial positions are occupied by people who grossly violated human rights under the previous regime. all of this makes it seem that the berlin wall is still standing in slovenia.
i'd like to raise a question about the wisdom of changing to daylight saving time. after europe started to move clocks around in winter and summer time a few decades ago, the main purpose of this measure was primarily to save energy. today, progress has brought about different lifestyles, adjustments in the economy, agriculture, industry, transportation, and these are no longer so dependent on summer time. energy savings have also been found, as what is saved in the evening is used up in the morning, so many countries in asia, africa and south america have stopped this summertime switchover. our citizens are generally critical of this issue because it's a disruption of sleep routine and a difficult adjustment to the impact on well-being. i therefore call on the commission to conduct an in-depth discussion on this matter and to determine the appropriateness of this measure.
thank you very much for the floor, honourable member, honourable member and colleague, commissioner thyssen. when we adopted the objectives for the future, strategy 2020, we were very optimistic and ambitious. however, in these circumstances, with some countries still recovering from the economic crisis, we have moved away from these objectives, but we must not forget them either. such high levels of youth unemployment are unacceptable for a developed europe, and all policies in europe must be geared towards changing this and reassuring young people of their future. social and economic policy are of course very important, but equally important is a healthy economy, which is the only source of jobs. we must therefore focus our efforts on ensuring that the economy is in a healthy condition. it is also a fact that those countries that have successfully implemented structural reforms are on a better track to reach their goals more quickly. but we do not want a two-speed europe, so it is important that we stick together here too. and there's something else that i think is of the utmost importance. in times of prosperity, we sometimes forget our core values on which europe is built, and we must bear this in mind when we implement our social policy.
in writing. i believe that the eu-canada pnr agreement should provide for better protection of passengers' personal data. in particular, it is necessary to limit the purpose of use, the right of access, the time limit for storage and the amount of data. it is necessary to set very strict rules and restrictions for the transmission of such data to third parties and to allow for independent review and legal control of the data. there are serious doubts about the legality of such an agreement. the mass collection and storage of data on air passengers without any reasonable grounds for suspecting them violates fundamental human rights. furthermore, we have no evidence that this kind of data collection helps prevent terrorism, as some claim. the legal services of the eu institutions, the eu agency for fundamental rights and the data protection supervisor have also drawn attention to the problem and potential human rights violations. the european parliament should not agree to an agreement which is not in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights. for the reasons stated above, i supported the procedure to refer the agreement to the european court of justice for review before the european parliament proceeds with a possible decision on whether to give its consent to the agreement.
in writing. i supported the resolution entitled 'the post-2015 development framework: eradicating poverty and protecting human rights'. eradicating poverty, combating inequalities, protecting human rights and sustainable health systems are some of the key objectives listed in the resolution on the post-2015 development framework. the resolution, proposed by the committee on development, states that poverty eradication and the protection of human rights should be the main pillars of the post-2015 development framework. the year 2015 will be the european year of development and also the year in which the millennium development goals set by the united nations in 2000 are to be followed by a new global framework for the period after 2015.
in writing. since 2010, the number of unemployed people who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion has been steadily increasing. the labour market situation is particularly critical for young people, regardless of their level of education, as they often find themselves in precarious employment relationships and unpaid traineeships. targeted social investments should play a key role in the resolution of the crisis in the member states. these are crucial to achieving the europe 2020 objectives in the employment, education and social fields. member states should focus on sectors that are growing and creating new jobs, such as the green sector. the most vulnerable need to be given access to jobs and adequate social security. there is a need to establish effective control of good practices, models and methods in europe. member states need to adopt a more ambitious and concrete approach to implementing the european union's objectives at national level. this is particularly true for employment, poverty reduction and education. in addition, cooperation with the social partners, who can coordinate the interests of employers and employees, is very welcome. as unemployment is a very hot topic in slovenia too, i supported the resolution and hope that the member states and other institutions or organisations involved will take it into account with a view to improving the situation.
in writing. after 18 days of coordination and months after the commission had prepared its 2014 budget amendment proposals, the council failed to present a coordinated negotiating position for the 2014 budget rebalance, which would have allowed the commission to make payments for european projects already completed. this means that the project promoters, farmers, researchers and other groups will continue to wait for the payment of funds for services already provided. the council also failed to present a negotiating position for the procedure for adopting the 2015 budget, which must be completed by the end of this year if the future budget is to be implemented in twelve instalments or if the available funds are to be very limited. the fact is that, among other things, as much as 80% of agricultural subsidies must be paid in february 2015 and there is also a high risk that the payment obligations from the structural funds, which have been in place since october 2014, will not be paid at the beginning of the following year. the matter is simple: we must pay what we owe. it is unacceptable that the council has spent so much time trying to solve its problems, instead of taking up its share of responsibility in a timely manner towards the citizens of the european union, the european commission and, last but not least, the european parliament.
we know that thousands of people die in the mediterranean every year, and we do nothing. the refugees are forced to flee because of war, violence, poverty, as your colleague mentioned, and we have repeatedly stressed, as we have heard today, that the mediterranean must not become a graveyard, and yet it seems to me that we are waiting for another tragedy before anything changes. the commissioner is facing a very serious challenge in devising a common asylum and migration policy that will truly serve its purpose - the dignity of people seeking a future. i therefore call on the council and the commission to step up their efforts to establish a more effective, comprehensive migration policy, based on solidarity and genuinely humane. we must ensure that migrants have safe passage to europe and that there are sufficient legal options for all those who really want to do so. the thousands of deaths, 20,000 in the last 20 years, remind us every year of how asylum systems in europe actually work, and i really hope... (the president cut off the speaker)
banks are very much on our timetables, on our agenda. we talk about them a lot, and i thank both rapporteurs for their extremely good work. we can all probably agree that the global crisis that is slowly taking hold in some european union countries has been largely the result of mismanagement in the banks. i'm talking about a banking system that wasn't well managed, much less well controlled. and because we don't want history to repeat itself, it's essential that the ecb is the guardian and protector of the interests of all of us, consumers, whether they are savers, businesses, state banks, whoever. if we want an efficient system, we need the right levers. the regulations offer these levers for greater efficiency in the control of operations, and that is good. but on the other hand, increased powers also require greater transparency, which we all expect.
in writing. - i voted for resolution on the powers of the european central bank to impose sanctions. the original regulation, adopted in november 1998, needs to be amended to take into account that the scope of the ecb’s powers has been extended concerning the prudential supervision of credit institutions (single supervisory mechanism). the ecb recommendation includes amendments to the scope of the regulation, procedural rules, and publication of sanctions and limits of sanctions, among others.
in writing. the international conference in lima, peru, in december should prepare global partners to forge an ambitious agreement in paris next year to help the world meet its goal of keeping global warming below 2°c. meps recalled in the resolution the commitment of the ec and member state leaders to increase funding for the un green climate fund to provide it with $100 billion a year by 2020. as the resolution of the committee on the environment states, the agreement should contain clear mitigation, adaptation and implementation measures to achieve a strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2050.
in writing. the climate conference in lima, 1-12 december 2014, is a milestone in the negotiations for a new international climate agreement. in that resolution, the european parliament called for a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2050. the fact is that we are witnessing climate change that has been occurring for decades and is having a major negative impact on nature and people around the world. many areas are threatened by melting ice and the resulting rise in water levels. ecosystems are being destroyed, and the amount of drinking water is being reduced. all of this negatively affects people's lives, their health, their access to food and drinking water. if we continue to release greenhouse gases into the air, the atmosphere will warm, causing changes in the land, oceans and atmosphere in all regions of the world. if we don't change anything and stop doing this, the average temperature of the atmosphere will rise by five degrees celsius by the end of the century. for this reason, work on renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and emission reductions is needed. the climate has a major impact on people's quality of life, which is why i supported the resolution calling for improvements to the current situation.
mr. president, ms. high representative, first of all, i'd like to thank you for your frank, open and, i would say, very lucid presentation, also quite confident. i'd like you to stay that way for the rest of your term. i also want to support you when you mentioned the arab states initiative, the peace initiative. i think we're going to have to go back to this document as one of the foundations and the framework for a peaceful solution to the problem. we here in the european parliament yesterday postponed taking a position until the recognition of a palestinian state. i would say that it is more than obvious that we politicians are falling behind our public and behind the voters who want a faster peace, a faster solution, a lasting solution to security in the middle east, both for israel and for its arab neighbors, and for us. the status quo is unacceptable, it leads to an escalation of violence, it emboldened the arrogance of the israeli government and it humiliates the palestinians. recognizing a palestinian state may not be the only, or even the optimal move at this point, but it will help create the momentum of the process that is now in place. if israel and the palestinians want it, this dynamic will lead to a solution. finally, i would like to inform you that on friday the slovenian parliament will also discuss the recognition of palestine and i can personally say that i am optimistic about this, that i expect slovenia to go down this path.
i have listened to you very carefully, madam vice president, and i strongly support your courageous efforts to find a negotiated solution to peace and harmony in the middle east. it is high time that we discuss the recognition of a palestinian state here in the european parliament. i'm aware of the sensitivity as well as the urgency of the blue moves. in my country, slovenia, we are deciding this week on the next steps towards the recognition of a palestinian state. we social democrats have already made that decision. the fact is, we want to establish two states. two safe countries that will guarantee peace in the region. it is difficult and painful to follow decades of violence, armed conflict, illegal construction, and continuous violations of international law and human rights. every innocent life, not one or the other, hinders and sharpens the search for a solution. i agree with you that we need a strong, common european message here in the european parliament. i hope that with you, mrs. mogherini, with your team, we can achieve a two-state solution and mutual recognition. it's the only way to guarantee peace in the middle east.
on the anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, i would like to draw the attention of honourable colleagues to a written statement i submitted two years ago. it referred to the establishment of a european day against the sexual exploitation of children. sexual violence is unacceptable and is also a subject of the convention. my written statement, despite an intense campaign and a great desire to show our attitude to the really difficult problems facing children, received 130 votes of support from 750 deputies. at the same time, the support of a colleague who submitted a written statement for the european home-made ice cream day received almost 400 votes. a colleague of mine was organizing a free ice cream tasting in the halls of parliament. i like ice cream, too. but i would rather see children who are happy, free, and respected every day, not just on the convention anniversary, have the opportunity to try it. let's think about actions, because even children have enough empty words.
the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child is the fruit of our responsibility and commitment to work towards the adoption by member states of all legal frameworks to promote and protect children's rights. in addition to all that has been said today, i would like to emphasise that we must also encourage children to know what their rights are and to know that violence is illegal, even when it is perpetrated by people they trust. we are committed to continue to promote children's rights and to work to ensure that member states adopt all legal frameworks and other measures to eliminate violence against children.
i would like to draw attention in this extremely important debate to a specific problem of children in refugee camps. we have more and more refugee camps, and the reasons for them are more and more diverse, and most often it's our inability, the inability of the international community, to address the problems in a timely manner. and the situation of children in refugee camps is getting worse by the day, with fewer resources. i would urge that the european union not only shows what we always say, a generosity of heart, when it comes to supporting people in need, but also to contribute to the international coordination of aid and to find out what the situation is really like today after all the disasters that are happening around the world, and to help the most vulnerable children while there is still time for them to be traumatised into life.
on behalf of the alde group. the six on the former yugoslav site is a metaphor for crime. a metaphor for the worst things that were happening, and he imprinted his image forever beneath the horrors of the wolf man. six is a man who will be written about in history with the same letters as the greatest criminals of fascism, nazism and other -isms. the sixth should not be given a public tribune to proclaim his old, his discarded ideas in today's time, in different circumstances. i don't want to criticize the hague tribunal, but because of its decisions, but it certainly wasn't the most brilliant, it was wrong. as for the serbian authorities, they've been on the fence since seselj's arrival, they have no credit for seselj's arrival. but i call on them, and this resolution calls on them, to go after him through the rule of law.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. why did i sign the resolution on the seselj? not because i want to try him for war crimes, which only the hague tribunal can do, and i hope it does as soon as possible, because if it did, we wouldn't be discussing these matters today. secondly, i did not sign the resolution because i wanted to share the lessons with serbia and its leadership. the latter had already responded to šešelj with changes that transformed serbia into a completely different state and society than šešelj and his supporters had imagined in the eight years since his departure to the hague. but the fact that the verdict has not yet been delivered does not give the six the right to spread lies that tarnish the victims of crimes that have already occurred and to spread hatred that can lead to new violence, new tensions. such talk must be condemned here in the european parliament, where our colleagues from serbia will one day sit. and my support is mainly for those in serbia who are fighting to make their society open, tolerant, modern and democratic, so we cannot be silent here or in serbia.
in writing. let me say that in my work so far i have warned many times about the dangers of hate speech, radicalism, nationalism and the terrible consequences that these phenomena have. i will always seek to condemn those who use manipulation and war-related rhetoric to achieve political ends. especially those accused of war crimes who have proven in the past to choose conflict over reconciliation. however, i would like to call on the honourable members to exercise the caution and political wisdom required by today's decision on the resolution concerning the provisional release of vojislav šešelj, accused of war crimes. i think that the adoption of the resolution is adding fuel to the fire, which is completely unnecessary at the moment, and even undesirable. it is clear that these are political provocations which the ep wishes to ignore rather than respond to. because by passing a resolution, we give the accused exactly what he wants: attention and importance. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the adoption of such personalised resolutions is not the practice of the ep. i repeat once again that the ep must not be used as a training ground for the resolution or promotion of domestic political issues. what we need at this moment is a firm will: to overcome as soon as possible the conflict that led to the bloody balkan wars and a sober determination of the weu countries to have a common future within the eu.
in writing. - i voted against juncker's motion of censure, but i still believe that in the long term there should be a unified tax policy in the european union. juncker is someone who knows these matters well and can put forward a solution. i wonder who will support these solutions, since it is in the interest of some of the larger countries that nothing should change. we are facing a serious problem, because more favourable tax environments mean discrimination on the one hand and privilege on the other, because some do not pay the same taxes as the majority. that's the problem.
in writing. - i am aware of my responsibilities, which is why i voted against the no-confidence motion. i hope that many of the good commission projects that are being set up will succeed in the future. the proposers were not initially credible, as they were constantly trying to destabilise the european commission and the eu by their extreme and eurosceptic attitude and by raising doubts about juncker's work, which had emerged from the luxleaks affair. they failed to do so, as the meps from the moderate political groups supported the commission, and the result of the vote was even better than the commission's confirmation last month. despite my support for juncker, i have repeatedly stressed the need for an independent and comprehensive investigation into luxleaks. we must not tolerate unfair tax policies in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on delays in the start of implementation of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, of which i am a co-rapporteur, as any further delays would be very damaging to the european economy. in fact, for some member states, including slovenia, european funds are almost the only source of funds for the implementation of investment projects and the creation of new jobs during the crisis. all agreements and programmes should be ready by the end of the year, but this seems unlikely. if there are major delays, european businesses and citizens will suffer the most. more responsible behaviour is needed in the implementation of cohesion policy, the adoption of partnership agreements and operational programmes. the commission and the member states must now do everything possible to avoid any further delays.
in writing. — in general i supported the resolution. thus, i respect the principle of subsidiarity in areas where i consider each member state has to make its own decisions and establish its own levels of subsidiarity. i refer to areas such as education in sexual and reproductive health and rights. on the other hand, in view of the considerable number of cases alleging that public authorities in some member states have proceeded with forced adoption without parental consent, i agree that the commission puts forward specific measures to ensure that the adoption practices carried out in the member states are in the best interests of the child!
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, which i co-authored. over the last 25 years, the situation of children around the world has improved, but our work is not yet done. serious violations of children's rights continue to occur around the world, especially in developing countries: children die from malnutrition, are forcibly recruited into armed conflict, are sexually abused, are used for hard labor. violations of children's rights are unacceptable and we must do everything we can to correct them. we also have work to do within the eu: for example, we need to better protect children from mixed marriages, who are in a very difficult situation after the divorce of their parents, through european legislation. we must also protect europe's children from poverty, physical and psychological violence. i would also point out that for children to develop properly, they need understanding, as well as respect for authority, which is often forgotten by parents today. while many in the past brought up their children in a very authoritarian way, which was bad, many parents today are doing their children harm by being too permissive in their upbringing, failing to give them proper direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a resolution by which the european parliament calls on the eu member states and the european commission to remove obstacles to the expansion of the digital single market. meps also stressed the need to prevent dominant companies from over-concentrating on the market and abusing their dominant position, including by excluding search engines from packages with other commercial services, if necessary. the digital single market could generate up to €260 billion a year, helping europe recover from the crisis and boost the competitiveness of the european economy, the text says. at the same time, it points out that important challenges need to be addressed, such as market fragmentation, lack of interoperability and the growing digital divide between generations and regions.
in writing. — i voted for the resolution on child undernutrition and malnutrition in developing countries. i deplore that close to a billion people still suffer from hunger, and at least 225 million of the world’s children under the age of five suffer from acute and chronic undernutrition and stunted growth as a result of chronic child and maternal undernutrition, of which it is estimated that 2.6 million die every year in developing countries. the causes of child undernutrition are numerous and most of them are man-made and therefore avoidable, ranging from inefficient economic structures, unequal distribution of resources and/or their unsustainable use, poor governance, over-reliance on individual crop and monocultural cropping practices, discrimination against women and children, and ill-health caused by deficient health systems, as well as lack of education, especially for mothers. from a life-cycle perspective, the most crucial time to meet a child’s nutritional requirements is in the first 1 000 days of life, including the period of pregnancy, as during this time the child has increased nutritional needs to support rapid growth and development, is more susceptible to infections and is totally dependent on others for nutrition, care and social interactions.
in writing. nearly one billion people in the world still suffer from hunger and at least 225 million children under the age of five suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition. it is estimated that 2.6 million children die each year in developing countries because of malnutrition in their mothers. research shows that malnutrition is the leading cause of death among children. malnutrition negatively affects people's health and productivity. this has also led to a deterioration in social and economic development in developing countries. international organizations confirm that the world produces enough food to feed all mankind and that malnutrition among children is linked to unequal food distribution. access to and the right to a quality and balanced diet are essential for children's development. this is why consistent and long-term strategies to reduce malnutrition are needed. to be more effective, food crisis prevention assistance programmes need to be more closely linked to the development and strategy of countries. the latter must focus on sustainable agriculture and locally processed food. the subject is very hot and problematic. it is necessary to alert the member states, the commission and the council to the situation and to mobilise as many institutions as possible to become more active in this area in the future. for the reasons stated above, i supported the resolution.
we've said a lot today. however, i would like to emphasise once again that the road traffic offences legislation is too lax and that the classification is not complete. but i support the resolution for two reasons: first, security. the fact is that the standards of vocational training for the driver profession in europe are different and this is also reflected in behaviour on the roads. secondly, it is about the future of the transport sector. the transport sector also needs generational renewal, as the average age of drivers is very high. working conditions are already very demanding, and social dumping is reducing them. we must therefore all ask ourselves how, in such circumstances, we can attract young people in the transport sector, thereby also reducing road accidents.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for all the support that you have shown tonight for this project. i took good note of the positions expressed here in this debate. let me assure you that the commission shares the view of parliament in believing that tighter, renewed scientific cooperation with our southern partners is an asset for peace, stability, shared prosperity and growth in our region. efforts to strengthen the partnership in the mediterranean area through european and national programmes are to be pursued in synergy, coordination or alignment with other existing eu initiatives relevant to those areas. it remains of paramount importance to avoid duplication and to demonstrate convincing added value. the merits of any proposal will be carefully assessed on the basis of the above-mentioned criteria, and subsequently the best way forward will be evaluated.
a few words also on the agenda relating to the floods. it should be said that floods and droughts have become commonplace in recent years, they are no longer the exception and we are no longer talking about centuries-old waters, but rather annual floods. we have, of course, damaged and continue to damage the environment to such an extent that climate change is bringing more and more extreme weather events such as drought, hail, ice, and this is confirmed by this year's floods, which have affected slovenia severely. virtually entire areas in croatia, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, and bulgaria have been destroyed. and it's time, of course, to change our attitude to this and to start doing preventive work to correct the consequences of mistakes. that means we start investing in preventive activities: deepening the levees, cleaning the rivers and all the things that reduce the risk of flooding, and that's also an opportunity for new jobs.
i agree with the european commission's findings and with all those who say that economic governance in the individual member states of the european union has reached a dead end in recent years. and of course, both of these packages offer some sort of a way out of this situation. whether or not this was actually a successful project is very difficult to judge at the moment. but, for all the reservations we have, it is appropriate and, of course, necessary to strengthen and deepen budgetary control. too often, national governments behave irrationally, of course, in the context of trying to please their constituents. it is good that the macroeconomic imbalance procedure has extended the scrutiny of economic policies and that it also takes into account the social aspect. the commission informs us that it carried out 42 in-depth checks and identified 5 instances of imbalance but did not take action. in this connection, of course, another important question arises: are the promises made by individual governments sufficient, or does the commission place too much trust in individual governments and, of course, does it not judge sufficiently by their content whether the measures promised by governments are actually implemented in the end? at least as far as my country, slovenia, is concerned, i can see from the table in the annex that the commission has been more of a promise-maker. finally, i would like to stress that the commission should naturally pay more attention in future to the substantive assessment of individual measures, and another important point: the commission must in all cases, including cases of ... (the president called on the member to speak. )
economic and fiscal union is very important for countries large and small alike. the euro is one of the key drivers, especially in small, export-oriented countries such as slovenia. i support rules that are strict and that apply to both large and small countries. but given the changed circumstances in which we find ourselves as a result of the economic and financial crisis, i am very pleased with mr juncker's new package, which in a way allows us to create fiscal stability and at the same time a welfare state through the most effective measure, namely employment. so i strongly believe that in these reforms, which are written in many country tables, we need to take a very close look at the countries and also insist that the reforms are being implemented and that they are being implemented in the long term. they are needed first and foremost by the countries themselves, not by the european union.
in writing. i would like to thank the european commission and vice-president valdis dombrovskis for a concise and concise overview of economic governance. the crisis has exposed our weaknesses and caught europe off guard. with the six and the twins, we have strengthened the stability and growth pact and built in a security mechanism that, through prevention, ensures a more economically stable europe. it is true that we have not yet been able to test measures in different economic circumstances, but mechanisms such as the annual publication of the reform programme and the stability programme, the european semester and so on, ensure that problems are detected early enough and that timely action is taken. we have better controls and member states need to be more careful and precise in planning their budgets. the fact that budget deficits in the member states have started to decline indicates that the first economic reactions to the six and the twos are positive. i regret that my country, slovenia, is the only member state to have been warned twice in succession by the european commission about macroeconomic imbalances. but we must face these problems like any other member state and overcome these imbalances through financial consolidation. let me just stress once again that we must demand the same degree of accountability from smaller and larger member states. i want the rules to be the same for everyone.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 on the assistance to the commission and the cooperation of the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs. in december 2012, the commission launched the regulatory fitness and performance (refit) programme to provide a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens. in this context, the commission has undertaken to repeal rules that have become redundant or obsolete. in accordance with regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, the scientific tasks entrusted to the scientific committee for food have been taken over by the scientific committee and the advisory committee of the european food safety authority (efsa). under regulation (ec) no 178/2002, efsa also became the competent authority for the promotion of scientific cooperation with the member states and the relevant national authorities operating in the fields of the agency's mission. council directive 93/5/eec has thus become obsolete and should be repealed.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report. council decision 2004/162/ec of 10 february 2004 (as extended by council decision 378/2014/eu) authorised france, until 31 december 2014, to apply exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax for a number of products produced in the french outermost regions due to handicaps affecting the concerned territories in order to support their competitiveness and socio-economic development. france requested that a similar system be maintained until 31 december 2020. the purpose of the new proposal is to establish a new legal framework for the dock dues from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020. it also foresees extending decision 2004/162/ec by six months in order to allow france to transpose the provisions of the new council decision into its national law.
millions of europeans are unable to find work today or have lost their savings during the crisis. we have dynamic, young people with great potential, but their prospects are worse than ever, including at the expense of multinationals and tax cheats who freely exploit the differences in our tax systems. if europe were really to fight tax havens and tax evasion, the approximately eur 1 trillion that fall into the tax hole every year could be invested in youth employment, in investments to revive the economy, in empty national coffers. i believe that the vast majority of us here and in the general public understand tax evasion as unfair and immoral evasion of duty. the commission and european governments are among the first to pledge again today to fight tax evasion, but it is their ministers who have blocked a number of tax-related legislation in brussels in the past. we proposed in the european parliament last year that all multinationals should be required to report on their activities in the countries where they are present. this would prevent them from paying only a few percent of the tax at the end of the year. we need evidence today of a bold, dynamic but reliable european commission, and my new year's wish is that people not only in my country, slovenia, but across europe will once again follow and shape european policies with the same enthusiasm as we did a decade or more ago. failure to do so means that we have not learned any lessons from the past, whether it is tax fraud, the rise of extremism, nationalism in europe or the death of desperate people in the mediterranean sea, because despite the tragedies, we do not have a comprehensive solidarity migration and asylum policy. and as a confident european, i simply don't want that. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. i do not know, my dear colleague, if i have understood your question. i love football, i don't play football, but i know there's a lot of beauty in sport that connects us, so i wish we had a lot of these sporty, healthy moments in europe. and if i can take your comparison to what we can do better in the economy, for jobs and for growth, we can draw that parallel.
i want to thank everyone who's been involved in the reconciliation process. i'm not entirely satisfied, because instead of 7 billion euros, we've only managed to agree on an additional 4.8 billion euros, which will only stabilize the unpaid bills. old bills for completed projects should be paid as soon as possible so that local communities and businesses do not have problems as a result. you have to honor your contract. i would also point out that without funds there is no longer an annual financial and development programme. i also welcome the juncker investment programme. finally, i would like to thank slovenia for receiving eur 18 388 000 from the european union solidarity fund, which it will use to deal with the consequences of the ice and snow in february this year.
with some unwillingness on the part of the member states to approve the commission's proposal for the 2015 budget together with parliament in november, we were almost faced with the financing of the budget for the coming year by the dozen, and after all the debate on individual programmes and policies and the money that the commission will have available next year, we are naturally leaving out problems that may have unforeseen consequences for the whole of europe. i am talking about what my colleagues have already said before me, about the increasingly large arrears on the part of the commission in the payment of subsidies and payments for projects already carried out throughout europe. the problem of the payment imbalances, which have actually been in place since september, is not fully resolved by this new budget proposal either. of course, this is not the responsibility of this commission, but it can certainly become one if the commission does not seriously consider solving this problem, rather than simply postponing it for the future.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all i would like to thank members for their comments and consideration, and at the same time for their good words to me. i have felt your support, and i thank you very much for this support in this very difficult job and in these very difficult circumstances. let me finish with three clear conclusions of our debate today. firstly, i repeat that the crisis we are discussing today is unprecedented, both in terms of its humanitarian consequences for millions of people, and, of course, its financial implications. it is a crisis that has enormous implications for europe – for us. a comprehensive response to this crisis cannot be built on our normal budgets. this is, unfortunately, very clear. as you have already mentioned, a credible eu response is needed. we have the collective responsibility to find the means to make it possible, and we need to realise that if we do not invest sufficient funds in the region, the consequences will surely be felt far outside the region. my second point is that we are doing everything possible, within the commission and together with our member states, to respond effectively to the needs. the european union, as a whole, has led the international response to the syrian crisis. we are the leading donor to the syrian cause. we must remain the leaders in this regard. thirdly, the humanitarian response cannot stand by itself. this is a protracted crisis. it requires an integrated response in close cooperation with development actors and national authorities. we are already working together with our development colleagues to better integrate the humanitarian aid with the resilience stabilisation assistance. on this, again, we need to find ways to step up our financial assistance. at the end of the day, the syrian crisis requires – as you mentioned – a political solution. unfortunately, the humanitarian problems need a political solution and humanitarian assistance at the urgent stage. we need to work hard with all actors involved to achieve this very difficult goal. i am sure that our support as the european union to the initiative of special envoy de mistura is crucial, critical and helpful. thank you again for your attention. i look forward to our continued cooperation in these very difficult circumstances.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the debate and i also thank the commissioner for his very precise and explicit words. the european union is committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un security council resolution. the total eu humanitarian assistance since the start of the crisis has exceeded eur 2.1 billion and we are also one of the main donors to the world food programme and strongly support its action for syrian refugees. our contribution to the recent emergency appeal has once again demonstrated this and, together with the world food programme, member states will ensure that the available funds can be used in the most efficient and effective way. proper planning and prioritization will be key to this and i am confident that together we can achieve this.
member of the commission.– madam president, the honour is all mine. honourable members, whereas the current focus in the media very much turns around the events in ukraine, there is, as you know, another very important neighbour to the european union, which is the republic of moldova. that country faces the economic consequences of a political choice to sign an association agreement with the european union. the republic of moldova chose that its economic development should be based on european values and a deep and comprehensive free trade area with the eu. this was a choice in favour of us, it was not directed against anyone, yet products which were almost exclusively exported to russia can no longer find their way to that market. the preferences under the free trade agreement with the commonwealth of independent states that moldova enjoyed in bilateral trade with russia were also suspended for a number of key products. we know that it is possible to maintain free trade areas with several trade partners at the same time, and that business makes the choice of the market in which it sells its goods and services. it is not and should not be a zero sum game, which is why we need to support moldova, our eastern partner. we need to help it not only in the process of implementing the deep and comprehensive free trade area – and we are already assisting moldova with this – but also through any other means we have. that is why the commission proposal to amend the autonomous trade preferences regulations offers moldova temporary additional relief for its needs, in undertaking efforts to reroute the exports of its apples, table grapes and plums. anyone who trades with partners abroad knows how difficult it can be to reroute exports to new markets and find new partners there. so the proposal that you will discuss here today is a temporary measure, as the rapporteur so correctly said. it will expire in a year. the commission proposes to apply it retroactively to imports from moldova from august this year, when the first bans were introduced on moldovan exports. the duty free quotas proposed – for plums, apples and table grapes – do not endanger the eu market, and that was also made very clear in the statement by the rapporteur. i am aware that there are concerns here surrounding the possible impact of this on our own farmers, but i am convinced that we can support and show solidarity for moldova without any domestic risks. to give a concrete figure – others were mentioned before and this is another one – imports of apples from moldova equal 0.8% of total eu production, plums 1.4% and table grapes 1.1%. so i think this is a good opportunity for us to show solidarity with a neighbouring country in need. i would very much like to thank parliament, and in particular the inta committee and the rapporteur, mr moisă, for the swift manner in which this file has been handled.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. i myself strongly support this proposal for trade preferences. as you know, the republic of moldova has signed an association agreement with the european commission, the main objective of which is to establish closer cooperation in the field of trade. this agreement will enable moldova to strengthen its access to the european market and thus reduce its dependence on neighbouring countries, in particular russia, in the long term. in addition, the changes to laws and standards that are closer to european standards will help to facilitate the import of products from eu countries. unfortunately, the association agreement not only has positive effects, but also puts moldova in a difficult position, in particular due to the measures of russia and the import ban. this ban is very damaging to moldova and that is why i think the european union has a special and important part of the responsibility to help it, both technically and financially, in the implementation of areas that are important for moldova and its future development.
mr juncker, i would like to congratulate you on your fresh ideas and fresh energy. you're tired today it's hard to listen to us for two days. but i would like to make a specific request on behalf of my constituents. your investment programme is good and we welcome it, but older people also expect you to come up with a programme, with the commission's response to demographic change in europe. you haven't talked about this before. we expect you to address this issue in future programming.
in writing. in late january and early february 2014, slovenia was affected by an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. the severe ice loss caused enormous economic damage. damage to the electrical grid left about 250,000 people without power, and the blackouts caused the closure of many roads across the country. the most damaging damage was to transport and energy infrastructure. in addition, nearly half the country's forests have been destroyed. slovenia has submitted an application to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. the total damage caused by the acute pancreatitis was estimated at eur 428 733 722. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the measure is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the restructuring of the company. as the estimated total damage exceeds the threshold, the accident is classified as a 'major natural disaster'. on the basis of the calculations, the european commission proposed an aid amount to slovenia of eur 18 388 478. in addition to slovenia, financial assistance from the solidarity fund was also granted to italy following the floods in sardinia, to greece following the earthquake in kafelenia and to croatia following the landslide and subsequent floods. since it is important to show solidarity and help countries to overcome difficult situations due to natural disasters, i supported the proposal for a decision to use the european union solidarity fund to the four countries mentioned.
in writing. the negotiations on the budget of the european union have included negotiations on the general budget for the financial year 2015 and negotiations on the draft amending budgets for the financial year 2014. following the failure of the negotiations on the first commission proposal, the commission prepared on 28 november a new draft budget for 2015, which provided for significantly lower amounts for both payments and commitments (eur 373 million less in commitments and as much as eur 800 million less in payments). the negotiations were characterised by an increasing number of payment arrears, as the commission had to defer more and more reimbursements to beneficiaries in 2014, and we could also detect very restrictive administrative rules that contributed to even larger payment arrears. i am convinced that this agreement on the 2015 budget will lead to a further increase in payment arrears, which will have a significant negative impact on the implementation of the policies of the european union and will reduce its credibility. the agreement on the 2015 budget will have the greatest impact on programmes in the fields of research, development, education and regional development, which are crucial for the recovery of the european economy. for all the above reasons, i voted against the proposal for a new general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015.
throughout its history, the european union has repeatedly expressed its support for a peaceful solution to the palestinian-israeli conflict and has sought to find the best solution to end the violence that is practically an everyday occurrence. and that's actually been going on for the last couple of decades. the european parliament, in a resolution adopted in 2012, already stressed that a peaceful and non-violent way of reaching an agreement and dialogue between palestine and israel is the only possible and meaningful way to achieve a lasting solution to the conflict. and of course today we hear arguments for and against the recognition of palestine as an independent state, but if recognition of palestine were an obstacle to peace, it would have been concluded long ago. that is why i support this resolution and palestine as an independent state, because it seems to me that in the 21st century this is the only sensible and wise way forward for a peaceful settlement of the conflict.
on behalf of the s&d group. i sincerely hope that the debate we are about to have will indeed achieve its purpose. don't blame me for being blunt, but i think it's necessary. what do the following cases remind you of? the accused was squeezed into a cage too small, the cage was hung and left hanging, and the accused died from exposure to the sun or the cold. the accused was hung and lowered on a pole that penetrated his anus or vagina. water torture was popular. if that brings to mind the middle ages, the inquisition, the rabble, the occult, you're right, we learned about that in school. what do the following examples remind you of: during torture, the accused died of hypothermia because he was chained naked to the concrete floor, or he spent thirteen years in a box smaller than a coffin (the chairman interrupted the member and asked him to speak more slowly for the sake of fellow members and interpreters). if that brings you back to the middle ages, you're wrong. it's called the cia's special interrogation methods, and it was happening today. another difference is that, particularly in the last century, a number of conventions, charters, legal instruments, human rights statutes, as you mentioned, have been written and symbolically signed in virtually every country in the world. the united states is a signatory to the convention against torture, which explicitly prohibits torture even in emergency situations. i made a very rude introduction on purpose, and i'm speaking in the plural on purpose, because we're all complicit. it has been more than seven years since the european parliament adopted its final report on the activities of the cia in europe, and i repeat, seven years. and the european union countries still haven't come up with the truth. practically nothing happened. no one was held accountable. the fight against terrorism and, don't laugh, respect for human rights are not mutually exclusive. and the victims of the war on terror deserve justice, too. torture is illegal, immoral and unacceptable. europe's involvement in any form whatsoever in any illegal cia activity is shameful, unworthy of democracy and of the foundations and values on which the european union was built. we therefore call for a full investigation and for clear responses from member states. non-punishment is unacceptable, as is pretending that nothing happened and that we were not involved. we demand measures to ensure effective democratic control over the work of intelligence agencies. we demand protective measures to ensure that something like this does not happen again in europe. dear colleagues and colleagues! the truth is sometimes very hard to accept, but we deserve it. and we have a duty to pass it on to our citizens and to ourselves. for who but ourselves can guarantee that we will not be on the torture stake tomorrow?
let me just say, for the record, that i was pleased with your performance and your evaluation. but i would like to say that we expressed solidarity with the united states of america at the time of the terrorist attack on the world trade center, and that solidarity still stands. unfortunately, the so-called war on terrorism in the years since has produced a range of responses and methods that we simply cannot agree with. the cia has not only embarrassed its own country, but has also damaged the reputation of european countries that have offered hospitality to its scandalous activities. the united states cannot deny the fact that it is one of 156 countries that have signed the convention against torture and that it is therefore obligated to bring those responsible for these crimes to justice. in the event that the military or civilian justice system of the united states of america decides not to act and thus leaves the torturers and the responsible politicians unpunished, the complementary clause of the international criminal court (icc) can be invoked immediately. this clause allows the court to take matters into its own hands whenever governments or states are unwilling to act. the icc may also issue arrest warrants for and sentence to death any person responsible for the said crimes. by publishing the torture report, the united states has so far only done part, the first part of its job in demonstrating its commitment to human rights and international law. but let's not forget that guantanamo is still operational.
blue-card question. – madam president, i just wanted to ask my distinguished colleague whether it would not be better if we, europe, had an active stand vis-à-vis turkey. i can remember how long it took for greece to join the european union. i think the european union is making a mistake by not opening any chapter and not progressing in its relations with turkey. the question is: do you not think that it would be better to take an active stance rather than waiting passively for the democratisation of turkey?
