the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. the transport sector is one of the few sectors in the eu that is experiencing rapidly increasing emissions. to achieve the goal of limiting climate change, greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced substantially, and therefore, of course, emissions from road transport are also crucial. the commission's 2020 target proposal had two different targets: one for passenger cars and one for light commercial vehicles. my original proposal in committee was that we should have the same level of ambition regardless of the type of vehicle - it would probably have been more efficient. it had also confirmed the level of ambition that many had already set themselves. the socialist ambition was a more ambitious agreement, but we accepted the outcome because the passenger cars were being negotiated at the same time from a slightly better starting point. we did not foresee that the german government of the day would block the agreement on cars, which is why cars have been postponed and not put to the vote along with light commercial vehicles. in view of the climate package we voted on in the environment and industry committees last week, it is important that the commission now live up to the long-term target for light trucks as they have committed to, namely to reach the target for light commercial vehicles with emission limits between 105 and 120 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2025. it will be crucial if we are to achieve our climate ambitions. i am therefore disappointed with the result, i endured it and i hope that the commission will take up the work that must now be done.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i have worked and drafted laws with holger krahmer many times in this parliament, but this time we have not been able to agree - we thought it was too different this time. we had a fantastic opportunity this time to vote for rules that save money, improve the economy, increase our export opportunities and benefit european businesses and the environment at the same time. the commission's own evaluations showed that an ambitious level had been achieved in all these objectives at the same time. even if we had set the limit of 110 grams already in 2020, it would have been achievable and there the benefits of fuel savings would have been much higher than the costs of the new light trucks. the fuel savings we had obtained for the most ambitious of the commission's examined proposals would have been equivalent to just over two euro cents or 20 swedish øre per kilometre. why should all the craftsmen of europe pay more unnecessarily? in addition: who are we going to export cars to? where are the most light trucks sold in 2020? yes, in asia, you know. do you think they'll buy cars that use a lot of fuel? this is also a missed opportunity for exports. the millions of people who use these light trucks didn't come here. the companies that would have no problem achieving these goals did not care, but it was the backward companies that came here and told us how difficult it would be for them and they influenced the legislation. is this the europe of innovation that everyone is talking about? no, it is a europe of retrogression and this legislation is completely inadequate. but in this case, only the commission can save us, because we need a new test cycle and i really want you to put forward a proposal where the emission levels for 2025 are maybe 105 grams, then we will still have a realistic target that helps the environment and the economy. but this is a lost opportunity for the environment, for the economy, for jobs, which is sad.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i'm not that impressed with what's come out either. carl schlyter made an excellent speech earlier, so actually i could say da capo, but i'll say something more than that. the reasoning behind the rapporteur's report says that nothing has actually happened, but it has. since 2011, when we made this decision in this chamber, we have had a new ipcs report from the united nations that makes even clearer the responsibility of humans and even clearer how much we have increased carbon dioxide emissions since pre-industrial times. so there's room to do another analysis. moreover, the targets in the 2011 decision that we have just been talking about were very low from the start, which was very unfortunate. we set such low targets, even though we already knew about climate change and the need to reduce fuel consumption. if we had new goals, we would encourage new innovations and show the world that we are taking responsibility for future generations. the crisis, which is also used as a motivation here, is not a good argument in this context. there is no contradiction between crisis and jobs and the environment. work and environment can go hand in hand. we can create new jobs by also doing different types of eco-innovation and investing in new technologies. there's nothing that contradicts these things. on the contrary, we could use the crisis to invest in investments and innovations that are ecologically sustainable, that can combine work with action and that are good for the environment and our ecosystems. so instead, the crisis should be used to find these solutions, and that's why environment and jobs go hand in hand. it is very unfortunate that we are stuck here and do not want to go any further, because we need it for the future both here in europe and in the world and also for our jobs.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the president. - the debate is closed. we agree that the test cycle must reflect the value of energy savings in efficient driving. but you said it's important to get the numbers right. but you are aware that the baseline number you used was incorrect? the commission's original calculations are based on too high baseline figures, which then exaggerate the ambition of this proposal. just so you know, it is lower than the one you mentioned, because it was incorrect in the commission's original proposal which was then corrected and discovered.
blue-card question. – madam president, this is not really a question, but it is just that the figures which i quoted are from the commission’s impact assessment. they showed that, with a more ambitious proposal, the fuel saving would be much greater than the cost of a new vehicle – the relative cost of the increase of the new vehicle. so they are not my figures; i took them from the commission’s impact assessment.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you can count everything from poaching to illegal logging and illegal export of wildlife to the environmental crimes we're discussing here. and as we have seen in the debate: it is not something that is happening far away from us, but it is a criminal activity that is also taking place in europe to a great extent. in particular, europe is one of the most important destination markets. so we must act to reduce demand here in europe too. it should be ugly and it should be something to be ashamed of, to be a speculator and buyer in this market, which according to the latest figures is worth billions of dollars, up to 19 to 20 billion us dollars a year. that's one thing. the second is that through global response and global cooperation, we must also reduce crime itself, and not just demand.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank lithuania for a very good presidency. as a small country in the union, you have done a fantastic job. i think it's safe to say we're all impressed. as i myself come from a small country, i know from the time sweden first held the presidency in 2001 how much it meant to our country and perhaps even more to your country. i can't help but express my admiration and pride in what you've done. as a member of that committee on economic and monetary affairs, i have followed the work on the regulation of banks and financial markets. i have been involved in the negotiations on the so-called mifid directive the directive and the markets in financial instruments regulation and attended 12 tripartite meetings. unfortunately, we fell short of the target at the last tripartite meeting in december, and the greek presidency will have to take over the reins. but i would like to thank dovile naktinyte and her team in particular for their excellent work. i hope that you will pass on the message, madam president-in-office, and the tribute to her team. without her work we wouldn't have come as far as we have done. finally, i will also support you in joining the eurozone. i hope this will encourage my own country, sweden, to join, following latvia and lithuania. you are two brave countries: hopefully my country can learn from that.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has tabled an opinion on the proposal. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to begin by expressing my warm thanks to the rapporteur, mr robert rochefort, for the excellent work he has done in producing this important report. of course, it is of the utmost importance that a well-functioning consumer protection system exists and operates throughout the union, and hopefully this programme can help to achieve just that in the coming years for the benefit of consumers. on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (juri), i would like to thank the rapporteur - and indeed the whole team working on this important issue in the committee on the internal market (imco) - for the fact that several of the amendments we tabled in juri have been taken into account and are now included in the final text. it is, for example, a matter of emphasizing the legal protection of consumers and the central and extremely important nature of this legal protection. it is also important that our writings on smart legislation and reduced regulatory burden are taken into account and that international organisations have also been included in the final text, and for this i would like to thank my committee and myself.
mr president, ensuring a high level of protection for all consumers in the european union is a well-established goal for this house. i know that colleagues working on this report have made the utmost effort to ensure a good level of harmonisation between the member states in the upcoming six years. equally important for the welfare of consumers in the european union will be the upcoming copyright reform. the commission opened a consultation on the future of european copyright in december last year, and a modernisation of copyright will be as important for new and innovative services in the digital environment as it will be for consumers. i hope that the future of copyright law will also be closely integrated into any consumer welfare programme that the european institutions engage with in the upcoming six years so that we can ensure a sustainable and inclusive digital environment for everyone in europe.
mr president, i support the consumer programme, because it enhances consumer freedom of choice and the safety of products. people want to know what they are buying. finally we have a budget that gives the possibility specifically to boost cross-border cooperation in europe for product safety, better awareness of consumer rights and the possibility to enhance informal dispute resolution. better information will also make it possible to compare not only prices but also quality and sustainability. too often it is the ‘red tag price’ that drives consumption, when it should also be what the product contains. we should, of course, use all possible innovative solutions the digital world gives us to increase traceability, transparency and safety. i am happy that the programme also focuses on vulnerable consumers such as children, and i invite and encourage stakeholders and all consumer organisations to implement the programme and particularly to avoid misleading marketing aimed at children.
in writing. - i've put my vote down. the programme has positive elements aimed at enhancing consumer protection and better dispute resolution mechanisms. but the negative is that the whole basic idea is based on total confidence in the single market and that more money is also required for the eu budget. for that reason, i cannot vote for or against the programme. i choose to hang up.
in writing. - i voted for the action plan. a planned and well-developed ehealth, as presented in the programme, could contribute to safe and effective healthcare. but i would like to emphasize that there are direct errors in the report, which states, among other things, that everyone has a right to health care in the eu. this is not true when the eu/imf/ecb austerity programs have led to such drastic cuts in health care in the countries of the euro crisis, such as greece, that millions of people today lack access to health care. the eu needs a new economic policy to make health care a reality for everyone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that the european parliament is saying no more to food fraud today. people want to know what they're eating and where their food is coming from. after the horse meat scandal, it is now time to take concrete measures to restore consumer confidence in the food. we will respond with better traceability, better transparency, better controls, better dna tests, not food nationalism or closed borders. with a common market for food, we are no stronger than the weakest link. food safety is high in the eu, but now we must go from words to action and better combat fraud and misinformation related to food fraud. the solution is not more rules, but better and more uniform implementation throughout the eu of the rules we already have. we do not want to make it harder for small businesses, but the food industry must take greater collective responsibility to combat food fraud. cheating is not supposed to be profitable, and that's why both police and prosecutors must prioritize food fraud. thank you, chairman. i'll say no more food fraud.
in writing. − this report deals with the important issue of labour inspections, which are essential to the enforcement of rules on working conditions. it is important that member states cooperate, for example to combat social dumping, but it should be noted that labour inspection is not an eu competence. it is the responsibility of the member states to enforce proper working conditions. i vote in favour of the report on the assumption that it will not lead to more eu competences in this field.
in writing. − the report contains several good examples, both in terms of cooperation and the use of eu instruments. in particular in cohesion policy and the second pillar of the eu's agricultural policy, where we welcome the extension of the leader method as one of several improvements. we, the swedish social democrats, however, chose to abstain in the vote because it is not clear how its proposal for a territorial quality label would help to further promote the development of regional economies. initiatives concerning local and regional development should be based on a bottom-up approach and should ideally be initiated at the local level. in this way both the anchoring and the content of the proposal would have been improved.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. i think it is good to promote regional products and local producers. but since the whole report is based on support for and confidence in the eu's agricultural policy, which i consider to be highly inefficient and often environmentally unfriendly, i cannot vote for the proposal. that's why the voice is silenced.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to congratulate marc tarabella on behalf of the committee on the environment on a very good job. it is gratifying that the focus is now shifting from the lowest price to the so-called most economically advantageous offer, which can also be based on a life-cycle perspective. this can make it clear to everyone that the directive not only allows but also encourages the setting of high environmental and sustainability standards in procurement. used correctly, this can bring significant improvements for the environment and also for all companies that want to be at the forefront of environmental issues. it is also gratifying that it will now be a requirement that the labour law conditions existing in the locality and in the industry be followed in sweden the rules contained in collective agreements will apply. it is also gratifying that the directive is helping to clean up the unmanageable supply chains that exist today. last but not least, i welcome the fact that the commission's proposal has now been amended so that it is actually easier to require fairly labelled products in public procurement.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by saying that i am pleasantly surprised by the directive on public procurement. there were many with me who were deeply concerned about putting cost and money first. but now it is possible to impose social and environmental requirements and to require that collective agreements be respected, and it is possible to exclude companies that have committed criminal acts or have not paid taxes or social security contributions. this is a significant step forward compared with previous legislation, although it still allows for exceptions. however, i am critical of the inclusion of social and environmental considerations, for example, and not even quality, as a minimum requirement, as mentioned in paragraph 15 (c). but on the whole, this is a report that improves the situation today. on the other hand, as regards the directive on concessions, i hardly know what to say. because the only thing i could be happy about is that at least the question of water has been left out of this sick ultra-liberalisation. nobody wanted this directive, nobody asked for it and nobody saw the need for it, except possibly the bureaucrats in the commission who were leaking information on liberalisation and sales. i would like to conclude by saying that i am very dissatisfied that these reports have gone directly to the trilogue without passing through parliament. it's a way of reducing democratic influence. we should at least pretend to be a democratic institution and then we should have the chance to have an opinion on such important documents. in the way things have gone so far we have not had such an opportunity, but it has gone straight to the trialogue and i as a member can only press 'yes' or 'no' in the end.
mr president, commissioner barnier has just said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in sweden, three million meals are served by the public sector every day. it's often the food that's the gold standard for our sick and for our elderly. i've fought for schools, nursing homes, hospitals to have good food on their plates and the ability to shop for good food and not just the cheapest option. i am therefore pleased that the focus is now shifting from lowest price to quality in the new public procurement rules. everyone has the right to good and nutritious food, including consumers who do not shop for themselves. now municipalities can buy locally produced food without hindering the common market, thanks to sustainability requirements and production method. the promotion of animal welfare is also an overarching objective of procurement, but not a requirement. i have pushed for us to get value for money - not just the lowest price - simpler and more flexible rules and shared procurement. a school should not have to buy toilet paper and potatoes from the same supplier. we are increasing the choice of small municipalities and the accessibility of small businesses. the transition to eu procurement is also a good way to reduce costs and hassle. i particularly welcome the fact that it will be possible to promote both innovation and gender equality in procurement. unfortunately, the red and green group have also added a number of unnecessary demands at eu level on the social dimension. it could cause trouble and cost everyone. the new rule could have been much better and clearer. much will therefore be done in the implementation and i urge the national authorities not to overinterpret the requirements to make the reality for the entrepreneurs more difficult. it's time to say no more gold plating.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank daniel caspary for his report. he has made a bad proposal better, or i should say less bad, because i am after all part of the minority - albeit a large minority - in the committee who wanted us to reject this proposal. i have three reasons for that. the main reason is that i do not stand up to the very principle behind it. the idea of closing or threatening to close our markets as a strategy to open up other countries' markets, it feels like an old mercantilist trade policy that i think has served its purpose. this was one of the examples that the wto took up last year when they warned of protectionism around the world. that is why i am voting against this report. the second reason is that we are talking about public procurement. public procurement which aims to give value to taxpayers' money, and in this context to exclude particularly low bids, is both stupid and expensive - especially in times of crisis when we have such a bad situation with taxpayers' money. i wonder what the finance ministers think of this proposal. the third reason is that i believe this risks fragmenting the single market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of regional authorities. on the whole, i think this proposal should be rejected, even though the proposal we are now discussing in the european parliament is far less harmful than the one originally proposed by the commission.
for the alde group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the liberal group supports the commission's proposal. in various ways the rapporteur - to whom i owe a thank you - and the committee - to which i belong - have improved the proposal. the reporting of community statistics is burdensome for the enterprises concerned, in particular small enterprises, and it is therefore urgent to simplify the regulatory framework. the exchange of confidential data for statistical purposes should be limited to a period of five years in order to take into account the outcome of the pilot study on the exchange of microdata in the framework of the simstat project. after five years, the commission should prepare an impact report. it is also useful to clarify and emphasise the importance of not increasing the administrative burden and costs for the member states, the eu institutions or the reporting agents. the exchange of information shall be as cost-effective as possible. better coordination between the statistical authorities and the european authorities is also needed. finally, two things, and they are more political. 1) the eu needs to ensure the highest quality of statistical data. we must be able to trust that the data is correct. i think we all in this house are aware that history has unfortunately shown the opposite, and there is reason for some caution here. 2) in the light of recent revelations of information falling into the wrong hands, extra vigilance and security measures are of course needed to maintain confidence and trust in the exchange of statistics. i think it's important in this context. it is possible that the scope of the directive will be a little broader, but i think that this is a political group that should also take account of the views expressed in this context. how exactly it should be drawn up, i leave to the tripartite negotiations, as the commissioner said. finally, taxation is a sensitive area. we are increasingly coming into taxation, but i do not think that is the area for this debate and this proposal.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr reinhard bütikofer, for his efforts to ensure that we reach the most common opinion possible, and i would also like to thank my colleagues - the other shadow rapporteurs - for their work. this report is important for the future because in times of crisis and for the future it is important that we have a common approach and a comprehensive vision of the future of european industry. it is easy to see that different policy areas such as education and business policy are not linked, but this is an attempt to get a better overall view. we are talking about reindustrialising europe 'again' does not mean going back to an old industrial policy, but it is about renewing and modernising and putting research, innovation, sustainability, energy efficiency and resource efficiency at the heart of the new policy. i'm from sweden myself. from my previous role as regional councillor and responsible for industrial policy in one of the regions of sweden, i have experience that industry representatives and trade unions look ahead and tackle the new challenges such as research, innovation and sustainability - that is where we succeed with competitiveness. energy efficiency and renewable energy are part of the future. the proposal in horizon 2020 for a specific focus on small businesses is also important. and we should not be afraid of openness, but should see the possibilities of exchange and trade within europe and the rest of the world, because it is through openness that we can also strengthen our competitiveness. these approaches are important in this report, because in the end we can never compete with low energy prices or low wages alone. it is through research, innovation and combined competitiveness and sustainability that europe can respond to the global challenges of the future.
madam president, i would like to thank you. industrial production is necessarily something that must constantly change and this means that we industrial policy-makers must also be open to rapid change. i would like to see this more clearly expressed by the fact that we at european level are better able to highlight what we as eu politicians can and should do in this area. this includes a research and innovation policy that is much more rigorous than today. it means investing in infrastructure, it means smart and strong trade agreements, it means investing more in even higher education and labour market training and it also includes a climate and sustainability mindset that is the competitive tool of our time in the marketplace. why do you think coal seams from the world's largest underground mine in northern sweden are so attractive? why does the united states want to buy, why does china want to buy, why does all of europe want to buy? yes, because it is the world's most energy-efficient coal sinter. that's the secret.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would remind the greek presidency of its responsibility and obligation to create unity in the council and to achieve results in the short time remaining until the elections in may. i would like to mention two things. a few months ago we saw the tragedy off lampedusa with hundreds of dead refugees. the need for joint action at european level was obvious. we must now do everything we can to enable frontex to carry out rescue operations at sea, and i would therefore urge you to persuade the member states to accept the commission's proposals, on which we in this parliament have managed to reach a political agreement. this is absolutely necessary for your credibility and for the credibility of europe. we also want to call for building on the momentum created by the end of the lithuanian presidency and for securing a mandate to open negotiations and enable agreement on the european trade mark package. mr prime minister, thank you and i wish you success in your presidency.
madam president, it is very nice to see mr samaras here. prime minister, we wish you good luck with your challenges. there are two challenges that i would highlight for you here today that are essential for the coming months. the first is to defend the freedom of movement. this is threatened by those who say that each member state will be flooded by people engaged in social tourism or undermining the labour market. they are wrong because, in the member states that received the most people from the new member states, migration generated more taxes than before. the polish plumbers were never a problem for the french economy, and neither today are romanians or bulgarians in the united kingdom, sweden or germany. they are coming to work, and they are doing that. you need to take the lead in defending this core of european integration and fighting the delusions of those who say that this is a problem. the second challenge is to use the experiences of greece and other crisis countries. policies of what i would call ‘spendarity’ – spending money to solve every problem – lead deeper into the crisis, but the reforms that some members of this parliament are still fighting for are creating the change that can help member states come out of it.
in writing. - i voted for the directive. since this power has already been transferred to the eu, we must do our utmost to improve the legislation in force on this matter. this update of the directive brings several important successes, such as the fact that the priority is no longer to look at the lowest price. this proposal will make it easier to take environmental and social considerations into account. in principle, the left party believes that this type of legislation should be at national level, but since the directive, despite its weaknesses and shortcomings, nevertheless significantly improves the previous legislation, i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for the directive. since this power has already been transferred to the eu, we must do our utmost to improve the legislation in force on this matter. this update of the directive brings several important successes, such as the fact that the priority is no longer to look at the lowest price. this proposal will make it easier to take environmental and social considerations into account. in principle, the left party believes that this type of legislation should be at national level, but since the directive, despite its weaknesses and shortcomings, nevertheless significantly improves the previous legislation, i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. organized crime in the form of poaching and illegal logging, as well as the illegal trade in wildlife, threaten the survival of many species. this illegal activity is very widespread and often finances other types of crime and acts of war. we therefore welcome the resolution's call for the establishment of an eu action plan against environmental crime and for the eu to invest resources in nature conservation. however, we would like to stress the important principle that eu action against environmental crime should not be financed by aid funds, the purpose of which should be poverty reduction. we do not want to see a development where resources for environmental crime are prioritised at the expense of poverty reduction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fact that the debate taking place here today is taking place at all is both sad and shameful. my parents' generation dreamed of an open europe without borders, and it is my generation that has made this a reality. if we were to start imposing restrictions and exceptions now, we would be embarking on a very, very arduous journey. in fact, many member states are dependent on labour from other countries and economies would collapse. unfortunately, this is forgotten. in the face of the impending election, there are certain dark men among us who are twisting the debate. they paint ghosts that do not exist but frighten people, and they do so to make cheap political points by denigrating eu citizens from certain member states and making them scapegoats. they incite racism and xenophobia. let us now stick to the facts. member states across the eu have benefited from free movement, as those who work contribute large sums to the host country's social security system. this debate should not be held, but while it is being held, let us break the legs of those who try to question free movement. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this debate should be about the great thing that we have achieved in free movement in europe. that you can take jobs and that you can operate across borders in any part of our part of the world. but the debate is based on a completely false premise, on prejudice, xenophobia, rumors, propaganda and headlines. that is not the way to debate an important issue for the future of europe. in 2004, there was a fear in france that polish plumbers would come and take the jobs, but the problem in france is not polish plumbers or any other plumbers, but the problem is french politics. in sweden, the social democrats threatened that there would be a massive social tourism - there was no social tourism. in 2009, there was a fear that there would be a massive surge of foreign workers dumping wages it didn't happen. in britain, it is not the romanians or the bulgarians who are creating the problems, but the british themselves. it is time to stand up for free movement but also to fight those who try to create a false image of the problem it does not belong in today's europe. we should be proud of our freedom of movement. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to ask gunnar hökmark: do you think it's decent to point out swedish social democracy as if we weren't supposed to stand for free movement? we were the ones who made the eu decide to open up as many eastern european countries as possible to join the eu. we did it before our first swedish presidency of the eu, we have done it since, we have done it all the time. i think it's a scandal that you're running with that kind of black paint.
the answer ('blue card'). mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when the swedish social democrats were in government, they were the only party in the swedish parliament that wanted to introduce a type of exception, and they lost. i don't think marita ulvskog can argue with me on that point. in 2009, marita ulvskog led the debate on whether we should be afraid of a flood of incoming workers from the new member states who would dump wages. we had that debate and i am only saying this because it is not just a question of the extreme parties but of the responsibility and the leadership that serious political parties must have. free movement has benefited europe and europeans.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for a few years now we have been demanding that article 359 of the criminal code be deleted and that the law be brought into line with eu standards. this resulted in last year's judicial reform, which, while removing the paragraph, introduced a similar one, this time called 234. at the same time, more than 97 percent of all cases were automatically prequalified for the new paragraph. after repeated criticism of these by both parliament and the commission, a new term has now been introduced in serbia, namely 'definition of the indictment'. it may seem that what i have just said are details, but you know, commissioner, that they are not details. that is what eduard kukan called the cheating of the reforms and we will not accept that. we will monitor this closely to ensure that the reforms are implemented in the way recommended by the eu.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr preda, for the excellent cooperation. the committee has worked under unusual conditions and i am therefore pleased that the final result has been well balanced. the fact that a country freezes its accession negotiations and dissolves its negotiating body is a unique event. i regret the actions of the new conservative icelandic government, but i still think we must respect their actions. we cannot push so hard that we risk the negotiations being shut down altogether. it is also important that the resolution stresses that the eu is not closing the door, but that we are prepared to complete the negotiations, which should be easier now that the eu has a reformed fisheries policy. the parties in the icelandic right-wing government have shown their disinterest in eu membership, but they want to let the icelandic people decide in a referendum whether to continue negotiations. however, they have not yet implemented this idea, possibly because opinion polls now show that a majority of icelanders want to continue negotiating. the need for discussion is clear, but whether this should be done by referendum or parliamentary debate is of course up to iceland to decide. i would point out, however, that there is always a risk - a risk that a referendum on continuing the negotiations will turn into a fight over whether to join or not. a debate on this will be held in the allting with an evaluation of the negotiations. in our opinion, the negotiations have worked well. iceland fulfils the copenhagen criteria without any problems and a new member state with a well-functioning democratic tradition, modern institutions and a strong civil society would be welcome. the resolution stresses that the evaluation should be done quickly so that we can know how iceland wants to proceed.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. sexual and reproductive health and rights are fundamental rights and part of human rights. it's about the right to one's own body, access to contraception and sex education. for hundreds of years, men and patriarchal structures have tried to control women's sexuality, women's reproduction, and women's access to abortion and contraception. when the right-wing government in spain wants to do what they want to do, they back away from the future. some say that this is part of the subsidiarity principle - yes, it is! the spanish people can adopt whatever laws they want in this area - there is no doubt about that. but as a politician, i have a duty to speak up when i see human rights violations being committed, wherever they are. i have to say whether it is happening in my own country sweden, in spain or anywhere else in the world, and then i have to act. fighting for the right of spanish women to their own bodies is a show of solidarity with the spanish women. but showing solidarity is also a symbolic issue for all the other women on this planet and that is why i am showing solidarity with the spanish women.
madam president, i would like to thank you. sexual and reproductive health and rights is an area where the commission has been lagging behind. in fact, hardly any of them have been heard in the ten years that i have been in parliament. it is true that the issue is sensitive and that it divides our continent and our political groups, but contrary to the opinion of the ppe and other colleagues, european citizens have a genuine interest in the respect of sexual and reproductive rights throughout europe. poor access to information, contraception and healthcare within the eu leads to the spread of diseases that do not stop at national borders. then, in fact, it is not many years ago that homosexuality was presented alongside pedophilia in the swedish school biology books. it is still happening in europe and hinders the free movement of homosexuals. the far right in europe feels that they have the wind in their sails and a majority in the council, the commission and the parliament are complicit in this. it was frightening to see the impact that the lobbyists had on the estrelab idea. the eu must dare to stand up for human rights even when dark right-wing winds blow, or perhaps above all when they do. our continent has seen both darkness and light in the field of sexual and reproductive health, but we must also go from light to darkness, which in the case of spain is unacceptable. give it up.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on freedom of movement, because it is important to send a clear message that this right is not negotiable and that the recent attempts to restrict it by some member states are unacceptable. we should not go back on our principles and should stop misleading citizens with false arguments for closing borders and discriminating against eu citizens. freedom of movement has nothing to do with abuses of national social security systems, which are committed by nationals as well. we need to look at the actual facts, which show that freedom of movement of eu citizens has been extremely beneficial to our economies and societies, contributing to europe’s development and growth.
in writing. − i heartily supported the resolution on eu citizenship for sale which criticises the citizenship schemes recently proposed in malta. citizenship cannot be bought or sold and granting citizenship cannot be a way to deal with financing member states’ public debt. a maltese citizen is an eu citizen with free movement and this concerns us all. it is important that parliament has sent a strong and united message asking the commission to verify the compliance of these schemes with european union principles and calling on the socialist maltese government to revise its current proposals with a view to bringing them into line with eu’s values.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the government of serbia wants to join the eu and the first negotiations with the eu will start in january 2014. it is up to the people of serbia to decide for themselves whether they want their country to be part of the eu or not. i shall leave that decision to a future referendum in serbia. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the european council conclusions of 28 june 2013 decided, inter alia, to authorise the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo. the government of kosovo aims to become a member of the european union in the long term. it is up to the people of kosovo to decide for themselves whether they want their country to be part of the eu or not. i will leave that decision to a future referendum in kosovo. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the newly elected icelandic government has postponed the accession process and is evaluating the accession negotiations and developments in the eu in preparation for a debate in the althing on these issues. the icelandic government has also stated that accession negotiations will not proceed until a referendum has been held. of course, it is up to the icelandic people to decide whether or not to continue the accession negotiations. it is not the eu's business to interfere. i respect the outcome of the future referendum on this issue. that's why i've lowered my voice.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. my starting point in the debate tonight is that we must find a smooth and somewhat understandable way of dealing with the question of better regulation. one of the main sources of criticism of the eu institutions has been the difficulty of understanding who is responsible for what and who to hold accountable when dissatisfied with the outcome of legislation. the lisbon treaty brought many simplifications, but we have sometimes tended to introduce new complexities into the system that make it difficult for an outsider outside the eu bubble to keep up. i think one such area is the subsidiarity test of national parliaments. the eu will legislate in the area where there is clear european added value and the member states where there is no such added value. it is therefore obvious that we have the tools to safeguard the principle of subsidiarity, which is very good. i think, however, that we should ask ourselves whether the yellow card model of national parliaments in its present form is really effective. there are no common standards governing the action of the parliaments of the member states when they issue these cards. the short response time may also mean that some parliaments do not have time to deal with matters that they are initially sceptical about, while others take the uncertain for granted and raise this yellow warning card without having made a full or reliable assessment. the current system is far from ideal, but it is clear to me that the work of change is under way and must be based on the system being simple, understandable, predictable and transparent for the citizens, and this should in no way restrict the involvement of the european parliament in this decision-making process. i also think that national parliaments must be able to object to proposals when their main points do not respect the principle of subsidiarity, but cooperation between this parliament and the national parliaments to achieve the common guidelines would be very desirable. i see a great need for it. to strengthen the quality of legislative work, we must also ensure that there are reasonable resources for quality assurance in all institutions. in times of economic hardship, it is easy to make populist demands for savings. we must not underestimate that there are additional costs of inadequate legislation that we also have to deal with, because badly designed legislation can be avoided if only adequate resources are available, which is needed in libraries, in committee offices, etc. i thank you for your time. i would urge everyone to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very concerned about the refit initiative. it can be seen that some parts are good in themselves. it is important to work towards clarifying and simplifying eu legislation. however, the initiative has been a disaster in terms of the working environment and the conditions of workers in general. in that part, it could be harmful. the work on health and safety at work in europe has been weakened for a number of years. we see many reports today of worsening working conditions. to continue to weaken would be the wrong course to take. it is not just that everyone must have the right to a healthy and safe working environment. good working environments are also a win-win for everyone - for employees, for employers and for the economy. i therefore believe that the commission should immediately reassess this part of the initiative. we in europe must do more, not less, for the working environment.
madam president, parliament’s reports show that there is still much to be done for better lawmaking and i would like to thank everyone, especially all my colleagues in the european parliament, for the work that they have done in this field. but i would like to raise with the commissioner the large and arbitrary changes in digital policies which have been initiated and supported by the commission in recent years. parliament understands that both member states and industry are perplexed by the rushed telecoms proposals. they diverge from previous policy in this field and have not arrived at this house well prepared. in the same policy field, the european commission is, in the e-identification and trust services regulation, just now encouraging members of parliament to pursue trustmarks, despite the overwhelming evidence from the european commission over ten years, as well as from the european parliament policy department study by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, that shows that this is not a useful endeavour to engage with at european level. i would like to call upon the commission to help parliament with evidence-based policy making, rather than going about in all sorts of directions and not helping the parliament with such an endeavour.
, member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the members for the work they have done on this directive, which i believe is a cornerstone of the digital internal market. i am convinced that it will contribute to the dynamism of this market by facilitating the entry of small suppliers and innovative services, as your rapporteur marielle gallo has just said. this text will also contribute to a wider distribution and a better choice of online music offerings in europe. i am therefore very grateful to each and every one of you, in particular to marielle gallo for the quality of her work and to the fictitious rapporteurs, and to the whole committee on legal affairs and its chairman, mr lehne, for having brought the work forward with a strong political will to reach a conclusion on this matter in due course, that is to say, at the time when the mandate of your parliament is about to end. collective management societies play a key role in the management of copyright and related rights. they grant licences for the online distribution of music. the dynamism and potential of this sector are beyond dispute. there are more than 70 authors' societies in the european union and one million authors are members of these societies. it has been found that online music sales in europe have increased from 200 million euros in 2004 to 1.2 billion euros in 2012. however, we also know that despite this, some collective management societies have had difficulty adapting to the constraints of rights management for online or cross-border exploitation. in the past, we have even seen some situations which are quite abnormal or unacceptable in view of the role played by collective management in the economy of the creation and dissemination of culture. i do not want to go into specific cases of lack of transparency or inappropriate investment. it is clear to all that work had to be done to improve the management of the operation of these companies at european level. we've made it a priority. i am convinced that this directive will provide the impetus for the necessary modernisation of these collective management companies, firstly in terms of their governance and transparency. the new provisions will give the beneficiaries a right to control management and will require the identification of the beneficiaries and the distribution of the sums collected within a maximum period of time. the directive brings about a real modernisation with more dynamism in the relations of companies with service providers. it lays down operating conditions which these companies will have to fulfil in order to be able to grant multi-territorial licences. finally, the directive gives these companies the right to be represented by other companies if they cannot meet these criteria themselves, which will reduce the number of licences needed to launch online services in europe. i think that the adoption of this directive at first reading, if you will, demonstrates your commitment to consolidating the role of collective management in the digital single market. i thank you in advance for the confidence you have shown and will continue to show in this new stage. we will then have to ensure that this text is implemented by the member states within a rapidly agreed timeframe, but also that it is appropriated not only by management companies but also by rightholders and users. this dossier, ladies and gentlemen, shows in this important, major and sensitive area that dialogue is possible on copyright, despite some difficult debates in the past and sometimes very antagonistic positions. it also shows that balanced solutions and dynamic compromises supported by a very large majority are possible. i should like to take this opportunity, mr president, to say a few words about the continuation of our work in the field of copyright at commission level. after the adoption of this directive on the management of collective societies, the directive on orphan works and the memorandum of understanding on end-of-life works, after our commitments in the framework of the 'licences for europe' dialogue to facilitate access to works throughout europe and by the greatest number, we have not finished our work on copyright. as we announced in our communication of 18 december 2012 on content in the digital single market, we are currently conducting a thorough review of the copyright acquis. we are doing this on the basis of serious legal and economic studies, and a wide public consultation which was launched in december. it is not surprising that this consultation has aroused and is arousing very, very great interest on the part of all those involved in the culture of citizens, of the people entitled to rights, including you in parliament. that is why, in agreement with my colleagues neelie kroes and androulla vassiliou, we decided, because this consultation aroused great interest and because we had set it too short a time, to extend the consultation period until 5 march next, so to give an extra month. i had heard this wish from many of you and from many people in the cultural and creative fields. we will use these contributions to feed into the impact assessment work and discussions on a possible revision of the eu copyright rules. as you will have understood, we proceed step by step, allowing the time necessary for consultation and dialogue, in a serious manner, identifying solutions based on facts and real problems where and when they exist. that is also why we have proposed to mr barroso, president of the commission, that this work should be continued, after consultation, by the publication of a white paper before the summer, probably in june, which will lay the foundations for a future adaptation of the copyright legislative framework, so that copyright lives up to its time, that of the single market and that of the internet. the white paper will aim to put forward a series of guidelines and concrete proposals for debate on the basis of an impact analysis. in fact, this will be a second stage in this exchange and consultation with all the stakeholders whom we, on the commission side, with neelie kroes and androulla vassiliou in particular, consider essential to making progress on this matter. this will enable your assembly, the day after its renewal, and the next commission, to take up this subject in turn, in order to carry out this task on a solid and transparent basis. in the same way, i would like to say a few words of clarification on another matter on which you have asked me in the past weeks about the procedures for notification and action. this is a topic that, while not strictly related to copyright, is very important for trust in the digital economy. it is clear that we must ensure that illegal content, not lawful content, is removed from the internet through clear, transparent and balanced procedures, in full respect of the application of fundamental rights. some of you have told me that you want a legislative initiative on this point to bring more guarantees and harmonization at european level and others have told me that you do not want such an initiative. it is therefore a sensitive subject, linked to fundamental rights, on which there are very divided opinions, as the consultations we have held show. i think that any initiative on this subject, whether legislative or not, must involve parliament fully. i do not think it is reasonable to do so at this stage of the legislature. we will not have time to do things in a serious, objective and transparent way. that is why i did not wish to put such an initiative before the college at this time. we'll have a chance to talk about it and work on it again. i wanted to say this, after having discussed it with many of you, thanking you for your understanding on this point.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank commissioner barnier and his whole team at the commission for this extraordinary work on the proposal. i would also like to thank marielle gallo in particular for the outstanding work she has done in this area. i also thank all my colleagues for the very, very good cooperation during the process. as we know, copyright has long been a highly controversial subject, but despite this we have managed to reach agreement on this directive across all party lines. collective management of copyright is one of the cornerstones of a well-functioning modern copyright system. in today's complex reality, it is virtually impossible for a rightholder to manage his rights himself. it is therefore crucial that the companies responsible for collective rights management are transparent and operate in the best way for their members. we are now putting in place important rules to guarantee the rights of individual composers and artists vis-à-vis the companies. the money collected must now be paid out as soon as possible, which is very important. the individual artist or composer should also be able to compare different european companies in order to demand improvements of his own or move to another, more well-managed company if he or she is not completely satisfied. the directive will greatly facilitate the creation of digital music services throughout the eu, giving us music lovers a wider choice of music services. for composers and songwriters, it means the possibility of their music being spread throughout the eu and reaching all 510 million citizens who live here. i am convinced that it will be beneficial for cultural diversity that many of our citizens will have easy access to music from all corners of europe. with europe's outstanding creativity and diversity, there is great potential. today we're putting an important piece of the puzzle in place.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, marielle gallo. i think she's done a very, very good job on this case. it is true, as our colleague mr wikström said, that the issue of copyright is often controversial in this parliament, which i am very pleased about, because i think it is an important issue that should be controversial and that we need to discuss. we have been very much in agreement on this particular issue, across party lines. the collecting societies are an important part of the economy of the cultural sector. they handle billions of dollars a year. unfortunately, there have been major problems in many collecting societies in many different member states. on the one hand, it is pure crime - there are a number of cases where money belonging to artists and creators has been misappropriated, and on the other hand, there are cases where it has not necessarily been about crime, but about the lack of transparency as to what money is coming in, where it is paid out, why, etc. that transparency has very often been very bad in many countries, in many societies. our hope with the directive - which i think we all share in the political groups - is that it will help to remedy this. so there will be stricter requirements for transparency as regards money and how it is distributed, how much cannot be distributed and what happens to that money. there will also be transparency in the case of the collecting societies' own costs, i.e. salaries of the directors, etc. and this is something that i think a lot of creators are going to be very interested in. i fully agree with commissioner barnier when he says that this directive is good in itself, it is a step, but it is important that creators and artists represented by the collecting societies take up this and make sure that it is pushed forward. it is also important that member states ensure that these laws are enforced, so that they are not just paragraphs on a piece of paper. the transparency we achieve is, i think, the most important, but there are other improvements as well. we're clearly stating that anyone who wants to has the right to use creative commons licenses and other non-commercial licenses, which is good, because some collecting societies have put obstacles in the way of that. in conclusion, i see this as a positive step along the way. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the excellent cooperation and i would like to thank the commission for what was a really good proposal when it came. now i think parliament has done even better.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very positive that we are now getting this legislation in place. there is an obvious need for an increasingly tough crackdown on fraud in the financial markets. the solution we have now reached is, in my view, the right one. the new system of criminal sanctions is, of course, about fighting fraud. there is strong evidence that the libor scandal was only the tip of the iceberg and that abuse is relatively widespread in several submarkets. it needs a big cleanup. abuse of power is simply not okay. however, the new system is at least as much about creating efficient, functioning markets where all players compete on equal terms. with clear rules of the game and a strong system of controls to enforce them, fraudsters are prevented from gaining an advantage at the expense of honest operators. this is a win-win situation for everyone. fair markets become efficient markets. effective markets are in turn good for the whole social economy. as the new regulatory framework is now being launched, it is important that we closely monitor the practical effects. i think it will work, but we need to make sure that it does. this is a crucial issue that we must not lose sight of.
mr president, i would like to thank you. during the financial crisis, major breaches and deficiencies in the internal anti-insider regulation of banks, funds and exchanges were revealed. for a typical employee or small business owner to dare to put their savings on the stock exchange, they must have a high level of confidence that the rules are being followed. therefore, confidence in the financial markets among small savers and small entrepreneurs must be restored. trust, trust, is very important. there must be a stable regulatory framework, effective supervision of trade and of market players. this is why, as has been said here, common european rules and common supervision of the financial market are needed. even if there is legislation in place, it is basically about attitudes and behaviours. there must be good judgment. strict codes of conduct and eu law cannot replace good morals and integrity, as commissioner barnier was keen to point out. most people in the financial industry are hard-working, honest people and not crooks, but the industry it's clear that this is extremely important has to clean up its mess. i agree with my colleague olle ludvigsson on that. the penalties for violating the rules must have been severe. high fines or jail time are needed to get to the bad guys, the criminals. mr. president, i would like to say thank you to arlene mccarthy. i have always appreciated her frank and tough style. we have not always agreed, but she has been a highly appreciated colleague.
mr president, i supported the regulation to simplify the acceptance of documents between member states, because this is a way to facilitate freedom of movement. millions of citizens need to have birth certificates, death certificates, residence permits, real estate documents and driving licences, and have to go through endless bureaucracy to get them. so i think that we should actually increase the list of documents that can be accepted without legal certification in europe. the problem is not so much one of fraud and falsification. in my political group, the epp, i have been responsible for the internal market information system. this is a digital platform where member states can check whether or not documents are officially registered and whether they are false. if we can make it more possible for citizens in europe to transfer documents through the imi, we will have guarantees against falsification.
mr president, the declaration of vote is on the issue of explanation of copyright and related rights in musical works online. i wonder what mr hannan’s intervention has to do with it, since not a single word was related to it. i think members of parliament should keep to the subject when they speak.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the verts/ale amendment to delete paragraph 29 of the report. we agree that the existing system of subsidiarity and proportionality checks carried out by national parliaments may need to be revised, but we believe that this should be done according to a model which is more clearly oriented towards active and transparent dialogue between the different levels than that described in paragraph 29.
in writing. - i support the report's views on the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality. they are fundamental principles of eu law and it should be examined how the scrutiny of national parliaments can be improved and strengthened. however, i chose to vote against the report because it contains a number of articles on strengthening the role of impact assessments in the legislative process, going so far as to require that the commission's legislative proposals must be fully consistent with the impact assessments carried out. it's totally unreasonable. an assessment is not an absolute truth, and it should be politicians who make laws not technocrats. i am also concerned that the proposals to reduce the workload for smes may have a negative impact on workers' rights and health and safety protection. here too, the balance must be left to politics.
in writing. - i support the report's views on the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality. they are fundamental principles of eu law and it should be examined how the scrutiny of national parliaments can be improved and strengthened. however, i chose to vote against the report because it contains a number of articles on strengthening the role of impact assessments in the legislative process. it goes so far as to require that the commission's legislative proposals must be in full accordance with the impact assessments carried out. it's totally unreasonable. an assessment is not an absolute truth, and it should be politicians who make laws not technocrats. i am also concerned that the proposals to reduce the workload for smes may have a negative impact on workers' rights and health and safety protection. here too, the balance must be left to politics.
mr president, i supported the roadmap against homophobia wholeheartedly, because it is important that parliament takes a strong stand against all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation. the strategy includes concrete actions to make sure that lgbt people are respected and are not discriminated against in employment, health, education, everywhere in society. i was sorry to receive all these mails about voting against the report, because i think it is really misleading. it is not about being against family values or traditional values. it is definitely not about giving special rights. it is about equal treatment and equal rights. at a time when we unfortunately have rising extremism in europe, there are people who are stigmatised, excluded, blamed, hated and even harassed, just because they are different. so this report is about respecting differences and ensuring that people have the same human dignity, and it is about time to stand up more for respect for diversity in europe.
in writing. - efficient and reliable delivery services are an important pillar of a well-functioning common e-commerce market in europe. deliveries affect the confidence between trader and consumer. we consumers often worry about the goods not arriving, we are sometimes uncertain about the rules on complaints and we react to the fact that prices vary greatly across borders. we have therefore stressed the importance of increasing transparency in the services and prices and the quality of the services offered. we must open up more competition across borders and make it easier for new players to enter the market in another european country. we must fight protectionism in the industry to make cross-border e-commerce a reality. i welcome the fact that we are promoting innovative solutions and interoperability with common standards. to create a dynamic market for parcel delivery, we will break down barriers not overregulate.
rapporteur. - mr president, i will do this in english because it will be a lengthy and complicated debate. first of all, i would like to thank everybody who has been working on this file with me; it has been a momentous task. we have been reviewing the most controversial part of european trade policy: the trade defence instruments, which normally come upon us as anti-dumping tariffs. this is something that is moving higher and higher up the political agenda as we have more high-profile cases. the last high profile case was probably the 47% tariff on chinese solar panels, which i know has led to a lot of debate throughout the european union. we have done it in record speed; it has taken us six months to do something that normally would have taken more than a year. i must say – and i think i speak for all colleagues – that this has been pretty frustrating. we are not happy with the fact that the commission then chose to present such an important and big task to the parliament this late in the mandate, forcing us to work under such pressure. that has made it harder to make good legislation. we also have concerns with the dubious guidelines, about which we had lengthy debates with the commission. this is due to the fact that they were presented as one package. the guidelines and the regulation were presented as one balance. the guidelines have been living their own lives and changing. there has also been discussion over whether they should be adopted before or after the adoption of the regulation. despite that and despite the time pressure, the committee has managed to find good compromises in most areas. we have a total of twelve compromises, stretching from transparency to european parliament scrutiny of trade defence instruments. i just want to mention some of those compromises. firstly on transparency: we have introduced provisions for all interested parties to receive more information about the investigation. that is something that will be appreciated by all parties. we will also try to establish an sme help desk in the area of trade defence instruments that would help both importers and producers affected by trade defence instruments. we have also tried, as i said, to increase parliament’s ability to monitor the implementation of this regulation. we want an annual report from the commission on how they execute and implement this regulation. there are two things that the commission presented as ‘new’ elements of the trade defence instruments that we debated at length. the first of these was a reimbursement of tariffs that were collected during expiry reviews. that is something we decided to remove because, honestly, it involved more bureaucracy than it would have brought added value. the second thing that the commission introduced was an obligation to cooperate for companies under trade defence proceedings, that is taking place ex officio in the commission. that is something that we debated at length, but we concluded that it should not be an obligation, but merely a request from the commission. this is because it might be very burdensome to be forced to hand in all the material that is needed, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. with these compromises, we will have a substantial improvement of the instruments. it is worth saying that it is worthwhile to vote and to achieve these compromises, even if that is all we get, because they constitute a substantial review of the reform. there are two points, though, where we did not reach compromise, and those are the most controversial parts of the most controversial legislation: the lesser duty rule and the shipping clause. a clear majority of the committee did not want a shipping clause: a provision that would give two weeks advance notice to european companies before tariffs were introduced – tariffs that actually might affect them very dramatically. the lesser duty rule is a rule that makes sure that tariffs will correct the injury done to eu industry, but not go beyond that. a big majority of the committee wanted to remove that lesser duty rule. that is a mistake; going beyond injury would not only lead to higher tariffs and the penalising of trading partners but, more importantly, would increase the price of trade. higher tariffs would not only make imports more expensive, they would also make exports more expensive. i could go on at length to discuss the two controversial topics that we have discussed. last, but not least: we will have a result in the vote tomorrow. this is not the end of this process, as we need the council here. we need someone to cooperate with. therefore, i am very happy that we have the council present and that its representatives have chosen to stay for part of this debate. we need to know whether you are ready to cooperate with us, and whether you are ready to discuss and have an agreement.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me briefly react to what has been discussed here. first of all, mr fjellner made the comment – to a certain extent a complaint – that we came forward with this proposal so close to the elections. i would like to tell you that we have been working on this proposal for quite some time, because if you want to launch such a proposal you first have to start with a proposal and you need a public consultation, then you need an impact assessment, you need interservice consultation, and so on and so forth. it takes quite a lot of time before you get to the college. the house will remember that under the previous legislature there was also an attempt to fundamentally change the tdi rules and that procedure collapsed. therefore, before we introduced the new proposal we tried to find some common ground. it has nothing to do with disrespect for parliament and, on the other hand, mr fjellner, we have to work until the end of the mandate. on the proposals that have been made: as regards amendment 24 on the own-initiative procedures, i have no problem in making an exception for small-sized and micro-sized union producers but i do not want to replace the word ‘obliged’ by ‘requested’. either it is an obligation or it is not. i think it should be an obligation. however, i can live with the exemption for smes. as regards the shipping clause, i share the view that daniel caspary put forward here in plenary and i ask the council – and we will certainly cooperate with you, mr president of the council – to find a solution for the shipping clause. this is not a matter of ideology, it is about whether we can find a solution for a practical problem in a way that ensures that freight already under way does not fall under the anti-dumping duties. on the other hand, we must also be aware of the limits to this, so please try to find together with us a solution to that. on the lesser duty rule, either you have a lesser duty rule or you do not. i cannot foresee going further than the exception that i have put forward, which is the one on minerals. for minerals there is a good reason. it is very important for europe that we have free access to minerals at market prices. that is of crucial importance for our industry. we see more and more often in the markets that countries are putting export taxes on minerals. that is the reason, as ms andrikienė mentioned, that we make this exception for minerals, but i do not see a good reason for the rest. if you go as far – as you now seem to do in the committee on international trade (inta) – as to add many other possibilities for excluding the lesser duty rule, you will simply have to skip the lesser duty rule entirely. in my humble opinion, what is now on the table does not make much sense. i would also like to answer a specific question that was put by mrs saïfi regarding the guidelines. we consider the guidelines a useful tool for stakeholders. they are based on past cases and, in a way, they cement the commission’s best practice. they have undergone public consultation and inter-service consultation and have been revised in line with the comments received. revised versions are now with you and with the council. i have also undertaken to discuss the guidelines with inta myself. dg trade looks forward to receiving comments, if any, from parliament and the council within the next few weeks. thereafter, the guidelines will again be re-examined in light of the comments received and will be subject to a second inter-service consultation. as you can see, the process is fully transparent and inclusive. it will take some more time and i do not expect adoption before april. what i do not – and cannot – support is that they will become part and parcel of the regulation itself. that would make them very inflexible and that cannot be the purpose of guidelines that are based on past cases. they inevitably need to have the possibility of evolving over time. i would like to thank everybody, and above all mr fjellner, for the quick report. the fact that we are not too late does not mean that he has not been very quick. that goes without saying, and i hope that we can keep up this pace and come to a final solution before the end of the mandate.
rapporteur. - mr president, before i turn to the points raised by the commissioner i would like to respond to mr wałęsa, who was talking about whether or not we should vote on the report as a whole. i would like to make clear that the intention to vote on the report as a whole is definitely not an attempt to be dishonest and derail the whole process. it is merely normal procedure. we do it 95% of the time, particularly at the end of the mandate, if we want to guarantee that it survives the end of the mandate. but let us discuss it and see if we can find a solution. the lesser duty rule is essentially what we are debating here. the commissioner is very clear in saying that it is not reasonable to remove more of the lesser duty rule than what is specifically presented by commission. but honestly, in a sense i would say that the commission kind of asked for it. either you believe that the lesser duty rule is an important principle and part of eu trade policy and trade defence or you do not. everybody will find another part that they think is important. you have heard – and you can see in the amendments and the conclusion of the committee – that there are a lot of other concerns besides the commission’s relevant concern about raw materials. you get what you ask for. this is what parliament is concerned about. as you know, i do not personally agree with that position but, tomorrow, we have to take a vote and make a decision. do we want to increase anti-dumping tariffs by, i don’t know, fifty or a hundred per cent? do we want tariffs that are higher than is necessary to rectify the injury? because that is what removing the lesser duty rule is: higher tariffs than the injury margin. personally i have come to the conclusion that the answer is ‘no’. because i am happy to help the steel industry, but i do not want to punish the car industry. i am happy to help the fertiliser industry, but i do not want to punish the farmers. however, if the commission says that this is not an important principle, parliament will go in the same direction and find exemptions. council has been here for the whole time during this debate, and i would like to say that i am very happy and thankful for this. because it can hear for itself that this is an important question for parliament. i do not know if the council has any comments, because we are eager to debate and discuss this with the council in order to be able to conclude this quickly. maybe the council could indicate whether or not it wants to discuss this as soon as possible.
mr president, the reason why it is complicated to introduce the ftt is that it is complicated to have the ftt. it has been tested. we had it in sweden, and it made financial transactions move to the city of london. today it would make the mayor of shanghai and the financial markets in other parts of the world very happy. there is an error in the description of the financial transaction tax. it is based on a belief that there is some free money lying about in the bank vaults and the financial markets, but that is not true. the financial transaction tax takes aim at those who are saving for their pensions or trying to finance investments in jobs and growth, who are exporting or importing or trying to finance deficits. there is no anonymous market paying for this: it is human beings and companies who are supposed to contribute to the growth, and that is why it is complicated and that is why it has failed in sweden. that is why it is complicated to introduce it now. if we are to have an ongoing debate, do discuss the complications, because the damages are bigger than the potential benefits and we are risking making the situation worse. we need more and better competitiveness in europe, not less. taxes do not create jobs, but investments do. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the interesting thing is that, when it was introduced, the social democrats in sweden had more or less the same argument. it is defined in a way that will create benefits and more tax income. today, financial markets are much more mobile, much more global and much more fragile in that sense. what i cannot understand is, why do you believe that higher taxes for those who are saving for their pensions and those who are going to invest in new jobs will create new jobs?
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think that what herbert reul is calling for - what he calls ambitious and realistic climate action - is exactly what we have had and what we are now clearly going to scrap. take the 2020 goals. we decided to reduce co2 emissions by 20 percent by 2020 and set a binding target. last year, we reached 18 percent. the same applies to the binding target for renewable energy. renewable energy has also made progress. in areas where we have not had a binding target, energy efficiency, it is lagging behind. but the result is, as described in the swedish media, a sunshine story and not so many sunshine stories are told about the eu project in my home country. however, climate policy is extremely important and there are many positive comments on it. now commissioner oettinger says that what we should be striving for is not something ambitious and realistic, but we should be striving for clear legislation, binding targets and predictability. the commission then presents a proposal which makes the legislation vague. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. you're destroying the climate policy that has been successful. i don't understand why you're doing this! my father worked in a steel mill in northern sweden for almost his entire life. it still exists today. i was there last year. there are fewer people working at the steelworks, but there are lots of innovative businesses and services around this steelworks, dealing with customizing orders, making sure that customers from different parts of europe and the world get exactly what they want. it's a modern steel mill, not a 1950s steel mill that all you old men here seem to dream of. \ * the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
(blue card) there are results, also presented in documents available here in the european parliament, which show that energy efficiency is slowly progressing. we set ourselves a very good target in the joint work we did between the itre and envi committees, namely 40%. a large, a roaring majority of people from all party groups called for 40 percent energy efficiency by 2030. i wish we could get it in place. and then things would happen that would affect not only climate policy, but also investment, modernity, jobs, growth. that's what this is about, too, not that we're being beaten out, that we can't compete because we're climate savvy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i will vote tomorrow for three ambitious climate policy objectives. i did the same when we discussed the matter in the committee on industry and the environment. i think that the most urgent thing is to have a clear objective in the field of renewable energy. it is an opportunity for the green industry to develop and to see energy issues as part of the development of europe. it is also an opportunity for small and innovative companies to develop in a sustainable way and to participate in the change in the energy situation in europe. it is sometimes presented as if it were a problem with a clear target for renewable energy. it is the possibilities of providing clear conditions for the industrial development of the future that are based on our being able to invest in a clear future. many of the renewables are now competitive without subsidies. it is therefore important to have three clear objectives.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we need at least 60 percent reductions in emissions to have a realistic chance of achieving the goal that almost everyone here is committed to, namely the 2 degree target. that's what we should decide tomorrow. you say that competitiveness will improve if we do not impose any requirements on industry, but what nonsense is that? you say growth will create jobs! well, growth based on using more fossil fuels, importing gas, oil and uranium, when an increasing share of our income will be spent on importing energy! it's financial suicide! look at the southern european countries, which have high net import costs for energy. no growth in the world will help them with any crisis as long as they are dependent on oil, coal and gas. renewable energy and energy efficiency that's where our export market is, that's where the jobs are, that's where the future is. forget the industrial policy of the '60s.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that after long negotiations we are now going to complete the work on the seasonal worker directive. i would like to thank my colleague claude moraes for a very good job. it is a shame that workers in europe, from fruit growers in the south to berry pickers in the forests in the north, are being exploited by unscrupulous employers and that very few employers can actually be prosecuted and punished when exploitation is revealed. as a social democrat, i am of the opinion that more must be done to protect workers from third countries from exploitation. even if it would have been best to have identical rules for all types of workers, regardless of the type of work they do, i still think that the agreement is a step forward. most importantly, strict equal treatment with workers from the country where the work is carried out applies in terms of pay and working conditions and the rules on sanctions against employers who use seasonal workers are strict. it also introduces the possibility of imposing multi-level liability, so that subcontractors can also be punished. nor do they prevent member states from introducing more favourable rules. now we will have to put pressure on the member states to ensure that these rules are properly implemented and that no loopholes are exploited.
rapporteur. - madam president, after consultation with my shadow rapporteurs, i would like to ask for the postponement of this vote so that we can start negotiations. if god and the council are willing, we might have an agreement before the end of the parliamentary term, so please could you postpone the vote?
madam president, i am unsure what the declaration by the rapporteur means in the following two reports, because we are talking here about minute details of how measurements, intervals and scales should be done. is it the intention of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection that we should vote more on these things, rather than less, letting these be acts where we can react when it is necessary? for this almost 200-page report on such technical details, i wonder what the purpose of this declaration is. i would like to know before i vote.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report on the situation of undocumented women in the eu. the report stresses the need to protect the fundamental rights of undocumented women and calls on the member states to put an end to the exploitation of labour, to take measures to prevent the spread of prostitution and forced labour and to provide access to basic health care. we strongly oppose the description of gender stereotypes as being more deeply rooted among immigrant groups, as stated in recital j of the report.
madam president, in europe we need workers from third countries to sustain our economy and it is very important that they have decent work. that is why i have supported the seasonal workers directive because it offers the possibility of improving the protection of workers coming from third countries for temporary work. at the same time, it does not change the laws of the member states and does not affect member states’ ability to decide how many workers to welcome and admit, depending on the needs of their national labour markets. the directive also gives workers more flexibility to change employer during a maximum period of nine months, and this is a good provision for the workers. it is very important to ensure the equal treatment of workers from third countries and national workers in the same sector, in order to avoid exploitation. i welcome this step forward. i would like to call on the presidency to move forward too on the other two important aspects of the migration package: the intra-corporate transfers directive and the question of the admission of student researchers and trainees, which are also very important for european economies.
in writing. - we social democrats are in favour of free and fair trade and support the rule of minimum tariffs. we do not believe that the eu should impose higher duties than the damage done to the eu industry. if exceptions to the minimum tariff rule were to be introduced, we believe that this could be justified where countries are lacking in ratification of environmental agreements and ilo conventions.
mr president, the efforts of the european union are not about trying to influence the future of ukraine; they are about trying to safeguard the ukrainians having their influence on their future. that is an essential difference and that is why we shall and must react to those who are trying to impose a policy of pressure on that country, as on any other country. what russia has been trying to do is unacceptable in this europe of ours. it is unacceptable because it involves political pressure, threats and economic warfare, and we must react. what president yanukovych has done so far – violating human rights against peaceful demonstrations – is unacceptable. what we are standing up for in ukraine is nothing other than european values in a european country – ukraine – as in any other country. it is our duty to do this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a few words about the horrors that are taking place in the sinai desert. thousands of refugees from eritrea and somalia, many of them women and children, have been kidnapped in the sinai desert by bedouin militias in this lawless country. they have been taken hostage, tortured, sexually exploited, their human organs stolen and in many cases murdered. what can the eu do for these vulnerable people? we must also be able to demand that egypt do something. these relatives who are then blackmailed in europe. if they don't pay $50,000, their families will be murdered in the desert. mr. minister, you must be able to do something to stop this from happening to the egyptian authorities. in sweden, there is a trial going on right now where two people are being accused of being the goons for these kidnappers and blackmailing a woman in sweden. mr. minister, could europol not act? we know that this is happening in many other countries in europe.
madam president, first of all, russia needs to open up its archives, including in relation to raoul wallenberg, because that also means opening up an important part of european history. secondly, russia will never be able to play its full role in europe, and as a european partner, unless it acts as a partner, instead of threatening its neighbours. this will mean limiting its own opportunities to act in europe but also deriving benefit from the dependence we have. dependence must not be seen as something negative: it is an opportunity in relation to trade, the free flow of knowledge, management knowledge, and all those things that come under the heading of cooperation. in order to achieve anything, we must be very firm: russia needs to accept its neighbours’ sovereignty. it needs to accept its citizens’ right to freedom and democracy, and it needs to accept that, in order to be a partner, it has to act as a partner. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i am grateful for the question. i think that russia must accept all the rules of the world trade organisation and must also be open-minded regarding its energy policy. so long as russia uses its energy policy as a means to influence other countries and other nations, and to undermine democracy in those nations, it will not derive the full benefit of the resources that it has, or the full benefit of the resources we have in europe. russia must respect fundamental rules regarding the economy and stop boycotting, or imposing sanctions on, other countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have already heard some of the criticism about what has not been done and what must inevitably be done if each of the countries and the region as a whole wants to belong to the eu one day. perhaps all reforms, agreements and dialogues should be deeper, faster or more precise. corruption should be eliminated, the social situation should be safer, civil society should be given more space and media freedom should be increased. but let me remind you that we are talking about a region which, because of the sarajevo shooting, will forever be associated with the first world war, a region which is still struggling with some unresolved issues from the second world war, a region which was at war again just under 20 years ago. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we are aware that it is not only the countries mentioned that have a responsibility, but that the eu also has an equally great responsibility, especially in the field of democracy and human rights, and in order to bring war criminals to justice and to increase trust between people. yet, from the beginning of its existence, the eu has been a magnet for cooperation, a guarantor of peace and freedom on our continent. this is what the eu is today. the commissioner said that the eu had not been awarded the nobel peace prize for its association agreements but for enlargement and its importance. that's right! as this is the last time in this term of office that we are debating the balkans, i would also like to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, a special thanks to rapporteur charles tannock for his excellent cooperation. we have made a good resolution on montenegro. montenegro has made great progress and is now in negotiations for eu membership. we welcome that, but to achieve broad support for this membership, dialogue with the public and civil society needs to be improved and, above all, the conditions of the media. the attacks on journalists are completely unacceptable. montenegro simply has to guarantee a free and impartial media. civil society and social partners have an important role to play in the run-up to eu accession. it is therefore important that the representatives of the organisations now be involved in the negotiations. montenegro has ratified the main ilo conventions on fundamental labour rights. although the rights of trade unions are generally respected, they need to be strengthened. the eu is now negotiating directly with the applicant countries on the most difficult issues, namely the rule of law. therefore, the government's action plans for chapters 23 and 24 are welcome. corruption and organised crime remain serious problems, so the implementation of these action plans and a thorough reform of the justice system is a top priority. it is also important to me that montenegro seriously addresses discrimination against women, against lgbt people, against roma. although montenegrin leaders differ positively from some other countries in their support for gay pride, further action against discrimination is needed. i look forward to welcoming montenegro into the european union... (the president cut off the speaker)
i really just wanted to thank commissioner füle for his commitment, because this is the last time in this term of office that we are debating the balkans. you never stopped believing in expansion. you have never stopped believing in the importance of the eu for peace and the balkans. you have worked so patiently to ensure that all the countries of the balkans make progress along this path. so i want to thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. many people think that the torture of women by means of female genital mutilation is something that takes place far away from our european member states, but that is not the case. half a million women in the eu and 125 million women worldwide are affected. the practice of female genital mutilation is a violation of fundamental human rights, an anomaly of our times and a barbaric behaviour that should have been eradicated long ago. women and their right to health have proved to be a sensitive subject here in the european parliament. i am thinking now of the much debated estrella report and the lunacek report, which we voted on the other day, when we have been spammed and it has stirred up emotions in this house. it is very surprising that the demand for women's right to their own bodies is so provocative, so frightening and so threatening that it touches such emotions. however, we must acknowledge that female genital mutilation is a cruel torture. it affects the victims physically and mentally for a long time, perhaps for life. we often criticize other countries for not doing enough to combat this horror, but we must also be self-critical. the fact that half a million women in our member states are subjected to this is nothing but a failure that we must address. we can't turn a blind eye to what's happening right in front of us. i would welcome an action plan from the commission on violence against women which addresses the problem of female genital mutilation. we must protect the victims, but at the same time we must work to prevent them.
madam president, i am truly happy that today, apparently, we are joining forces across political lines, with a broad consensus on a strong call to stop the barbaric practice of genital mutilation of women and girls. i also welcome the fact that the commission, with its communication, measures and funding, is committed to doing something about this. the figures have already been mentioned and they are heart-breaking: millions of girls are concerned – this is about children – and it is happening in europe. we have half a million women and girls in europe at real risk, so we should definitely treat this practice as violence against women and as child abuse, and we should therefore criminalise it. i call on the member states to treat genital mutilation as a crime and to step up both prevention and prosecution. every time we talk about this issue, the objection is raised that europe is patronising people. we are told: ‘you are imposing your values; you are not respecting our different traditions.’ but this is totally unacceptable because, as the secretary-general of the united nations, ban ki-moon, has said, we need to preserve the best in any culture and leave the harm behind. in order to leave the harm behind, we have to be strong in saying that violence is never justified by culture, tradition or religion. we are not imposing a model: we are standing up for universal values recognised and enshrined in the charter of the united nations, and we should all be very firm on that. it is important too that we work on changing cultural attitudes and that we support all the wonderful advocacy and awareness-raising activities for women’s empowerment which civil-society organisations are carrying out in our own countries. we also need to work more closely with professionals in various fields, such as health, education, prevention and social services, and to identify better the risk groups in order to be better able to prevent the practice. madam president, i have joined, and am committed to, the campaign that the commission has launched for zero tolerance on female genital mutilation. i hope everybody else will do likewise and that we will continue to take action on this together.
in writing. - air travel is vital to our economy, both for tourism and for jobs, and affects many of us in our daily lives. but delays, lack of information, and varied business practices between airlines often cause irritation and anxiety among travelers. i therefore support the new rules for air passengers to improve conditions for consumers. we have now struck a good balance between clearer rules on complaints and compensation, while taking account of the difficult economic situation of the airline industry. among other things, we clarify the definition of 'extraordinary circumstances' so that it cannot be misused as an excuse for not compensating travellers. in addition, we are increasing the requirements for information from airlines on delays and baggage costs. thanks to compensation thresholds and the prohibition of the 'no show policy', we are increasing consumer protection. at the same time, i urge consumers to be responsible and, for example, to inform airlines when they do not use a route in their booking.
in writing. - the christian democrats believe that it is reasonable to have three binding targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the share of renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency. however, the binding targets are entirely dependent on the distribution key between the member states. in sweden, almost 51% of energy production is already generated from renewable sources. to a large extent, we owe this to our waterways. other countries have a very different situation. in poland, renewable energy sources account for 8%. the situation is similar in other eu countries. in 2011, the polish deputy prime minister said that coal power is the future. the overall picture suggests that when the allocation key is decided later this year, sweden will probably continue to have to bear a large reduction in emissions, even though we already have a high share of renewable energy sources. that is why i voted in favour of a compromise proposal on two binding targets: at least 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and a combined target on renewable energy and efficiency, which the countries themselves decide to allocate. climate is going to be the focus, and then the countries that emit the most carbon dioxide have to change their production. that should be the objective, but it is one that is at risk of being missed by staring blindly at percentages rather than looking at what is most effective.
in writing. - it is important for the stability of europe's banking sector that a common banking union and a common crisis fund can be established, and we believe that sweden should be part of this union in the long term. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. we want to emphasise that we are against the use of the eu budget or national budgets to rescue banks in crisis. swedish or other national taxpayers will not be responsible for losses in foreign banks if we join the banking union. each eu country has a responsibility to manage its own public finances, as does the banks' crisis fund, which is to be financed by the banks themselves. rather than draining sovereign finances or increasing speculation, a crisis fund of banks' own money should encourage long-term thinking and enable a more stable financial market. for these reasons we voted in favour of the european parliament's amendments to the commission's proposal for a regulation.
in writing. - i support the resolution, as i believe that consumers have a right to the full picture when they shop. by omitting information on the place of birth of the animal, long journeys of animals could be concealed. at the same time, it is important that the design of the origin mark is feasible and does not unnecessarily penalize operators. increased costs of production will lead to higher prices for the consumer. nor is origin labelling itself a means of combating misleading labelling and food fraud, since fraudsters do not follow the rules.
writer. - mr. speaker, i have to go. i think it is good that we are calling on both saudi arabia and iran not to interfere in the affairs of bahrain in the way that they do, but we should not interfere ourselves by exporting weapons or equipment for crowd control that could be used in a way that is contrary to international law. we can thus avoid contributing to the escalation of a conflict ourselves. bahrain's security is not threatened by the internet, or doctors who want to help all the sick on a non-discriminatory basis, or activists who want to use their right to speak up for what they believe in. bahrain's security is threatened by backward representatives of the royal family and government who believe they can stop a tidal wave of human rights, open debate and democracy. it is threatened by the continuing use of the death penalty as a method, it is threatened by military courts, it is threatened by special courts. that's where the threats to bahrain's future lie. it's time to turn the page and now to invest in new ways forward, not to lock up those who criticize the old ways.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. 27 countries agreed, parliament agreed, the commission agreed that we should have 95 grams by 2020 and an ambitious policy. and then the german government comes in, after getting millions of dollars from the auto industry, and says, no, no, no, now we're going to tear up this democratically made decision, now it's the other bullets that apply. it is rather that such should be prosecuted for bribery than that it should be the basis for the future eu emissions policy for cars. it's not the 95 grams we have today. if you take into account super credits and only 95 percent of the fleet is allowed to count to 2020, and take into account the advantages of technology development that they can extra credit, then we end up at 100 [nbsp ]g in 2020 or even more. in addition, and this is a good thing, we are now going to tackle the test cycle, which is also deceiving consumers. why is it good for europe's competitiveness for europeans to buy more imported petrol for their money? the commission's own calculation shows that an ambitious policy in this area is profitable, both economically and for the environment and for europeans. it is the competitiveness we want, not an old-fashioned german car industry that cannot adapt to modern realities. who will export gasoline-fuelled cars in the future? it's nonsense to think that it's going to benefit us in any way. the only hope now is for the european commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal in 2015 to bring order back to climate policy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that we are finally voting on this trialogue agreement, because in practice, as i said, it was ready last summer and should have been dealt with at the same time as we dealt with the emissions from light trucks. but i'm glad we're now getting emissions targets for cars that should mean there's going to be some reduction in climate emissions. i am also glad that we are getting test procedures which allow us to measure the actual emissions. i consider this an incredibly important credibility issue. i think that these steps, which can certainly be criticised, but if we try to highlight the positive aspects, are also an important part of the european car industry's ability to defend its competitiveness when car manufacturers in other parts of the world compete to make cars that are climate-smart. it's a competition issue, it's not just something you're gonna try to get around. in this context, it is of the utmost importance that the commission keeps its promise to come back in 2015 with a long-term target for emissions reductions, and that the exemptions for luxury cars are also removed. we're not supposed to have those.
the rapporteur. - madam speaker, please. let me first of all express my warm thanks for the cooperation of the commission in this matter, commissioner barnier and all his colleagues who have been very, very pleasant to work with throughout the process. i would also like to thank the members of this parliament from all the groups for the confidence they have shown in me and the spirit of cooperation which has characterized our cooperation. we have managed very quickly, in record time, to deal with a very large and very complex subject and to bring it to a unanimous vote in the committee on legal affairs. our objective, and mine in particular, was always to reach an agreement at first reading with the council. thanks to the work of all the shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues, we in this parliament have really done everything we can to try to achieve that objective. thank you to all of you who have contributed to this. but unfortunately the council of ministers has not been able to reach a common position and we have therefore not been able to open negotiations between our institutions. although, of course, there has been a lot of work in the council, it is with great, great, great disappointment that i note that the leadership and the willingness to negotiate with parliament that would have been required to bring this matter to a close has been totally lacking. i am sorry to say that we must acknowledge the council's total incompetence and lack of will. as late as december i assumed that there was a good chance of reaching agreement at first reading, but now that chance has been squandered because of a lack of leadership from the other institutions and i am the first to regret that. i shall not go into the details of the proposal because we all know them very well by now. the idea behind this process is now to modernise and improve a system of trademark protection which is basically working well. we pour a drop of oil into the machinery to modernize this; it's all very well balanced and there's a need for it. the proposal before the house contains several improvements both in terms of the governance of ohim and in substantive matters, such as ensuring that freedom of expression is protected against attacks on the basis of trademarks. as rapporteur, i was very pleased that we were able to get unanimous support in the committee. we had important and good discussions between the groups, everyone had to give and take and finally we reached a good compromise that everyone could live with. it was therefore with great disappointment that i noted that the s&d and epp shadow rapporteurs did not respect an agreement that had been reached. we have held hands, and i thought that the cards were in the deck and that an agreement was in place, but apparently that is not the case and i am the first to regret that. the committee had reached a balanced position which would have improved the possibilities of combating counterfeit goods in transit through european ports and airports on their way to other countries, while at the same time we would respect international commitments to allow free transit for goods which are not counterfeit. the compromise included safeguards to guarantee the free transit of generic medicines, including those bound for developing countries. all this work is now suggested by the two major groups in this parliament that we should literally throw it overboard. the issue of access to medicines is of course primarily about patents and not about trademarks, but if, like the epp and the s&d, a definition of trademarks is made that is so broad, it will risk creating problems for the trade in generic medicines, as also noted by médecins sans frontières. instead of supporting the balanced line which we unanimously voted for in the committee, marielle gallo and bernhard rapkay have, after intense industry lobbying, chosen to support an extreme proposal supported by the luxury industry and the big pharmaceutical companies. i'm very, very, very upset about this and i just wonder: it is not that you should have voted for proposals which would have been ineffective in stopping counterfeiting, is it? you don't think we're in danger of throwing our agreement into the sea? you don't want this in your heart, do you?
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. brands are basically a good thing. they are about protecting consumers and making it clear who is responsible for the product they buy. that's good enough. but unfortunately there is some abuse of trademark rights where trademark owners have targeted artists and other creators of culture when they have used the trademarks, not to pretend to sell a product under that name, but just to use them in art. that is why i was very pleased with what we reached in the committee and the compromise which made it clear that trademarks should not be used to stifle cultural expressions. i was going to recommend my group to vote in favour of this compromise, but as rapporteur cecilia wikström says mrs wikström has done an extremely good job in moving these negotiations forward i also had the impression that we were all in agreement, and so i am extremely surprised and extremely disappointed at the two large groups epp and s&d when they come up at the last minute with an amendment which clearly, as i understand from marielle gallos' comments, is intended to tighten up the rules on goods in transit. we've been talking about this for a very long time. i thought we had an agreement, and now there's a last-minute amendment that's gonna tear the foundation of this compromise. i call on the strongest epp and s&d groups to withdraw these amendments. if they pass tomorrow, i don't see how i can recommend my group to support this package, because this is not the way to do it. if you have an agreement in a negotiation, you should respect it.
the rapporteur. - madam speaker, please. yes, i must emphasize once again that i find it very sad that our cooperation in the committee should end like this. i'm used to people trusting each other and keeping their word. i would like to stress that the epp/s&d amendment risks creating major problems for legitimate international trade and it could also threaten the development of our european ports and airports, which we need for future growth and development. these risks are being taken despite the fact that there was a unanimous proposal in the committee which allows for an effective fight against counterfeiting. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carrier's own transport. the amendments have removed all actual protection for these, and instead have put very vague wording in an amendment. now i call on everyone to vote no to this amendment and instead to support our compromise which we agreed on as recently as two months ago. since then, nothing new has happened, except that lobbyists have been running around here and managing to come up with some pretty dirty arguments that people have bought. i'm sorry about that. but overall, i'm satisfied with our fine cooperation. parliament has worked effectively to improve and modernise trade mark protection in europe. there is no need to weaken the report by running through lobbyists' cases for five minutes in 12 and adding ill-conceived amendments, but instead we could vote in favour of the report being adopted unanimously in committee, and we would have a clear and unambiguous line and maintain our confidence and cooperation. something that is needed in europe, especially in our time.
the rapporteur. - mr. speaker, i have to go. yes, if this directive is adopted, it will create improved rules for third country nationals coming to the eu to study, research or do paid or unpaid internships or volunteer work, or simply to work as au pairs. the aim is clearly to make the eu a world centre for study and research, and we must remember that those who are au pairs today are the researchers of tomorrow. in fact, despite the economic downturn in many member states and despite high levels of unemployment, many companies still have difficulty recruiting skilled workers. we in the eu are also facing a difficult demographic challenge with an ageing population, and we can see that we have been an attractive labour market for skilled people from different parts of the world, but that has changed and other countries in other parts of the world are doing better than us at attracting skilled labour, while our sometimes complicated bureaucracy and the growing scepticism in many member states towards immigrants can scare people away. it is important that we now improve the situation and provide clear, simple rules to increase the attractiveness of the eu. more foreign students, researchers and international exchanges will lead to economic growth and foster innovation, create more jobs in the long term and overall contribute to the competitiveness of our member states. the commission proposal brings together two directives, the directive for researchers and the directive for students, and introduces a wide range of improvements which have proved necessary after assessing the situation in the current regulatory framework, where many rules and conditions are unclear and where there is a great deal of variation between countries. in the course of the work on the report in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, we have further improved this directive, and i am proud of that. we want harmonised rules between member states on entry conditions and requirements, and clear rules and opportunities, and intra-eu mobility where people are allowed to move between our member states on the basis of the initial authorisation. the current rules are weak, especially as regards students, and if there is something that is good about the eu and that we really need to pay attention to and offer to others, it is this: mobility. we are introducing time limits: we are giving the member states 30 days to decide on an application and an extension of a time limit in cases where there is an appeal. we also want to see increased access to the labour market, where students will be allowed to work at least 20 hours a week, and after graduation or completion of research, students and researchers will be able to stay for 18 months in the country concerned to look for a job, start a business or otherwise establish themselves in the country. the provision for family members of researchers should also apply to family members of students, as students today are generally older when they complete their higher education. it's not entirely unlikely that they also have a family. the provisions for authorisation shall also be voluntary and not mandatory. i have to say that the negotiations have not gone very well and that the council has not yet reached a common position. this means that it will not be possible to reach an agreement before the end of the mandate. i have therefore decided, with the support of the shadow rapporteurs, to put the report to the vote in plenary in order to adopt parliament's negotiating position and to enable negotiations to begin as soon as possible during the next term of office. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work we have done together and for the very good results we have achieved.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, europe badly needs to attract talent. we need to win the challenge of global competition and attractiveness is a global race. i have therefore been responsible within the ppe – and i am proud and glad of this – for trying to actively engage in finding a solution to attract, train, develop and keep talent in europe to match the needs of our companies. our target has been to have a directive which has the right balance between facilitating and simplifying, and at the same time preventing abuse. i would like here to thank sincerely the rapporteur and commissioner malmström for their excellent cooperation. we have succeeded in overcoming fragmentation between member states, in overcoming the cumbersome, long procedures for admission and entry, and now we have a common, clear and easier rule that gives legal certainty and helps to prevent abuse. i would like to be clear here – this partly in response to my colleague mr[nbsp ]stoyanov – that we need to attract talent, competence and skills to europe. that will help growth and jobs in europe, not decrease them. we need to have cross-fertilisation, people-to-people contact. innovation and research needs to have new people, more people, including from third countries, but we also need clear rules. that is why in the ppe we have insisted that member states should continue to decide how many entry permits are granted. the national labour laws would apply – this directive will not prejudice the labour markets. so students and researchers would be granted the possibility to work but the rules of the labour market will remain national. they will also have to clearly show that they are able to support themselves and that they will not live on social benefits from member states. i hope that the next parliament will negotiate fast with the member states to be able to implement this directive which is very important for the european economy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i very much agree with you and this has also been the ppe’s line: that by facilitating and simplifying, we want to prevent abuse, and also exploitation. it is also very important that those coming to our countries are treated fairly and in a dignified way. all the statistics, studies and documents show that we need more people from other countries because we have a competence and knowledge-based economy. we need innovation and research and we need cross-fertilisation from other countries. it is precisely for this reason that we have put forward this directive: to prevent abuse. we now have a very clear framework with very clear rules and procedures on what the migrants coming to our countries need to show and to do in order to be admitted. we did not have this before. it is a step forward.
the rapporteur. - madam speaker, please. i think that sometimes you can hear the question between the lines: can we afford to take in researchers and students from third countries? my counter-question is: can we afford not to take them? can we afford not to see that they establish themselves in the eu through research or education? remember, one of these people is going to be part of a research team that solves the energy challenge of the future. one of them will be helping to solve the issue of a cancer for which we have so far found no cure. until now, many, many, hundreds and thousands of researchers have been trained in the eu at a top university every year. they have, at the end of their research, bought a one-way ticket and gone to the united states, to canada, to australia, to india, and now we see, also to china. we cannot afford to continue to provide the highest level of education and research and then just let them go. we must welcome them to stay here, to settle here and work with us all for growth, development and stability in europe, because we live in a global world and we have to adapt to it. this will be a key to success in the eu in the days ahead. i would like to thank you again for the excellent cooperation we have had with the commission and with my shadow rapporteurs, and i look forward to tomorrow's vote. i hope that everyone will vote by pressing plus on the split votes and separate votes that are left, and we will have a report as fine as the next one unanimously adopted by the libe committee just a few months ago.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, thank you very much. it is extraordinary that we have come so far as to establish or set up a voluntary corps. it is ultimately about solidarity and it is about efficiency. sometimes you hear people say that the eu should not be doing this or that. i cannot say that i belong to that category at all, but in this context, i think that no one can think of anything else but that the eu should be involved in this. and as i said, it's about solidarity. it's also a signal to our union, to the global community that we should help each other, we should care for each other. this is something from the lisbon treaty that we can really strike out. there is now, or will be, a list of specialists who are there in advance and to whom one can turn and who do not need to be established or sought. we know, commissioner georgieva, how good the disaster relief in the philippines was. there was coordination and it worked immediately, and we have made a lot of progress in this area, in terms of aid in general, so i just want to congratulate michèle striffler and congratulate the commission, and i was about to say congratulate us all, for this being set up, it is a step forward for solidarity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in 2011, i had the pleasure of being responsible for eu human trafficking legislation. there we fought to bring about some form of criminality in terms of buying sex from human trafficking victims. i couldn't, it was just sitting there. in 2016, member states will return to the parliament to discuss how they are working to counter the demand for prostitutes. it is therefore very important that we now take up this report and present it to the member states. it is not legislation, but a report telling the member states that the demand situation must be reviewed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the coordination of economic policies in the eu must be improved, i think we all agree. we're connected in a whole new way than we were before. europe must meet the global challenge, perhaps the challenges, with sound finances. reinhard bütikofer said stupid the king's comment yes, you sitting on this edge, you must answer for what the alternative would have been. what was the alternative for greece? for the countries that went into lockdown? why did the social democrats and the greens reform and liberalise labour market policy in germany? was it because you thought it was funny? because you wanted to fuck with people, or was it possibly to create conditions for growth? you know, it's so amazing listening to you guys, because it's like we're just standing there kicking each other and throwing things at each other. we all understand the social problems in europe. of course we do, and we suffer with the people who are having a hard time, but don't come and say that your options and doing nothing would have been better. it's your duty to explain what you wanted to do, too, and you said no to most of it. we are now in a situation where things are a little better for europe, and we should not blame those who have tried to put out these fires for creating the problems. that's dishonest of you, my friends, that's deeply dishonest. those who have tried to do something should rather be assisted and strengthened in their continued work.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for emphasising the need for fiscal consolidation, the need to further boost cost and non-cost competitiveness in the global economy, and the need for ambitious structural reforms. the problem for the european union economy is not, and has never been, fiscal consolidation – it has been the lack of fiscal consolidation. it has been the lack of structural reforms. that has created unemployment and deep social problems. we all know that the policy of ʻspendarityʼ which is advocated from that side has led to ever growing costs for interest rates, squeezing out important spending on welfare and important investments in infrastructure. yet still some of the colleagues here are defending more spending, more deficits, higher interest rates, more cost for interest rates, but every step which is taken in that direction undermines prosperity and competitiveness. what we see now is that those countries which have started to implement fiscal consolidation and structural reforms are emerging from the deeper problems. spending or ʻspendarityʼ caused high unemployment and high interest rates and undermined public finances. the medicine to deal with that cannot be more of the same. the fact is that countries where reforms were carried out were able to stay out of the crisis. countries where reforms were started are coming out of the crisis. but in the countries that persist there are still deep problems. this is why these proposals in the report are so important.
in writing. - i supported the new regulation on europol to increase cooperation between member states in the prevention of and fight against serious cross-border crime and terrorism. it is important to have an efficient agency that will be able to support the national law enforcement authorities in their actions and in their mutual cooperation against crime. at the same time, i voted against an amendment that proposed a permanent structure for the parliamentary scrutiny carried out by parliament, together with national parliaments, on europol activities. in the proposed structure, small member states and one-chamber parliaments such as swedenʼs are not represented, unfortunately, on an equal footing and are therefore discriminated against in the process.
in writing. - i supported the report on improving the conditions for entry for students, researchers, trainees, volunteers, school pupils and au pairs from third countries to the eu. we need to attract, develop and keep new talent to sustain our knowledge-based economies. common clear and simple rules will ensure legal certainty and fair treatment while preventing abuse. however i could not support, for example, the 30[nbsp ]days deadline for the decision on applications nor the 18-month period for students and researchers to stay in the member states after their studies to find a job. i also did not support family reunification and the consequent access to family benefits for students. i think that this is not justified for students, because it would mean, for example, that students from third countries would have access to school subsidies, which form part of ‘family benefitsʼ in sweden, when at the same time they are required to show sufficient resources. it would not be easy to implement, as they would receive benefits from the social security system, without really contributing to it. while ensuring fair treatment, and access, we need to avoid any possibilities of abuse of the system.
in writing. - i voted no on this legislative matter volunteering is a concrete and visible expression of solidarity which enables individuals to put their skills, experience and time at the disposal of their fellow citizens without financial gain. but the major global challenges, where 75 per cent of the 800 million people living in the least developed countries, for example, live on less than $2 a day, cannot be solved by another new eu instrument which is also based on the efforts of volunteers. the left party is opposed to the transfer of more power to the eu and believes that the eu's neoliberal aid policy must be stopped and replaced by long-term solidarity solutions focusing on poverty reduction and gender equality, generous support for srhr, a climate policy in which the rich countries and multinational companies take responsibility, a strengthened framework for arms trade, a reform of the imf and the world bank, clearer global rules for foreign investment, debt write-offs and fair trade rules.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the troika's austerity policy must be brought to an end. it is the main cause of the growing poverty and distress in the eu. only one twentieth of the proportion of eu citizens suffering from severe material deprivation could be helped by the proposed fund. a real change requires massive green investment to create new jobs and restore prosperity in the eu.
madam president, domestic violence, honour killings, forced marriage, female genital mutilation and sexual abuse are terrible crimes. it is about time to add action to the words we keep repeating about zero tolerance to all forms of violence against women. it is about time the member states ratified the istanbul convention on violence against women. it is about time the member states fully implemented the trafficking directive, the protection order and all the other measures, such as on protection of victims, that we have adopted, both to prosecute the perpetrators and to give better cross-border protection to women. that is why i have supported this report calling on the commission to create a comprehensive strategy for the eradication of violence against women. it is also about prevention, about fighting stereotypes, stigmatisation and discrimination, and about empowering women and girls. it is about developing a culture of respect for the dignity of women and girls.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats believe that the eu budget must be given sufficient resources to finance commitments already decided. at the same time, we would like to stress that the eu must first of all adopt a restrictive approach and provide these resources by redistributing them within the existing budget. we believe that the agricultural budget should be reduced in favour of those areas which are currently facing payment problems, i.e. the social fund, research programmes and erasmus.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) in order to avoid any misunderstanding as to where we stand on the question of whether the eu should be given taxation rights in the future, we abstained in the vote on paragraph 44. the time is ripe for a discussion on the eu's revenues and the forms of future financing. the eu's funding model is flawed, needs to be reformed and made more transparent. the eu's revenue streams must be reformed and simplified, from the current cumbersome system to a more efficient one. we are therefore proposing no change to the current system of swedish tax policy and taxes, that is to say that the swedish parliament should decide on them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. many people in this room believe in the market as god's gift to the people. perhaps that is why the commission and the committee on transport have not learned from the swedish case. because my country is one of the countries where deregulation has gone the longest. it has affected passengers, it has affected railway workers by laying down lines, increasing train delays and derailments due to lack of maintenance. rail is not just any form of transportation. the railways require long-term vision and shared responsibility, which means that they must be run in a cooperative manner. we should not accept that private operators are taking the cake and at the same time restricting the right to strike. that's why this proposal seems absurd. europe's railways need to be expanded, modernised, adapted to climate change and given more budgetary space. but the eu does not need a swedish train chaos.
mr president, i would like to thank you. every year, some 28 000 people die in traffic accidents in the eu and more than one and a half million are injured. the introduction of e-call in our cars is an important prerequisite for the work on zero vision in traffic adopted by parliament in 2011, which means that in the long term no one will be killed or injured in traffic. technical solutions such as e-call are an important part of road safety work and close cooperation with industry is needed to find the smartest solutions we can. of course, it is also important that we strike a balance in the question of the purpose of legislation. the saving of lives and limiting personal injury in accidents, and any breach of privacy that this might entail; i think we have succeeded in that, and i look forward to continuing the work of making our roads safer.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. this is a politically sensitive issue, and the question of whether intermediaries should be subject to more extensive prohibitions on commissions has been particularly sensitive. several countries, such as denmark, finland, the netherlands and the united kingdom, have introduced a ban on commissions. the swedish government is currently preparing to ban upfront commissions. there is a risk that insurance intermediaries do not act in the long term. the important thing is that the intermediary always acts in the best interests of the client. but the risk of a ban on commissions is that it leads to a monopoly of insurance intermediation by the major leading insurance companies and banks. member states should therefore be able to go further and introduce more extensive information requirements for insurance intermediaries in relation to commissions and fees than those provided for in this directive. this is important to point out to those countries which feel that stricter rules on commissions and fees are needed. let me continue in a language that perhaps more of you understand. two of the amendments from mr langen concern alignment to the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid). therefore i would like to ask the commissioner and mr langen: what does that mean in practice? because we will hear, and i have heard from my dear friend and colleague here, mr giegold, that amendments 4 and 5 will have no influence on the coming negotiations concerning the alignment of mifid and the insurance mediation directive (imd 2). i have heard the opposite. if we put in all these amendments from mr giegold 8, 9, 10 and 11 this will make the legal procedure more technical and difficult. i would like to hear, commissioner and mr langen, whether amendments 4 and 5 are not enough to secure the alignment of mifid and imd2? this is essential to how i construct the voting list for my group tomorrow.
member of the commission. - madam president, this debate gave us an opportunity to mention a wide range of issues relating to the health sector, and it is right and proper that this debate should take place, because health is an important element in our quality of life. i have always said that the financial and economic crisis should never lead to a health crisis in europe, so when the commission calls for better spending and also sometimes for corrective measures for economic situations which member states have found themselves in independently of the will of the commission, it is in favour of the sustainability of the health system. our health systems, because of demographic trends in particular, are not sustainable unless they are reformed; but how the reform should take place is within the discretion of the member states. of course we can give suggestions. we have set up a panel of experts within the commission to give advice on the sustainability of the health systems. but if we take greece, which was the first to seek assistance, we gave it assistance, and it was also due to the efforts of the commission and the work of the greek government that more people in greece are covered by public health insurance today than they were before. so this goes to prove that the commission is there to help governments. the commission is not a non-governmental organisation, because it has a different role: it is there to help governments. we have helped governments; we shall continue to help governments, and this health programme is a programme to help, principally, governments but also other organisations on particular health projects. i was very pleased to note that a number of meps mentioned the question of health inequalities. incidentally, the commission recently published a report on health inequalities, and one is pleased to note that in certain areas, including some which have been mentioned in this assembly (for instance, infant mortality), the gap has narrowed. if you ask me if i am pleased with the narrowing of the gap, i would say yes, but not enough. the real concern is that, although in certain areas the gap has narrowed within the european union, it has not narrowed between certain income groups, and this is of concern. although overall there was an improvement in certain income groups, the gap has not widened – but neither has it narrowed. i think mental health is assuming even more importance on the political agenda not only of the commission but also of member states, and i was very pleased to note in the last two presidencies that due importance was given to mental health. mental health should not be the cinderella of our health systems. it should be treated like physical health, and i think here much has been done to reduce the stigma relating to mental health itself. a problem which has been mentioned repeatedly by at least four meps was the question of the lack of healthcare professionals, and i would like to refer to what ms gardini and other members said at the beginning. is health to be considered like a financial albatross around governments’ necks, or should it be considered as an opportunity? i firmly believe that it is an opportunity. earlier last year we published a report called ‘investing in health’, because all the studies show that in the coming years until 2020 we will be needing hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of jobs in the health sector in the european union. at the same time we have 25-26% youth unemployment in some member states. so something is wrong, particularly with our education system, which should be tilted in favour of finding employment for people and encouraging them to take up jobs in the health sector, which are available. investing in health also means investing funds in order to reduce expenditure. right now we have established an e-health network within the commission, where governments meet with stakeholders and with the commission itself, not to reduce the level of healthcare in europe but to use the money which we have in a better way. in certain areas, e-health can maintain the same level of health care at a reduced cost. the same applies, for instance, to e-prescriptions, which in greece and portugal, among others, have also reduced expenditure. i was very pleased to note that most member states laid emphasis on the question of prevention. of course this is a very difficult campaign, because if you look at the health budgets, only 3% of the national health budgets in the member states goes to prevention, which is why we are putting the prevention of chronic disease at the forefront of the political agenda. the commission is organising a chronic disease summit just before easter, because this is also a way of reducing costs. we can reduce costs through prevention by fighting the four causes of the most common chronic diseases like diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer, which have also been mentioned in this parliament, and by encouraging more physical activity, better nutrition, the reduction of alcohol consumption and, hopefully, the reduction of tobacco consumption. i hope that tomorrow this assembly will approve the tobacco directive, which will help us in reaching our target of reducing the number of smokers in the european union by 2% over the next five years, which means 2.4 million fewer smokers. finally, on the question of solidarity, which was mentioned as regards the 90% average, i would like to say that the original commission proposal was that the 80% co-financing should apply only to member states which have less than 90% of the gni (gross national income) average, but of course the commission proposes, and it is up to co-legislators to approve – and sometimes one has to compromise in this respect. i still believe that, even though i preferred the original proposal, this compromise gives preference to member states which have less than 90%, because even those projects which will be taken over by member states which have above 90% must, in certain conditions and in certain cases, involve the developing economies of the member states with a lower gni. i would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate because, apart from the health programme, we also discussed general health issues, and this gives me a better idea of where the emphasis is being put by the representatives of our citizens. thanks again to madam grossetête and to all the shadow rapporteurs.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i just want to continue with the thanks, because i am really impressed with what has been done not only by the rapporteur, mr tošenovský, but also by the shadow rapporteurs and all those who were backing the team in strong cooperation. sometimes i have the feeling that time flies. in this case, to be honest, i did not have the feeling that time flies, for we are in a hurry and two and a half years is quite a period; but it can be adopted now, that is the main thing, and let us count our blessings. so the strong cooperation has a result, the child is born. you had a lot of patience throughout the whole process, and it has been a long process. everybody agrees – and that is also a remarkable point – that digital infrastructure matters, and of course sometimes you ask yourself: what is the real question? why does digital infrastructure matter? because it is not just about one sector, and it is quite important to mention that again. it is not only about telecoms, it is not only about ict, it is about the digital industrial world. it is about every sector, so to speak. digital infrastructure underpins everything we do across all aspects of the economy and in our society. we have to make it easier to interact between public administrations, businesses and citizens. we need to deploy, we need to modernise high-speed internet networks, and we must certainly remember that digital services can drive competitiveness and support citizens, improving their daily lives. to do that, we badly need infrastructure at the european level, interconnected and interoperable. but at the moment we do not have it. we have now achieved 100[nbsp ]% broadband – that is quite a remarkable figure – and all eu households now have at least a basic connection. yet i am focused on the next step, which goes beyond the basic: the high-speed networks needed for tomorrow’s services, for europe’s competitiveness and for europe’s growth. that is why we proposed an innovative scheme whereby private investors would take the risk in the knowledge that their investment would be secured by eu public funds: the digital connecting europe facility. the european council – and sometimes you need to be aware that life is not all pleasure – last year drastically reduced the budget for that facility. this happened some time ago, but i still feel sad about it, because it means a big loss for european broadband and european competitiveness, and because it signalled a need to find other ways to secure investments in digital infrastructure. but more worrying was the fact that at that moment the message did not get through. digital technologies are revolutionising our lives and livelihoods, they are helping public services modernise. building the infrastructure of the future today is as critical as transport or energy networks are today. i am absolutely convinced; i know many of you are, too; but others remain to be. we had to fundamentally reorient the digital connecting europe facility. it will now focus on digital service infrastructures and pan-european platforms to support policies from healthcare to heritage, from e-invoicing and cyber security to cross-border public procurement. in spite of the limited budget (being creative we need to think about it), broadband is too important to be dropped altogether, and i think we have a consensus on that. the facility will provide the right structures for investment, set up innovative financial instruments for broadband projects with the european investment bank, and provide dedicated technical assistance to make more projects ready for potential financial assistance. and of course this will only go some way to meet the broadband challenge. private markets will do a lot of the work, and we need to give them what they need, such as a durable framework that rewards investment, and cutting the cost of broadband roll-out and taking down the barriers in our telecoms single market. where the markets can still not deliver, local, regional and national authorities will have to close the financing gap, and i sincerely hope that the structural funds will also help here. on the involvement of a member states expert group, the commission considers that this does not in any way affect our prerogatives or the exercise of our implementing powers. we will add, madam president, a declaration to that effect to the final act. but overall this is a great result, the best we could achieve in the financial climate, and i again thank the rapporteur and his shadows.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the rapporteur for their very good work. i think it is important to state one thing in particular, and that is that the services of today would not have been possible with the capacity and speeds of yesterday. the changes we have seen were needed for this and by the same token the services of tomorrow, if we are to be in the lead, will not be possible with the capacities and speeds of today. that is why we need to raise standards and set them higher. i think that what is very good in this report is that we are paving the way for doing so. due to monies being reduced there are no longer the same opportunities as were planned for from the beginning, but what we can do is, in a focused way, to set the higher standards or the higher speeds that we need to deploy as soon as possible. what we can do is to ensure that we can have the pilot projects showing that this is not futuristic, it is realistic, and what we can do is to encourage private investors to follow suit because then there will be a change. and i would like to emphasise to the commission and to the commissioner that we need to proceed rapidly regarding all areas of broadband because they are crucial to economic growth in our societies. this is one of the few chances we have to create good opportunities for a new and modernistic wave of growth in our european societies but also to bind the european economy together to the biggest market in the world. the digital economy is the economy that will be the most competitive one and we have paved the way for it, and i would like to thank everyone involved in that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i want to thank my colleagues very much for the fruitful cooperation that we have had on this file. i very much enjoyed working with my parliamentary colleagues on investing in future infrastructure. that said, i have some criticisms about the way the commission is pushing forward its agenda to invest in more infrastructure in the member states and in digital services. it is clear that the connecting europe facility did not work well with the member states. the top-down approach opted for by the commission does not properly take into account the various models that are deployed in the member states, and it is clear, therefore, that they reject what seems to be an arbitrary and sometimes anti-competitive approach by the commission to telecommunications. i understand that the member states do not understand exactly what the commission is going for, and also that there is uncertainty in parliament because of the lack of clarity in the commission’s positions, including on the connecting europe facility. it was difficult to get the discussions under way, and i hope that in the next legislature the commission will not act in that way. in the verts/ale group we will reject the proposal when it is put to the vote tomorrow, because we do not believe that the small amount of money which is left for investing in the digital service infrastructure is very useful. for one thing, the commission seems intent on rendering illegal, or at least making it very difficult to deploy, the kinds of projects they have been investing in in the past. for e-identification, for example, we have had several large european research projects, even flagship programmes, investigating the issue, which were later not put into active legislation by the commission when they updated legislation from the 1990s. so that seems a useless waste of money by the commission. i think we need to be smart about the way we make digital policies. such policies are definitely desirable with good networks and with good services, but the commission really needs to show much better strategic thinking and consistency with their previous policies if this is going to be a sustainable [word(s) missing as microphone cut out] organisations to work with and imposed on the member states.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the digital infrastructure and its expansion are about jobs and growth, as i believe all the speakers have emphasised here. so we're agreed on this. however, several regret that the budget for the development of this infrastructure is being severely cut, and this seems to have come as a surprise. actually, it's not a surprise. we have a choice to make in the european parliament and in the council. we have a huge agricultural budget which many of us wanted to use precisely to redistribute to this type of job and growth-creating investment, which is also important for rural areas and agriculture. but that's where we're stuck. perhaps evžen tošenovský, who was optimistic, could help in the future and ensure that we get the necessary reallocation from the agricultural budget to this kind of innovative investment which actually means a lot also for regional development and agricultural development. the member states and the structural funds will now be the ones to be relied upon. at the same time, it is clear that there are strong market interests for investment, and we should not forget that. the situation is not completely hopeless, but it is not some god in the sky who has brought it upon us, but it is we in the european parliament and the council who have decided that we should have much, much more money for agriculture instead of redistributing it to this sector. these are facts.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have long fought for the idea that we should have the real economy at the centre of our political agenda. our common market is the way to growth and jobs in europe. we must break down barriers for business and make it easier for our businesses and consumers to trade across borders. i therefore support this report, which promotes free movement and aims to create an open and competitive internal market. but the commission needs to do better at putting the digital agenda and the services sector at the centre of the 2014 growth agenda. it's not about inventing the wheel, it's about making the wheel roll. i have written about this in my report, where i was responsible for the service sector in parliament. it is the same with energy, with transport, with public procurement and retail. digital services are the way forward and member states need to fully implement and apply the services directive to create jobs in europe.
in writing. - on 16 december, the eu and turkey took an important step by signing the agreement on the readmission of persons without residence permits. i am glad that we have today voted to formally approve the agreement. it is a key tool for the eu and turkey to work together to reduce irregular migration, combat cross-border crime and tackle human trafficking. the agreement also marks the beginning of our visa liberalisation dialogue with turkey. i have long campaigned to make it easier for turkish businessmen, students and researchers to travel to the eu. we must remove cumbersome procedures and promote contacts between our citizens. i now call on turkey to ratify the readmission agreement swiftly so that it can be fully and correctly implemented by both sides, and that we can move forward and build stronger bridges between the eu and turkey!
in writing. - we swedish social democrats abstained in the vote on the approval of an agreement between the european union and turkey on the readmission of persons without residence permits. we support closer relations between turkey and the eu and we see the value of cooperation on readmission issues. given the conflict in syria and the large flows of refugees from there, we cannot at the moment support a readmission agreement that reduces the legal pathways for refugees to europe and has a negative impact on the possibilities of applying for asylum.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats are in favour of investing in rail transport for the sake of the environment and to make it easier and faster to travel by train in europe. the railway market in europe needs to be coordinated more than it is today, for example with better integrated information and ticketing systems, and safety must be at its highest. however, we do not believe that a common railway area based on deregulation and competition can solve the problems we face. sweden and the united kingdom are two bad examples of railway deregulation in europe. the railways of the eu do not need more market thinking. instead, increased investment in infrastructure and a sound maintenance of existing tracks are needed. crossborder rail transport for both freight and passengers also needs to be greatly improved. a functioning cohesive railway that is kept free from market experimentation is important both for employment and for reducing the climate impact in the eu.
in writing. - the fourth railway package aims to open up the passenger transport market also in those eu countries which, unlike sweden, still have closed markets. we believe that the european railway market would benefit from being opened up and exposed to competition. this would lead to better efficiency and lower prices, and also create new opportunities for swedish companies to compete in other countries. the european parliament's vote, despite our opposition, adopted several amendments which will restrict effective competition in the railway sector and undermine the development of an internal railway market. since this sends the wrong signal to the railway sector and runs counter to the open market we believe in, we could not vote in favour of these parts of the package.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats are in favour of investing in rail transport for the sake of the environment and to make it easier and faster to travel by train in europe. the railway market in europe needs to be coordinated more than it is today, for example with better integrated information and ticketing systems, and safety must be at its highest. however, we do not believe that a common railway area based on deregulation and competition can solve the problems we face. sweden and the united kingdom are two bad examples of railway deregulation in europe. the railways of the eu do not need more market thinking. instead, increased investment in infrastructure and a sound maintenance of existing tracks are needed. crossborder rail transport for both freight and passengers also needs to be greatly improved. a functioning cohesive railway that is kept free from market experimentation is important both for employment and for reducing the climate impact in the eu.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats are in favour of investing in rail transport for the sake of the environment and to make it easier and faster to travel by train in europe. the railway market in europe needs to be coordinated more than it is today, for example with better integrated information and ticketing systems, and safety must be at its highest. however, we do not believe that a common railway area based on deregulation and competition can solve the problems we face. sweden and the united kingdom are two bad examples of railway deregulation in europe. the railways of the eu do not need more market thinking. instead, increased investment in infrastructure and a sound maintenance of existing tracks are needed. crossborder rail transport for both freight and passengers also needs to be greatly improved. a functioning cohesive railway that is kept free from market experimentation is important both for employment and for reducing the climate impact in the eu.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats believe that the railway market in europe needs to be coordinated more than today and that there is a need for an increased focus on passengers with better integrated information and ticketing systems. the safety of the railways must also be as high as possible, for both workers and passengers. however, we believe that the original proposal of the european commission in the field of safety in the fourth railway package gave too far-reaching powers to the european railway agency, without making adequate use of all the national knowledge and expertise available in the member states. the european parliament has now strengthened the proposal in this respect. the new proposal requires the european railway agency to work with national safety authorities in the issuing of safety certificates and to exchange experience between the national level and the eu to a much greater extent. we have therefore decided to support the european parliament's proposal.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats are in favour of investing in rail transport for the sake of the environment and to make it easier and faster to travel by train in europe. the railway market in europe needs to be coordinated more than it is today, for example with better integrated information and ticketing systems, and safety must be at its highest. however, we do not believe that a common railway area based on deregulation and competition can solve the problems we face. sweden and the united kingdom are two bad examples of railway deregulation in europe. the railways of the eu do not need more market thinking. instead, increased investment in infrastructure and a sound maintenance of existing tracks are needed. crossborder rail transport for both freight and passengers also needs to be greatly improved. a functioning cohesive railway that is kept free from market experimentation is important both for employment and for reducing the climate impact in the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we voted for eu-wide rules that affect us all and that can save lives. thanks to a mandatory e-call system in all new car models from october 2015, your car will automatically call the emergency number 112 if you crash. this can, especially in rural areas, reduce ambulance response times by up to 50 percent. in sweden we have long distances and many slums and the e-call system can be vital if a person becomes unconscious and can neither call the emergency services himself nor with help. i want to be clear: we have also strengthened the protection of personal integrity and privacy. it can't be possible to follow your car. the information about your crash site is only sent if you crash. at the same time, we have common standards in europe that help make it work. we have fought for road safety and data protection, and that is welcome.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support the goal of increasing accessibility to public authorities' websites. it is important that websites are adapted so that everyone, including people with disabilities, blindness and visual impairments, has access to information. however, i am not convinced that legislation at eu level is the right way to achieve results. much is already underway in the member states and there is a risk that extensive eu rules will create additional costs and close the door to innovative solutions. it is doubtful whether it would add value to detail the design of websites of state authorities, municipalities and county councils as well as state and municipal companies, associations and foundations throughout the eu. a more reasonable alternative would be, for example, to highlight the key services to be available and to ensure that public authorities improve the implementation of the strategies already in place in the member states. i am in favour of non-discrimination and greater transparency, but i have abstained on this report the way forward is not necessarily rules at eu level.
madam president, as europeans we are facing a more challenging situation than we have for decades. things can go very wrong, and they can go very right. what happens both outside and inside ukraine will be decisive for the future. this underpins a number of things: for russia it is a choice concerning whether it wants to destabilise its neighbourhood and be seen as a threat; to be seen as a partner in the european house or as an enemy of democracy. for the european union it is about acting rapidly: donors’ conference, visa liberalisation, the association agreement and stressing the open door to the european union. we also need to ensure that in ukraine the message is clear – to unite but also to reform. what happens in the coming weeks will determine whether we will lose these opportunities or not, as we saw in the weeks and years after the orange revolution. europe, ukraine and the european union must not lose that opportunity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are now debating one of the most important issues for the european union. remember, it was founded on the principle of the equal worth and fundamental rights of all people. eu membership requires fulfilling the copenhagen criteria, which require, among other things, a stable democracy and respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. in addition, minorities and their rights must be protected. but once you are a member, there is no mechanism to hold you accountable if you do not meet these founding commitments. in the last few years, when we have suffered from the economic crisis, we have seen that one country after another has violated fundamental rights, but the criticism is not as harsh and the measures are not as visible as if the economic stability pact had been violated. why don't we take this as seriously as we do? remember that the eu exists to secure the rights of its citizens, not the ability of its member states to violate the fundamental rights of their citizens. in recent years we have seen examples of member states violating the charter of fundamental rights. the clearest example is, of course, hungary, where they have set up a state-controlled media council - nothing more than a large censorship authority - where they have discriminated against minorities, restricted the independence of the judiciary and other things. with right-wing extremism on the rise, we have seen the erosion of basic rights in even more countries. it is therefore high time that an independent commission or mechanism was set up to scrutinise all member states and to propose sanctioning authorities when necessary. the violation of fundamental values must have consequences, both economic and political. i welcome this report which so clearly supports fundamental rights and ensures their observance, and i urge you all to support louis michel's report wholeheartedly, which is extremely important. *the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – i would be happy to furnish the answer to this question. first of all, the media council that they put in place is nothing but a big censoring authority. secondly, to have forced retirements on judges and prosecutors constitutes an undermining of the principle of the rule of law in a democracy in a european member state. hungary is a tremendous example of where fundamental rights have not at all been respected as they should have been, and for that hungary needs to take responsibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. unlike the watered-down version of the epp, i think this report is a good overview of the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2012. it contains a number of good sections on sexual and reproductive rights, media diversity, the situation of roma, the rights of asylum seekers and the rights of lgbt people. it also has an unusually strong focus on trade union and social rights, which i very much welcome as a social democrat. as rapporteur for eu legislation on trafficking in human beings, i also welcome the call to member states which have not yet fully implemented the directive to do so. unfortunately, the report contains very problematic texts on drug policy in paragraph 105. this paragraph seems to me to be very oddly placed in a report on fundamental rights. it is a very sweeping and vague criticism, and it is completely unfounded in the facts of the drug situation in the member states. given the enormous suffering and harm caused by drugs, the goal for me can never be anything other than a society completely free of drugs. that is why i shall vote against that point.
mr president, i fully support the european investigation order. what is it? it gives a member state the possibility to ask another member state to carry out investigation measures to resolve serious crime. to win our battle against human trafficking, child pornography, drug smuggling, terrorism or cybercrime and counterfeiting, we need to work closely together. criminality has become more and more complex, sophisticated and mobile. we should give better tools to law enforcement authorities to prosecute criminals, organised crime and criminal networks when they move cross-border. this is about recognising the action of other member states and helping each other to carry out investigations. national competences in law enforcement are fully respected, and national criminal law will continue to apply. the existing rules on police and judicial cooperation are simplified. it will be easier for our police and our prosecutors to operate efficiently. for instance, the introduction of clear time limits will speed up collection of crucial evidence from other member states. it is also important that we introduce clear safeguards to protect the fundamental rights of suspects and clear rules on remedies. increased cooperation between member states is essential to effectively fight cross-border crime. the european investigation order and the european arrest warrant are good examples of what we can do together at european level to really benefit our european citizens. with a european investigation order we increase the safety of our citizens, while at the same time respecting their integrity. this is an important step forward towards creating an area of freedom and security in europe, as called for in the stockholm programme.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in september[nbsp ]2012 the amount of ice in the arctic sea reached the lowest ever recorded by satellites. it was then about half the size of the average minimum from 1981 to 2010. ice covers a considerable part of the maritime zone around svalbard most of the time but now that is changing. if you go nasa’s website you can see how the ice is melting away at a frightening speed and new waters are opening up for transport, oil, gas exploration and fishing. of course this attracts a lot of interest from others. considering the different interpretations of the svalbard treaty dating from 1920, i am not surprised by the initiative by some colleagues to have this debate here in parliament today. but my concern is not the interests of fishing nations but the preservation of what is still pristine nature up there. the waters under the ice cap have not been accessible for more than 800[nbsp ]000 years, and of course we must take the responsibility before it is too late to protect these sensitive ecosystems. as is often the case, norway has a particular role to play in all of this. this week there is a meeting going on in greenland between the five arctic nations. during this meeting canada, denmark and the us are trying to convince russia and norway to establish a high seas arctic fishing moratorium, something norway has shown very little interest in. i am very surprised by that. i respect a lot of norwegian fisheries policies and of course norway is a neighbouring country to my country, sweden. but i would say that if any claims from the norwegian side on taking responsibility for the fishing protection zone around svalbard are going to be taken seriously by environmentalists – and maybe also by the eu – i suggest that norway sides with those arctic democracies that want to have a fishing moratorium on the high seas, and not side again with russia to exploit what should be left alone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner šemeta, did you encounter any problems when seeking medical treatment in another eu country? or would it have been difficult to transfer the pension? or to re-register your car in spain, for example? solvit is the tool that gives you practical help in resolving complaints or in solving problems with an authority in another european country. i am fighting for simple, common rules that will enable us all to enjoy the benefits of the single market. but when the rules are not properly enforced, or when the authorities are slow to respond, then you have somewhere to turn. in sweden, solvit is shot by the commerce college. they're doing a fantastic job, but unfortunately, this opportunity isn't widely known. i am therefore pleased, and i congratulate my colleague morten løkkegaard, that we are voting today to make it more familiar, more user-friendly and to focus on the needs of entrepreneurs. we want to increase confidence in the single market through solvit. it is the foundation of an open and dynamic europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the private copying levy is an outdated system that is completely unfair and completely idiotic. it's time we started getting rid of it. it started decades ago with a levy on cassette tapes and videocassettes. that's when lobbyists had managed to convince politicians that home taping is killing music and that the vcr will kill all film. since then, this system has expanded and become even more unreasonable. when i buy a hard drive to store my own family photos, i have to pay a fee to the swedish charity copyswede. when i buy a telephone to call and text, i have to pay a fee to the swedish charity copyswede. now the rapporteur, françoise castex, proposes that this be extended even further to cover cloud services as well. this is absurd! we're going the other way: we're going to eliminate the private copying fee. the first step is to vote against this report by françoise castex
in writing. - we social democrats welcome the agreement adopted today on the eu tobacco directive. the european parliament's decision means that europe now has a stronger and clearer regulatory framework for tobacco products, to the benefit of better public health. we particularly support increased regulation aimed at reducing smoking, especially among young people. as regards the swedish snus, our starting points have been good public health and that decisions should be taken in sweden. we have successfully pushed the line that it is sweden's parliament, not the eu, that should decide on the content and flavourings of snus.
in writing. - i abstained on the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu, because although i think that the european parliament can play an important role to give pressure and ask member states to respect fundamental rights, i do not support the new so-called copenhagen mechanism proposed in the report. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, should be the institution in charge of monitoring the application of eu law in member states, including the eu charter of fundamental rights. i agree that we need to increase cooperation with the council of europe, but we should not multiply new committees of experts, complicating procedures instead of facilitating them. with the proposed new mechanism there is also a risk that the assessment of fundamental rights would not be impartial and independent. we should absolutely avoid human rights being caught up in a political fight between left-wing and right-wing parties. the european parliament should stand up for human rights but cannot become a tribunal on the human rights situation in members states. respect for fundamental rights should be assessed on concrete and clear criteria, not depending on the colour of a member states’ government.
in writing. - we see private copying compensation as an important tool in cultural policy. in essence, this remuneration promotes a rich cultural life by ensuring that authors receive fair compensation for the private copying of their works. the private copying levy maintains a reasonable balance between the interests of consumers and authors. we note that private copying compensation schemes do not always work optimally in practice. there is therefore every reason to ensure that they are continuously developed and modernised. however, their total abolition is not appropriate at this stage. this is still the only solution available that preserves the essential balance between consumers and authors. no credible alternative solutions have been presented. whatever developments in this area may take place in the future, it is vital that personal privacy is safeguarded.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. the greatest threat to gender equality is not in the gender equality field but in the economic field. because austerity has hit women twice. first, by reducing public sector jobs, and then, as services in elderly care, preschool, school are dismantled, women are expected to take up the unpaid work. in view of this, it is logical that my colleague, mrs zuber, should focus her report on the crisis in the european union and its impact on gender equality and women's rights. because today we see how decades of struggle for gender equality and women's rights are being destroyed. insecure employment, discrimination in the labour market, increased responsibility for unpaid work, forced parttime work, reduced pensions and an increase in domestic violence. the eu claims to be a champion of gender equality, but in reality it is pursuing an austerity policy that is leading in the opposite direction. so we do not need a well-balanced report, as mrs delvaux says, but what we need is a new policy and a new way forward. for the present road, it leads to the brink of ruin.
mr president, i would like to thank you. equal pay is incredibly important, but there's a path to take before we get there that is incredibly crucial to ensuring that women and men live equally rich and equal lives. it's that there's a social responsibility for child care, that there's parental insurance that allows both the mother and the father to be free with their child when it's born, and that both the mother and the father can have a relationship with the children in the family. it is the basis of the migration that then means that women can get an education if they don't already have it, that they can get a job, that they have their own salary. it is an equal society from which all benefit economically, socially, for the sake of the children and for the sake of the whole family.
in writing. – for a long time i have been raising with the commission, most recently in my written question e-000606-13, the issue of the inefficiency of plant reproductive material monopolies. there are no quantitative or qualitative studies showing that certification systems and legal rights covering seeds bring benefits to the market or to biodiversity. this has been pointed out to the commission in a study they themselves financed, but when i confronted them on this issue they had no response other than that their own investigation was flawed. we know that these rules on legal rights and heavy certification requirements concentrate market power in relatively few huge corporate agents from a small number of member states. we would benefit more from a market acceptance of small actors and new actors, with low market entrance barriers. we should make laws with the intention of keeping market entry for newcomers as low as possible. but this requires the commission not to dismiss its own research, and to value competition. i urge the commission to rethink this initiative, and to be clever in its reform of the plant variety rights in 2015.
mr[nbsp ]president, public access to documents is essential for enhancing citizens’ trust in our work and bridging the gap between them and the european union. citizens have the right to know how decisions on their behalf are taken and to make us accountable for them. they have the right to know how public money is allocated and spent. at times when europe seems complex and far away, it is even more important to show our full commitment to transparency and openness. i am proud that parliament is at the forefront of this and that most of our official debates are public and web-streamed, but we need to do much more, especially with regard to the rest of the european institutions. that is why i call on the commission, the member states and the council to move forward with the regulation to improve public access to the documents of all eu institutions. let us open our doors. let us encourage citizens to participate more. let us make them feel that they are part of a community where decisions are taken for them in a democratic way. let us continue to work together for a more democratic and transparent europe.
deputising for the rapporteur. - mr president, apologies from mr kalfin, who cannot be here, so he has asked me to step in for him. first of all, let me express the gratitude of the rapporteur over the fact that an agreement on this very important issue was actually reached in such a short time. we had worries that it might take longer, but it is now in place. this will give the european investment bank the possibility to continue its operations without disruption, which is of course extremely important. the rapporteur also very much welcomes the agreement to keep the lending ceilings at current levels. that is one of the things the european parliament has actually fought for. the use of eu funds through the eib allows for a leverage effect of more funding, sometimes up to 25 times the amount we invest. that is a very efficient use of scarce eu resources. the rapporteur also thanks the council – in particular the lithuanian presidency, with which he has negotiated – for accepting to use external assigned revenues from the fiduciary account established for the facility for euro-mediterranean investment and partnership, to finance the additional eur[nbsp ]2 billion necessary for the restoration of the ceilings, as suggested by parliament. two billion might not sound very much, but if we consider what these funds can mobilise overall, it is very significant. from the agreement reached it is, however, clear that the decision to use reflows in this way is a one-off deal and cannot be used as a precedent in other contexts. the rapporteur is also very satisfied with the open and constructive work he has had with civil society during the work on of this report. ngos were particularly helpful regarding transparency and on social and environmental aspects, etc. in accordance with the treaty, the eib should endeavour to support the objectives of the union’s development cooperation policy, such as by reducing poverty through inclusive growth and sustainable economy and environmental and social development. the eib should also always make it a priority to strengthen the local private sector in beneficiary countries. there are a number of points which the rapporteur wants to emphasise. in the period from 2014 to 2020, the eib is encouraged to continue pursuing its greener path, by strengthening its emissions performance standards and launching a public review of the climate impact of its lending portfolio. the eib should also support investment projects in sustainable energy security and energy infrastructure, including transmission infrastructure, in particular interconnections that facilitate the integration of electricity from renewable sources. he would also like to emphasise that investments in the field of renewable energy and better energy efficiency should be preferred to investments in fossil fuels. financial agreements with individual promoters relating to eib operations should also include appropriate environmental, social, human rights and labour provisions. we should make an evaluation of the social impact of its operation, and human rights considerations will have a more central role in the bank’s lending. we also emphasise increased transparency, monitoring of the bank’s activities, democratic scrutiny and zero tolerance of tax evasion and fraud as being crucial. we emphasise dialogue with stakeholders and better alignment with the political goals of the european union in the respective regions, and the rapporteur hopes that the eib will continue to work successfully outside the eu as a top-rated bank and as an eu institution. we expect that the board of the eib will strengthen the administrative capacity of the bank in order to be able to accomplish all the new tasks. finally, the rapporteur wants to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs of the other committees, and the staff of the committee on budgets and the political groups for the excellent work on this dossier.
deputising for the rapporteur. - mr president, on behalf of the rapporteur mr kalfin (i am just replacing him), let me make a few comments. first of all, thanks to the commissioner, because what he said on the external mandate makes it possible for me to be much shorter. i completely agree with his arguments when it comes to investments outside europe. just think: is it good or bad for europe to have a more stable environment in ukraine, in north africa, etc.? of course it is good for europe. if we do not do it for humanitarian reasons or solidarity reasons, we should do it anyway for economic reasons, because they would be stable partners for us in trade and investments, etc. it is good for europe to help stability through investments in our neighbouring countries, that is for sure. that is my first point. secondly, one of the things we have tried to do with the european parliament report here is to improve the operations of the european investment bank (eib) through increased transparency, better monitoring, more impact assessments and really establishing the zero tolerance principle when it comes to tax evasion and fraud, etc. that would also be important for the future: to enhance credibility in those instruments. finally, my third point. it has been said now, when the financial framework and the eu budget has been cut, ‘let us put more emphasis on these instruments’. yes, but they cannot really replace the budget instruments. they are always a complement. they are a good, strong complement, but we really need to fight for the european union budget as well, which for the moment has big problems – as has been pointed out by helga trüpel and others – when it comes to payments for humanitarian aid, etc. we need to have both inside the union – i am the rapporteur in parliament for project bonds and i know their importance, but they cannot replace grants and investments directly from the budget. let us have both, because these can also be very useful.
madam president, i also wanted to tell colleagues that the swedish radio correspondent, nils horner, was shot dead this morning in kabul. it would be very good if we could also remember him in the context of the european day on remembrance of victims of terrorism.
in writing. - i voted for the report. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the main problem with regard to the high level of unemployment in the eu is the austerity policy advocated by the european commission and decided upon by the governments of the member states. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - we moderates voted today in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the prevention of money laundering, as it is an important means of combating organised crime and terrorism. the proposal is largely concerned with the establishment of central registers of account holders and beneficiaries of transactions, which is a justified measure in these contexts. as always with registers, however, it is important to respect the privacy of the individual and future anti-money laundering legislation must therefore respect fundamental rights and data retention rules.
in writing. - we moderates have today voted in favour of the draft regulation on the prevention of money laundering because it is an important means in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the proposal is largely concerned with the establishment of central registers of account holders and beneficiaries of transactions, which is a justified measure in these contexts. as always with registers, however, it is important to respect the privacy of the individual and future anti-money laundering legislation must therefore respect fundamental rights and data retention rules.
in writing. - i am proud that we have voted to develop e-invoicing and simplify procurement across europe. at present, few authorities use e-invoicing and too often problems arise between different systems in different countries. thanks to a common european standard, we are now breaking down barriers across borders. digitalisation will mean economic, environmental and time savings for everyone. it will make it easier for public authorities and, above all, for small businesses to participate in tenders. e-invoicing operating across the eu is an important step towards creating a better functioning single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report to improve equality between women and men in the eu because we still have such a long way to go to break the glass ceiling and we still have a considerable pay gap between women and men for the same job. promoting equality is also important to combat violence against women, to change the culture and the attitudes and to eliminate gender stereotypes. we need to join forces to empower women and increase their representation in politics and in economic life in all sectors. however, decisions concerning gender quotas or family policies should be taken at national level, not at eu level.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the report on equality between women and men in 2012. the report addresses a number of issues which have serious subsidiarity problems, such as pay, pensions and the design of training and school plans. we do not want the eu to have competence in this area, but we have chosen to support the report to draw attention to the problems of gender equality in europe.
in writing. - when the european parliament voted today on the report on equality between women and men in the european union 2012, i chose to vote against. women and men should be equal and have the same opportunities, in the family as in society in general. this requires the removal of structures, attitudes and traditions that impede and prevent genuine gender equality. we all have a responsibility for this. the work is very much about opinion-forming and attitude-changing, but legislating for gender equality through, among other things, gender quota systems and compulsory parental leave, as the report proposes, is the wrong way to go. i also think that the rapporteur is wrong to talk about what may or may not be included in textbooks, as the national curricula are and will remain a matter for the member states to decide. and as the report states, it is absurd to blame the eu's austerity policies and the troika for the widening gap between men and women. we all have a responsibility to work for gender equality, even in times of crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents of the eu institutions. we need to send a strong message to citizens that we are committed to openness and transparency, that we want them to know what we are doing here. i am not convinced, however, that the establishment of new eu bureaucracy, such as the transparency officer or the independent eu oversight authority proposed in the report, will be an added value for more transparency. we need a more proactive approach to transparency from all the eu institutions, in particular the council and the commission. the way forward is to promote a strong political will for a culture of openness in a constructive way.
in writing. - i voted yes. the report raises a very important issue. if you are for human rights, you must be against all forms of torture. torture must be fought wherever it exists in the world. the report also stresses the importance of eu embassies and their increased role as global actors. it is to present the eu as a state entity. i am opposed to the eu's development into a federal global superpower. i do not share the federalist positions on these points in the report.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is now 40 years since the first automatic data processing law came into force in sweden, which gave citizens a certain level of protection. it is time for the eu to renew its legislation and to ensure that it is passed, and the matter is no more complex or difficult in the council. it gives us the right to move data, to choose who we want to have our services. it gives us the right to have our data erased and it gives us the right to express consent. today, if you were to read all the terms and conditions of the apps and programs and things that you use, it would take 180 hours a year. we want to help citizens through simple symbols where you get the right to know why your data is being collected. you have the right to know whether they are being kept, whether they are being treated differently from their original purpose, whether they are being given to third parties or rented out. we are giving rights, so it is wrong for the council to block this development.
madam president, with this important reform we will increase personal data protection from account fragmentation between the member states and provide legal certainty. this regulation affects every aspect of our lives and concerns both consumers and companies, the way we access goods and services and communicate on social media, deal with marketing, get information and book travel. that is why i have been pushing to make it applicable in real life, with a clear definition of consent and with profiling that is technologically neutral and future-proof. we succeeded in striking a balance between higher standards of privacy, public access to documents, and freedom of expression. i am happy that my proposals to protect children have been included. information should be child-friendly and easy to understand, because teenagers may not be aware of the consequences and just ‘click it away’. to ensure constant verification, the industry should take its share of the responsibility. there are still, however, issues that need to be improved. the current definition of sensitive data may affect the swedish health register, and unless further exceptions to the right of erasure are made, medical research will be hampered. we also need to cut red tape for companies in order to really make sure that the development of innovation and a competitive digital single market can blossom. together we should move quickly in implementing negotiations with the council and improve the regulation to make it even more applicable.
blue-card question to sarah ludford. – baroness ludford, i was a bit surprised to hear you say that you were opposing the european cloud. before i became a politician i was a computer programmer, so i am wondering, could you please explain to me, if we continue to rely on us infrastructure and if the data is stored and processed in the us, how will you technically be able to prevent the nsa from simply reading whatever they want with no effort at all?
mr president, i would like to thank you. one of the things we're going to vote on tomorrow is whether or not to urge european governments to offer edward snowden protection and asylum. i ask all colleagues to support that demand. edward snowden is a hero. he has uncovered a gigantic spy system that is beyond anything george orwell could have imagined in his worst nightmares. it's never stopped a single terrorist attack, but it costs billions and it violates our human rights. this is not acceptable. the united states should be our friend, not our big brother. mass surveillance is not something that protects our democratic society. it's a direct threat to it. edward snowden is a hero, and it's not just our duty to give him asylum and protection. it would be an honor.
madam president, cross-border mobile crime is growing in europe, and it is crucial to increase cooperation at european level to fight cross-border crime effectively. there should not be any place where criminals can hide in any corner of europe. the mandate of the european public prosecutor should be limited to fraud against the financial interests of the european union, and that is good. however, the commission proposal raises serious concerns regarding the division of responsibility between the member states and the european union, and its added value is questionable. the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) is intrusive in national legal systems because it harmonises some of the sensitive areas of criminal law such as the admissibility of evidence or procedures for remedy against decisions taken by the public prosecutorʼs office. the confusion of competences between national authorities and the european prosecutor undermines legal certainty. the whole structure is not clear. how would it work in reality with national delegates? investigations should continue to be carried out by national prosecutors to avoid any overlap that could undermine justice. clear safeguards for the rights of suspects and data protection should be defined. i therefore call on the commission to reconsider its position and to present a new proposal that respects subsidiarity better. the fact that 14 national parliaments have issued a yellow card procedure cannot be ignored.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this package travel report is so important and could have been so good if people had really been put before the market. we social democrats have indeed tried to improve consumer protection for package travel buyers, but have not received sufficient support on the matter. the proposal does not sufficiently improve consumer protection for package travel buyers. unfortunately, it can be seen that this would actually worsen the situation in some member states compared to the present situation. firstly, the report risks undermining a number of national consumer rights. secondly, the report does not take sufficient account of new business models, which is worrying for the future. the proposal also introduces the possibility of limiting the compensation to be paid to travellers in cases where the package is found to be of inferior quality or value. in addition, the ceiling for possible price increases has been removed, which is not good from the point of view of consumer rights. i hope, however, that the report will improve along the way and that the new parliament and council will succeed in getting a more consumer-friendly report. i know i sound negative. i would like to conclude by urging you to vote in favour of amendment no 100, which gives travellers the right to terminate the contract before departure in the event of extraordinary events, such as illness, death in the family or an accident.
in writing. - food has many dimensions. overproduction and food waste are major environmental problems, and overconsumption at the individual level, especially of unhealthy food, imposes high costs on society and causes great suffering and premature death for many individuals. i am happy to support ideas that promote a healthier diet and therefore voted in favour of this non-legislative report, even though one paragraph mentioned the cultural value of wine, something we do not think should be in a report that deals with the importance of healthier food and drink.
in writing. - food has many dimensions. overproduction and food waste are major environmental problems, and overconsumption at the individual level, especially of unhealthy food, imposes high costs on society and causes great suffering and premature death for many individuals. i am happy to support ideas that promote a healthier diet and therefore voted in favour of this non-legislative report, even though one of the paragraphs dealt with the cultural value of wine, something we do not think should be part of a report that deals with the importance of healthier food and drink.
in writing. - i abstained on the directive on the protection of personal data processed by law enforcement authorities. while it is important to have high standards of data protection too when it is the police and the judiciary which process our data, i think that these rules are too restrictive and they risk undermining the important work of the police and the judiciary to prevent and combat crime. for example, it would impossible to use important investigation tools such as dna comparisons, because of the far reaching restrictions on the use of genetic data. we need to strike a better balance between privacy and integrity in order to protect citizens and let the police do their job, which is to serve and protect citizens. member states have different criminal and procedural laws which vary considerably. to harmonise data protection rules in this field is very intrusive in the different national legal systems and raises serious concerns of subsidiarity.
in writing. i'm all for free movement of people, but i'm against social dumping. the issue of non-discrimination in access to the labour markets and welfare systems of the member states must go hand in hand with the fight against social dumping. but the question of equal pay and equal working conditions, which is undermined by the laval judgment of the court of justice, is not addressed in this proposal. that is why i abstained from the bauer report.
in writing. - this report represents progress for the environment in several areas. i would have liked to see it also cover strict rules for the exploration and extraction of shale gas.
mr[nbsp ]president, mass surveillance should be utterly condemned. i am glad that parliament is standing up for privacy and fundamental rights, but the democratic scrutiny of intelligence is a national issue and should be the task of national parliaments. creating extra bodies in brussels is not the solution. sweden has a law – the försvarets radioanstalt (fra) – which is modern and has become a model for transparency and democratic scrutiny, and frankly it is not credible for this parliament to call for its revision. this call has been politically driven by a swedish green member, who was the only representative talking about it in the inquiry. it is not based on facts; it is not justified. to put conditions on the free trade agreement with the united states would be irresponsible: these are two separate issues. it would endanger thousands of jobs in europe. the same applies to suspension of the swift agreement on financial transactions and the passenger name record (pnr) agreement. nor is fragmentation of the internet the solution. i will stand up for the protection of personal data, but also for free trade and free… (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - the mass surveillance of european citizens and decision-makers is never acceptable, and we therefore supported the parts of the parliament's report which criticised the surveillance. however, we could not support the report as a whole. the limited information available comes from whistleblower edward snowden, and the european parliament should not make a final statement until all the facts have been verified. the eu and the us should now join forces to defend democratic values in the world and to boost economic growth.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the report emphasizes some basic civil rights, which is good. but the whole report is based on a federal approach, which also involves interfering with national education policy by formulating words such as 'calling on the member states to give more space to political education on eu issues in their school curricula, to adapt teacher training to this'. that's why i'm putting my vote down.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a friend of turkey, i am in favour of strengthening contacts between our citizens, especially now, and of moving forward with visa liberalisation. i am in favour of full eu membership for turkey when turkey is ready. but friends also have to be forthright when necessary. at the moment i am concerned about the developments in turkey. police brutality needs to be investigated. the internet act threatens free speech. it interferes with the individual's way of life and the independence of the judiciary is undermined. we must be clear that the principle of the separation of powers is not negotiable in a democracy. turkey has made great progress in recent years and the reforms are moving in the right direction, but changes must also be in attitudes. a new constitution must be democratic and inclusive to guarantee equal rights for all people in turkey. i call on turkey and the commission to continue a close dialogue to implement the necessary reforms.
mr president, the troika and commissioner olli rehn have done the necessary job. the troika acted promptly at a very difficult time. we ought to be cautious in trying to rewrite history. it is perhaps the national politicians who bear the main political responsibility, even some in this house i would say, including me myself in the 1990s in sweden. the national politicians should have acted much earlier in preventing the crisis. they failed to react in time. politics is about responsibility and accountability. cutting welfare systems is painful, but it is necessary to ensure stability and future growth. you can see improvements now. of course i do understand the hardships for many europeans in this crisis. i would have preferred the national politicians at the outbreak of the crisis to say ‘mea culpa est’, perhaps even some in this house. blaming brussels is, sad to say, a rather common way for national politicians and some others to escape their own responsibilities. (applause) \*(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – what i am saying is that the main responsibility for what happened in europe lies in the capitals of europe. it is not the troika that is to blame. i think that many politicians in athens should have been thrown out much earlier. i agree with you that the defence spending is of course awful, as is the relationship with some of the neighbours. i disagree as well in that sense. but the responsibility has to be put where it is, and that is in the national capitals and in the governments and parliaments. that is what i am saying.
madam president, i would like to thank you. one of the major problems in the work of the troika has been the lack of respect for trade union rights and freedoms. the social partners have been sidelined, collective agreements have been torn up, wages have been cut without reasonable negotiation. i can only say that this is completely unacceptable. i am therefore pleased that the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy makes such clear reference to these points. it is made clear that fundamental rights must be respected at all times. the autonomy of the parties shall not be restricted. instead, the parties shall actively participate in the crisis management. it is very important that these marks remain in the final text. for the future, the whole attitude towards the parties must change. strong and responsible trade unions, which together with employers develop solutions to problems that arise, are a great asset for the labour market and the economy as a whole. in fact, that is true even in times of crisis.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this must be the european parliament's main task: to stand up for respect for human rights and freedoms. it is very sad to read about the un human rights council, especially its members. it is shameful to associate the concept of human rights and freedoms with the name of some of these countries. we know that the un charter of human rights and freedoms has been signed. what's it worth? we would hope, however, that the reaction around the world would be different. now we're listing a number of countries here, and rightly so. we know that in every country, behind these headlines, there are individuals. there are families, there are children and there are adults. it may be difficult to say how many, but they are entitled to liberties and rights under the un charter. this is not something that countries can really distribute. these are universal rights that man inherently possesses. we should not harass countries if they can cope with these problems. the people shall have their liberties and rights, and that must be abolished from time to time. i would also like to mention the situation of children and young people and, of course, the situation of women, and in this context also mention the caste system. it may be that you have decided to avoid the throwaway in countries that call themselves democracies, but what do you do then to make it so practical and actually the case? i thank those who worked on this resolution. in fact, it is hoped that the un will have greater authority on these important issues than it currently has.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr. speaker, i have to go. the committee on human rights has managed to have a good cooperation with the rapporteur. one of the things we've been focusing on is moving the focus of this from military and deliberate attacks to the absolute most common reason for things not working, which is carelessness, incompetence and accidents. it is unreasonable that the train traffic in southern sweden is being knocked out by a flooded data cellar blocking traffic for three days because of such a thing. it's not resilience, and that's what we're trying to achieve here. then we have a couple of amendments from the libe committee which insist, for example, that when data is transferred to third countries, there should be the same level of protection there - otherwise we cannot transfer data - and that software manufacturers today do not take security seriously by always disclaiming all liability in all licensing agreements, and if you want to use any software you have to disclaim all liability. it doesn't make sense. so we think that there should be pressure on them to be included here, so that they actually build resilience and protection into their software.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think we have a good suggestion that might help. when the commission's original proposal came, we felt that it was perhaps a little too detailed, that a little too much was being understood, a little too much was wrong. because, as mr. schwab said, it's the critical infrastructure that we need to protect first. i think we have succeeded quite well in changing the directive in that direction. we've also made it less detailed and given it flexibility, because i think that's very important. this is a rapidly changing area, so you shouldn't put everything into rigid structures that are difficult to get out of. like i said, i think we're on the right track. but i would say that the most important thing about this directive is actually the legal basis which the commission has chosen to put it in. it is article 114. it is about the functioning of the internal market and it is all civil. as commissioner kroes said, snowden has taught us a lot. he has shown, among other things, that the threat comes from the military organizations, including those in our own member states.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. climate change is real. the mackerel war is one of the first concrete examples of the resource conflicts that we will see more and more of. natural disasters, sea level rise, water scarcity, animal and plant species moving or dying out - all of this will put humanity to the test, not least our ability to show solidarity with each other, to find fair mechanisms to help those affected and to share the resources we have. so how have we managed to resolve the conflict that arose from the mackerel's move north? not very well so far, i must say. in fact, so bad that in 2013 the international council for the exploration of the sea concluded that it is no longer possible to make a reliable stock estimate based on the poor data now available. only two fleets have reported the amount of slippage. according to the international council for the exploration of the sea, the effect of the unreliable data available, leading to ever-increasing errors in stock estimates, is now far beyond what has been understood. consequently, ices has not been able to provide a value for sustainable msy this year. i am in favour of the eu finding a just solution with iceland, norway and the faroe islands, but at the same time i call on all parties involved to take responsibility for the most important party in this conflict, namely the mackerel itself. a stock that was in a really bad way in the '70s, and it could be that way again. we must be clear that we are now in a situation where ices has not been able to give reliable advice on sustainable fish mortality. then it's everyone's responsibility to hold back. but i think some people should be more restrained than others. the fleets that have not even been able to provide accurate data on their catches and discard levels should not have access to the stock. the principle should be no data, no catch.
in writing. - i am opposed to the principle of the public having to pay for the failure of private banks. however, i voted in favour of amendments[nbsp ]8 and 27 to support the retrospective recapitalisation of the irish pillar banks in solidarity with the people of ireland. the eu insisted on placing the bank debt on the shoulders of the people of ireland. this was recognised by eu leaders in june 2012, but no steps have been made to relieve this unjust burden.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the criticism of austerity programmes is emphasised and the social consequences are described. but when it comes to action, the report is too vague and unclear. the compromise wording of the report clearly shows that the political forces which supported the tough austerity policy from the outset have gained considerable influence. for me, this is only possible with a clear rejection of austerity policies. i agree with the nobel prize winner in economics paul krugman, who in his book "end this depression now" already in 2012 stressed that we have all the knowledge needed to bring europe out of the crisis. massive public investment is needed to reverse this trend. if the report had been offensive, i would have voted for it.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the new rules on the marketing of radio equipment in the eu, as it is important to have clear, common guidelines for safety and health protection in europe. we welcome the fact that it is easier to trace dangerous products and that a number of administrative obstacles have been removed. however, we are doubtful about the way in which the requirement for standardised mobile phone chargers has been designed. we moderates want to simplify and reduce the hassle for consumers, while at the same time ensuring that the capacity of industry to innovate is not restricted. it is important that the rules are implemented in practice in a way that does not slow down the development of the it industry and negatively affect europe's competitiveness.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the new rules on the marketing of radio equipment in the eu, as it is important to have clear, common guidelines for safety and health protection in europe. we welcome the fact that it is easier to trace dangerous products and that a number of administrative obstacles have been removed. however, we are doubtful about the way in which the requirement for standardised mobile phone chargers has been designed. we moderates want to simplify and reduce the hassle for consumers, while at the same time ensuring that the capacity of industry to innovate is not restricted. it is important that the rules are implemented in practice in a way that does not slow down the development of the it industry and negatively affect europe's competitiveness.
writer. - mr. speaker, i have to go. the sinai desert is a lawless area. men, women and children are falling victim to human traffickers in the sinai desert as they flee abuses in eritrea in particular. every day innocent people are tortured and murdered. those who come out alive carry damage for life. the kidnapping, torture and murder itself take place outside the european union, but there is a possibility of influence. a recent report from europol last week proves that many of the kidnapped have family in europe. in my home country of sweden alone, hundreds of families have been affected. they can pay as much as $200,000 to get a relative free. i think that my own government, which i support, must act. europol should be given a mandate immediately to be used to set up a so-called 'joint investigation team'. europe can act. member states can act. egypt can and must act too. above all, a new democratic government is needed in eritrea.
the rapporteur. - mr. speaker, i have to go. this regulation captures an idea that is very simple in its essence. the e-id used by citizens in, for example, sweden to declare their income, to apply for student loans or parental insurance or to change their address should also work in other eu countries. just as my passport is a paper-based identity document recognised throughout europe, so too my electronic identity document should be usable throughout europe. that sounds simple and reasonable. anyone who has delved into all the details knows that this is easier said than done. there's some sort of discussion over there, or...? as i said, it sounds simple and reasonable, but anyone who has studied all the details knows that it is, after all, quite difficult to implement. but now we have an agreement with the council and we are going to vote on it during this session. the new law covers a number of different things, but the most important is still the practical benefit for the citizens of europe, as we increasingly deal with our contacts with governments and businesses via the internet. although there are very big differences - as the previous debates have shown - we still live a large part of our lives on the internet. this e-id will make it easier for those contacts. the second part of the act develops the already existing e-signature directive. electronic signatures and electronic seals, among other things, will make it easier for people and businesses to trade and do business across europe. if a company in the northernmost part of sweden - let us say kiruna, which is an hour and 20 minutes' flight north of the capital stockholm - wants to take part in a public procurement procedure in, say, italy or germany, then it can participate in that procedure via the internet by means of an electronic signature. it's a very important win. so what works in the paper world should also work in the online world. i think that is a good thing and we in the european parliament have also succeeded in focusing on some particularly important aspects. firstly, we have been able to implement the legislation quickly. the member states naturally want time to change course, but we have found a good compromise. the recognition of e-ids will now be voluntary for member states from 2015 and compulsory from 2018. for some countries it will be difficult, but it can be done. it's going to work! secondly: subsidiarity is important and therefore it has also been important to ensure that the national e-id systems are respected. sweden has its way, belgium has its way, spain has its way. the most important thing is that the systems can work together, that they can talk to each other and understand each other, so to speak. we have now reached agreement on that too. thirdly: we've strengthened the writings on data protection and privacy, which is extremely important. fourthly, the commission the private sector can be included in the e-id system, and not just the public sector, which a number of member states were totally committed to from the outset. in short, this is a regulation that takes things a few steps forward. it can contribute to jobs and growth, it will certainly do so to some extent and it will be able to make everyday life a little less complicated for us citizens. it makes online payments and e-commerce safer and easier for people and businesses.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i think it is important to state that the internet has been one of the most dynamic phenomena of the new world. it is fairly young and it is still developing. i am always struck by all those who want to block it from one side or another. there are states which want to block it, sometimes even operators want to block some services and now we have a discussion about blocking a number of services from a legal point of view. i think the important thing is that the internet must be free. that does not mean that everything is free just because it is on the internet. we need to be able to buy products, pay for services, pay for media, pay for a number of things, and we must be open-minded about new services. i do not want any operator to block or discriminate against services on the internet because then you are discriminating against the users, but i do want an opportunity for all those service providers to contribute to the development of the internet. this is the issue about finding the right balance because if we do not allow for special services we undermine a number of future opportunities and possibilities of the internet. then we are reducing it, we are reducing the freedom of the internet because it is a two-way issue – those who deliver and those who use – and we must meet on an open and free internet but with the ability to invest and purchase new things. i want us to increase the capacities and the speeds because that is the main issue, but i want us also to be firm that all new services, be they specialised services or the services that we know are emerging all the time, shall have the freedom of the internet. but it is not free if we are blocking the new services and that is why i think this compromise is of huge importance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, today we are discussing the future of electronic communications in europe. in parliament we have repeatedly expressed our commitment to the protection and promotion of human rights on the internet. we repeatedly express our concern for there to be competitive equal opportunities on the european markets, and we support innovative start-ups which can create a european digital sphere. an important step in this direction is safeguarding net neutrality. therefore i urge all colleagues to support the amendments on net neutrality which have been tabled by a broad coalition of political groups. nevertheless there appear to be loopholes in the legislation which could distort the market in an unfair way. the european union must find ways of combining successfully the european political principal of distributed, equal cooperation with the internet technical principle of distributed, equal cooperation. but where is the strategy for this? in all of the three proposals we see proposals which have been badly prepared by the commission. the lack of strategy and leadership from the commissioner has caused confusion. we now have security by bureaucracy rather than security by transparency, which would otherwise be universally supported by research. in future parliament should consider changing its rules of procedure to pre-empt these large, spectacular and hasty revisions of important base legislation, as with connected continent. we could consider not adopting first reading positions on proposals less than one year after they were tabled. we should consider not accepting proposals for which the commission impact assessment board has not given the green light. our institutions ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. - mr. speaker, i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues in this parliament, marielle gallo, the greek presidency, commissioner kroes and the officials of the institutions for all the work on the report on electronic identification, for which i was responsible. i would also like to thank my good friend edith, who is standing up now, edith herczog, for her excellent report, which is really about open networks, which i call state networks, where we are not competing with infrastructure but with content. that is precisely what the second report is about. let us hope that the reasoning about net neutrality means that we will vote tomorrow on a compromise, on a united position that means that we will not create differences in infrastructure. we're gonna compete with the content. we're going to get the net neutrality that the telecom package promised us and that also neelie kroes promised us when we questioned her before her commissioner. we want net neutrality.
member of the commission, in writing. - commission statement on the minimum level of controls report: sophie auconie (a7-0199/2012) since national audit, control and inspection programmes are established according to eu legislation on a yearly basis, if an increase in the minimum rate of official controls, based on a significant degree of non-compliance, were to be required according to article 22, it will have to be triggered in the next programme.
rapporteur. - mr president, i believe that, with the cooperation of our colleagues in the committee, we now have a good base for cooperation between the member states to set up a tracking programme for space debris. there was wide agreement between the member states and meps that there is an urgent need to protect our communications infrastructure. while the member states took some convincing to realise that it is better to track space debris than people, we are now looking forward to better cooperation – particularly between the large member states – in protecting satellites and other objects that we put in space. i would particularly like to thank my colleagues in parliament for helping me get this through, also with the help of the council and the commission.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of the greens/european free alliance, i would like wholeheartedly to concur with the statements just made by mr gerbrandy from the liberal group. it is, of course, entirely unacceptable that the president of parliament withdraws a text from a report which was correctly voted on in committee. having said that, i think we have also made some progress with the discharge reports, especially in the field of digital infrastructure, where we now have extensive texts for both the commission and for parliament recommending some better and more sturdy structures of procurement for the institutions for the future. while the commission has always been very good at producing recommendations against vendor lock-in and how to manage public procurement in the member states, it is very clear that it is not able to follow its own recommendations regarding information and communication technologies. therefore, parliament is recommending that the commission make smaller procurement contracts for ict and carefully consider what kind of infrastructures democratic institutions need in order to transparently and securely communicate with their citizens. also, speaking on behalf of the european parliament, i am particularly happy that parliament’s committee on budgetary control promotes and supported an ict security audit, which i hope will be taken by the administration as an opportunity to improve some of the network and information security problems that we have had. we have also encouraged the administration of the european parliament which has been at the forefront of some very successful projects like the at4am to collaborate further with the secretary-general of the commission in order to identify further improvements to be made in an open source and secure root to the base-level ict infrastructures of the institutions. i hope that the commission will find it in itself to endorse this opportunity to cooperate with parliament and that we can all work towards a better and safer ict environment. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – this is the same man who is now asking the european people to trust him with the running of the commission – the executive institution that sets policy for 500 million citizens – but who is not able to accept a very short text which makes some very relevant remarks with respect to his conduct as the president of parliament. the president of parliament really needs to decide how to act in a way which is in accordance with democratic transparent principles and also to show that he is able to take criticism. i am not sure i even understand the issues that our social democrat colleague is raising here. maybe that is because the president is from the social democrat colleague’s group?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the agreement reached by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the payment services directive. first, it implies that third parties are subject to a general regulatory framework in which the rules of the game are clear and fair for all. this is a reasonable and effective model. secondly, it means that the possibility of charging additional fees for card payments will be severely restricted throughout europe. this will save many consumers from the unreasonable charges that are now unfortunately quite common. thirdly, the position of consumers is strengthened in a few other respects. all of these are steps in the right direction. i think we have a good text to vote on tomorrow. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs who have done a good job. thank you so much!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to begin by thanking catherine ashton for all she has done, both in the enlargement process and in the leadership of the foreign service. the whole idea of a common foreign and security policy came about after we had to deal with the crisis and the wars in the balkans in the 1990s. at that time, we had no common solutions. we had to manage and mobilize our resources not only in diplomacy but also in economics and humanitarian aid. then other crises came and other lessons were learned and the member states were better able to coordinate. the european external action service is a result of these lessons. but the recent crisis in ukraine has shown that the eu must be even better at coordinating its interests and its foreign and defence policy. the lisbon treaty has also given the european parliament greater transparency in the eu's external relations, but it is ultimately the member states that decide on concrete measures such as sanctions. but we also need to be better at engaging in an active dialogue with our citizens and civil society. without this dialogue, it will be difficult to explain and defend our values. the development in our neighborhood should come as no surprise. we've been getting signals for quite some time, but we need to get better at reacting faster and acting in a preventative way. our common foreign and security policy must be political, with clear priorities, and not crisis management as has often been the case in the past.
the rapporteur. - mr. speaker, i have to go. this is another one of those cases in the european parliament with a long and complicated name: community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items. i don't think many people outside this room really understand what this means. but it is important because it is about the types of products that can be exported and under what circumstances, and it is about the types of products that can be used for civilian purposes to help people but can also be used for military purposes and to cause harm. if there is one thing i have learned in this process and one thing we have taken for granted, it is the need for more joint action in the european union. the crisis in ukraine and the complicated relations we have developed with russia are good examples of the need to act quickly and jointly. we export many products to russia, not least products that can be used for both peaceful and military purposes. another major challenge in this area is, of course, all the new products that can be used for civilian purposes as well as for military purposes. there are a lot of new technologies that can connect closed countries and open them up to the outside world, which is good for democracy, human rights and peace, but which can also be used for surveillance or for oppressing people. this type of product should also be covered by this type of legislation. here we have many substantial problems and challenges that require updating legislation, and the commission has promised that we will review the whole legislation on these dual-use products. this particular case is actually a practical case and a rather complicated technical case which originally concerned how we should adapt our legislation to the european parliament's codecision, so that we here in the house also have a say in how we should sell and export this type of product. we have also tried to speed up the process, which the crisis in ukraine has shown us is necessary. as rapporteur on this matter, i have found that the challenge has been the fact that we in the european parliament are not content to be told that there will be updates later and that all problems will soon be dealt with. we are impatient and wanted all the updates and modernisation of the regulatory framework to take place as soon as possible, and unfortunately we were stuck for quite some time in a conflict as to whether this was a technical matter and just an adaptation to the lisbon treaty or whether we were going to try to make all the necessary updates as soon as possible. i am glad to note, however, that we have found a compromise and a way forward with good will, and that we have managed to find a way of making a joint statement by the commission, the council of ministers and the european parliament committing ourselves to making the updates as soon as possible, and that we have also indicated what updates we think need to be made. the important thing is that we in the european parliament have a say in the matter. it is important that this be done quickly, but the most important thing of all is that we review the legislation. before that process, i want to send a clear signal to the commission: i think the commission should be bold and make sure that we get more harmonisation. i think it is unfortunate that different countries in europe take different paths and that different countries have different levels of tolerance for exporting what could be weapons to countries that perhaps should not have them. but i would like to thank everyone involved, the shadow rapporteurs, the commission, karel de grucht and also the presidency for their hard work in making this compromise happen.
member of the commission. - mr president, i do not have much to add. let me just confirm that we hope that by the end of this month we will come forward with a communication, and then, of course, that communication will be discussed with the next parliament. the commission will take initiatives on the basis of this debate, but that is, of course, also a matter for the next college.
rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner de gucht, not only for the cooperation on this file, but also for the cooperation that i have had or rather – and i think i speak for the whole parliament – that we have had with him during this mandate. commissioner, this might be the last time, at least for me, that i personally have a debate with you in this respect. i know you like a good debate so it is therefore in one sense sad that we did not have more conflict than we had right now. but i think that, honestly, you can be proud of what you have achieved. during times of crisis when we need free trade the most, the appetite for free trade tends to be the smallest, so to speak. people do not like free trade in times of crisis but even though we have had one of the biggest crises ever in europe, you can take pride in actually having promoted free trade and advanced free trade both in europe and the rest of the world. therefore, when you leave office – in this capacity at least – you should remember the legacy you have left in promoting free trade, because i for one will also do so.
in writing. - i abstained on the report by the committee on legal affairs (juri) on the request to waive the immunity of mr borghezio, because in principle i believe that it should always be up to the competent authorities of the member states to decide whether any criminal acts have been committed under their national law. the juri report contains subjective inferences about mr borghezioʼs statements, which may be seen as pre-empting the competent national judicial authorities of italy in their appraisal of the case.
in writing. - i've put my vote down. andersdóttir's report is a good one and has many positive aspects. but since i am not convinced that the sst programme has only civilian applications, and since there is no detailed budget for the financing of the whole programme, i choose to abstain.
in writing. the climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time. greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced while avoiding an increase in the costs of european industry. to do that, we need nuclear power. but more wind and other renewable energy sources will not be enough to cope with both climate and jobs. if nuclear power is phased out, europe may be forced to use dirty coal power from germany or gas from russia. energy policy is also security policy today. it is therefore not reasonable to propose strong limits on nuclear power, and i therefore chose to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. - what? "we swedish social democrats believe it is very important to strengthen the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. a key part of that work is the european commission's proposal to close the loopholes in the parent/subsidiary directive that open up certain forms of aggressive tax planning. we are generally in favour of the proposal. that is why we voted in favour of the report which has now been put to the vote. at the same time, we note that there is a subsidiarity problem linked to the part of the proposal which is to establish a general anti-abuse provision in the directive. there are reasonable grounds for considering that such provisions are a matter for national jurisdiction. this aspect must be included in the continuing process.'
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the stockholm programme. i have been committed to the implementation of the stockholm programme, since its adoption during the swedish presidency. we took an historic step forward with the adoption of the asylum package to improve the conditions for those who come to europe while ensuring legal certainty and responsibility sharing. we improved the conditions for unaccompanied minors. we made border control more effective with a new system of borders surveillance, eurosur, which will help us to prevent tragedies like lampedusa, rescue people at sea and better manage external borders. we increased protection of women, with the european protection order and the directive on protection of victims; we adopted concrete tools to fight cross-border crime, with the european investigation order, the directive against human trafficking and the directive against child pornography. these are just a few examples of what we have accomplished in order to strike a real balance between providing security to citizens while respecting their rights and integrity. now it is time for member states to implement these tools to ensure that this vision of an open and secure europe, a europe of rights, for citizens, with citizens, becomes a reality.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. it is important to have european cooperation against trafficking and international crime. but in the stockholm programme there are major conflicts of objectives between effective law enforcement on the one hand and personal privacy, and the consequences of tighter border controls, on the other. i do not think that the report is sufficiently clear on the problematic issues.
in writing. - for us social democrats, it is a matter of course that the aviation sector should contribute to the joint work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is in line with eu decisions already taken and is based on the principle that those who cause environmental damage should share in the payment of the socioeconomic costs incurred. it is important for us to be able to reach a global system to reduce aviation emissions. that is why we supported the 'stop the clock' initiative, where other international actors promised to help find a solution. that's not what happened. we therefore believe that the eu should continue its own climate action on aviation, especially when it takes place in eu airspace. we think it is desirable that the revenue from the ets be allocated to climate action, but at the same time we defend the principle that member states should decide on the distribution of the revenue themselves.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats chose to abstain in the final vote on the two parts of the audit package. on the one hand, we welcome the fact that stronger legislation is in place. the problems in the industry are obvious and need to be fixed. there were relevant subsidiarity objections to the original proposal of the european commission, but these objections have been relatively largely addressed in the negotiation process. on the other hand, we believe that the current trialogue agreement has landed on the wrong side of the spectrum in key areas. rotation times of up to 20/24 years are not reasonable. nor is it the provision that the income from ancillary services may represent as much as 70% of the income from the audit activity itself. with this balanced picture, it made sense for us to abstain.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european parliament clearly took a position in favour of the trialogue agreement with the member states and the commission on the legislative package on auditing. but even though i voted for the compromise, i remain very sceptical about the rules on compulsory rotation of seats. this risked not leading to the increased competition that the commission wanted to achieve but rather strengthening the position of the four major players on the audit market. the office rotation also risks leading to an increase in costs of at least eur 10 billion for the eu as a whole. i have also said in the debates in the european parliament that there are not sufficient grounds for a regulation and that the rules should be adopted by means of a directive instead. a directive takes account of the way in which national audit markets operate and leaves room for national interpretation of the rules. unfortunately, the agreement became eu regulation in the form of both a directive and a regulation.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european parliament clearly took a position in favour of the trialogue agreement with the member states and the commission on the legislative package on auditing. but even though i voted for the compromise, i remain very sceptical about the rules on compulsory rotation of seats. this risked not leading to the increased competition that the commission wanted to achieve but rather strengthening the position of the four major players on the audit market. the office rotation also risks leading to an increase in costs of at least eur 10 billion for the eu as a whole. i have also said in the debates in the european parliament that there are not sufficient grounds for a regulation and that the rules should be adopted by means of a directive instead. a directive takes account of the way in which national audit markets operate and leaves room for national interpretation of the rules. unfortunately, the agreement became eu regulation in the form of both a directive and a regulation.
in writing. - the annual report of the european court of auditors showed an increase in the overall error rate in the implementation of the eu budget for the third year in a row. this is very troubling. the european commission is ultimately responsible for the use of eu money. however, the court's criticism is not directed primarily at the commission but at the member states. the main areas of failure are those eu policies which are subject to 'shared management' between the eu and the member states (i.e. areas of co-financing, especially the structural funds) and the member states' own management systems. the main spending areas of the eu budget - regional and agricultural policies - account for the largest share of the overall increase in errors. therefore, although the european commission bears the ultimate responsibility, we do not consider that there is any reason to deny the commission a full discharge for 2012. we therefore decided to abstain on this part of the report and would like to encourage the commission to initiate a discussion in the council between the member states in order to come up with measures to reduce the error rate. finally, we would also point out that the error rate estimated by the eu's auditors is usually not about waste or irregularities. in particular, these are pure errors on the part of the beneficiaries, such as incorrectly filled forms. in all cases where it is found that eu funds have been wrongly paid, the commission shall request that they be reimbursed.
- we would point out, however, that we do not support the wording of own resources in paragraph 12, as we do not consider it regrettable that own resources are no longer the main source of revenue for the eu budget, even though the protection of the eu's financial interests is very important precisely to ensure that citizens' money is used properly. however, this paragraph was not put to a separate vote.
in writing. - the fight against fraud is particularly important today, as the economic crisis is still being felt. according to commission estimates, some eur 600 million is lost each year through fraud and negligence. the eu's money must be used as efficiently as possible and then these enormous sums cannot disappear. we wholeheartedly support the fight against fraud with eu resources. the report also contains a general paragraph on the eu's own resources. the eu's own resources are important, but we do not want to see them extended to financial transaction taxes or other taxes. the fight against fraud is of the utmost importance, and we therefore voted in favour of the whole of the own-initiative report, even though we do not support the idea of extending the eu's own resources.
the rapporteur. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. a proposal was put forward called the animal health act, which would be based on the principle that prevention is better than cure. of course, this gave a tremendous boost to all those in europe who work with animals and animal welfare. you know very well that the welfare of animals is the detail on which most citizens write to the european parliament. this was a tremendous complexity when i started this work as rapporteur. this is not an animal health act, this is a disease control act. it is very important to distinguish between these. it means that so many people - and i fully understand why they have reacted this way - have thought that there is finally a proposal that will allow us to start creating better living conditions for our animals, whatever animals we are talking about. thank god i've had some amazing shadow speakers. we've done a good job together. i've been fortunate that they've been objective, knowledgeable and realistic. there has also been good cooperation with commission officials, efsa and veterinary and farmer organisations in europe. the really serious problem and challenge now that we realize that this is a disease control law is that we, unfortunately, have to be able to pick out all the animal care and animal welfare requirements that have been in this job. the great challenge for the european parliament is to take a decision which makes free trade in the internal market and the development of the european internal market in all its aspects a central point for getting the economy and employment going everywhere. but free trade in live animals or animal products must not mean free trade in serious diseases, even less serious diseases. i think that in our compromise we in the european parliament have found an excellent and lasting solution to the problem. the aim is that areas, member states or regions free of certain communicable diseases should be entitled to impose import restrictions if they are scientifically justified. they are obliged to inform the commission, and the commission can check that they are scientifically based. this is important, because a free market in this respect requires a well-functioning law on the control of infection.
the submission of an opinion by the committee on fisheries. - mr. speaker, i have to go. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries on the new animal health law, i have taken as my starting point two important principles: firstly, prevention is better than cure and secondly, we must say no to free trade in animal diseases within the eu. we're not taking any unnecessary risks. areas and countries which are currently free of disease must have the right to protect themselves. trade in meat is one thing, but trade in live animals, whether fish or quadrupeds, is quite another, as it increases the risk of infection. every year, at least 25 000 people in the eu die from infections caused by antibiotic-resistant bacteria, almost as many as die in european traffic. we must take this very, very seriously. there are several eu directives on animal husbandry which are unfortunately not being complied with today. this means that the countries that follow the rules are discriminated against in the single market, where the rules are supposed to be the same for everyone. however, they are not, and that is why many swedish pig farmers are bankrupt today. i call on the commission to ensure that eu laws are respected. in doing so, we are actually preventing the spread of infection that this law is designed to prevent.
mr president, i would like to thank you. many of us have been working for a long time to introduce in the eu a maximum limit of eight hours for transporting animals for slaughter. it is really about animal health, and our patience is running out when it comes to waiting for proposals from the european commission. that is why i shall vote tomorrow for a maximum limit of eight hours for the transport of animals for slaughter. the focus should be on animal welfare requirements in general, and how they can be improved and better enforced within the eu. this is how we can prevent the diseases we see in animals and also how we can have a more level playing field within the eu. as far as public controls in the food chain are concerned, it is of course of the utmost importance that we have a strong regulatory framework in this area to protect human health - indeed, human life, if need be. it is good that attention is being paid to the problem of antibiotic resistance and that public controls in the future should be aimed at reducing antibiotic resistance. antibiotics have probably saved my life, and they have definitely reduced the suffering of my children. i hope that we can save more lives and reduce more suffering in the future with antibiotics, but that requires more action. i really hope that the next european commission will take action and put forward more concrete proposals on how we prevent antibiotic resistance in the eu.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you for all the comments. as i said at the beginning, the term 'animal health law' clearly links animal welfare to matters outside this legislation. commissioner, if i am re-elected, i promise to fight to make this law extremely clear, because millions and millions of people in europe will follow it in their daily work. clearly, then, one of our most important duties is to make laws that are clear and understandable. as regards rapid action, there is nothing in the european parliament's proposal - which will be voted on tomorrow - that in any way prevents the commission from taking rapid and effective action for both known and as yet unknown diseases. what i would like to defend most strongly is the fight against antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria. the countries and regions free of a disease must have the right to protect their freedom on a scientific, fact-based basis. a free market requires effective controls.
madam president, i would like to thank you. of course, we should have a mandatory register for lobbyists. but that is not enough, we must also support the green group's proposal to make it compulsory to ensure that the information lobbyists send to parliament is also made public. it is important that everyone knows where proposals come from in order to determine their impact. i really hope that the house will support this motion. that burden should not be on members of parliament, but the board should ensure that it is the responsibility of the lobbyists. it is regrettable that i have not been able to get support for my proposals on criminal law or at least fines and fees for those lobbyists who break the rules. just replacing one lobbyist with another is not a sufficient consequence to ensure that they comply with the regulations. we need to tighten up the lobbying rules. otherwise, it threatens the future development of the eu. lobbying today tends to preserve old power structures and old economic models.
rapporteur. - madam president, today we are to decide upon the basis for the european banking sector and banking union, with the banking recovery resolution directive being the cornerstone of that. on 11[nbsp ]december last year, we managed to reach a political agreement on what is essentially a fundamentally new way of legislation. until now, there have been no common rules on how to handle the failure of a bank either at european level or, in many cases, at national level. this new legislation stipulates what has to happen when a bank needs to be resolved – that is, wound down in an orderly fashion with the minimum impact on taxpayers and financial stability. it establishes the berlin principle, which means that banks’ shareholders and creditors will be the first to face the losses from a bank failure. it also lays down the framework for how the authorities of home and host member states are to deal with one another, clarifying the responsibilities of the different authorities. but it also states that, although berlin will be the main way to solve problems, there are also situations of systemic crisis when you need public intervention. in the future, no one should presume that taxpayers will help any bank, but we shall not preclude the need for public intervention in order to safeguard financial stability. i am happy that we have achieved the right balance for this year. the brrd, the banking resolution recovery directive, also lays the foundation of banking union and the forthcoming single resolution mechanism. in this regard, the point of departure will be that rules are set for all 28 member states and we will have the same rules in all of the union. i think that this is fundamentally important, because it means that when there are discussions in the eurozone about banking union, we will not have the risk of a fragmented union for banks, because we have the same platform, with the recovery resolution directive as its cornerstone. i think this is an essential thing to think about in the future, because the strength of the european economy and european financial markets is their ability to act in a unified way and mobilise all the resources we have in our different markets, making them into one financial market. looking at the wider horizon, we are now facing the votes we will be casting later today on this and other dossiers, which mark not only the end of this mandate but also an era of regulation of financial markets probably never seen before. i think it is worthwhile to use the coming years for a time of reflection: how far did we go, how successful were we and what will be the results when we implement all this legislation? i think it is important to see how the european financial markets work after implementation of these enormous, ambitious regulations. i think it is fair to say that we are now laying the ground for a stable banking sector, but also with opportunities for dynamic decisions, because we are underlining the need for responsibilities in the management of each bank. when banks and bank owners can no longer trust and rely on the feeling that someone else will save them, the need for increased responsibility will be realised and we will see that, in that sense, we will have regained the principles of market economy in the banking sector. we have done a lot: we have higher capital levels, harmonised rules for deposit guarantee schemes, and we will have new rules for markets and financial instruments, otc derivatives, etc., and i think when we take an overall view of all this, we will see that we have achieved a lot and now it is time to see how it works. i think we could also take a look at some of the other things that we will need. we will need a dynamic financial market and i think the litmus test will be whether we can get the european economy to grow. i am proud of the result of our work. i would like to express my gratitude to my colleagues for their very professional cooperation and good spirits during this procedure. thank you, elisa, wolf, philippe, vicky and all of your staff; thank you to the secretariat of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for invaluable effort and expertise and thank you, commissioner barnier, for all the work you and your staff have done. we have prepared the ground for a more stable and more dynamic european banking sector. now let us wait for growth and new jobs to come.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the banking union is perhaps the most important vote of the entire election cycle. we now have a single, strong european supervisory authority in the form of the ecb, a single stability fund to avoid taxpayers being affected and a deposit guarantee scheme. monetary union has been questioned by economists and opinion makers since its inception. those who did not believe that the euro would become a reality were wrong. those who thought the euro would collapse were wrong. those who thought two years ago that greece would be forced to leave the monetary union were also wrong. perhaps it is time for reflection for those who did not understand the decisiveness that the union can provide in times of unrest. europe is emerging from the worst crisis since the 1920s and 1930s. mr. deputy prime minister, greece has returned to the international bond market. my congratulations! ireland and portugal are also recovering. the eu has shown its strength in difficult times. the banking union creates stability and security, but reforms must now continue. madam president, i regret that sweden is outside the banking union. it is not good for the big swedish banks and their customers, and it weakens sweden's influence in the european union. this is one of my last speeches. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the president, the commissioner and the deputy prime minister. i think you have done a good job, and we can hope that my country will also join the monetary union eventually.
member of the commission. - madam president, it's a very long way we've come together, at twenty-eight i say this in relation to the remarks on the city of london. this path of 28 is not a matter of chance. it was a voluntary work on my part, on yours, and on the part of the governments, to work together for the unity of the internal market, including this very large financial centre, the city. it's the main one and it's a chance for all of us. this long journey began, ladies and gentlemen, with structural reforms and i say this in response to the regret that we have arrived too late at the banking union. i would remind you that my priority was the creation of the three european supervisory authorities following on from the larosière report: the eba, the eiopa and the esma. the rapporteur was sylvie goulard, the rapporteur was sven giegold, the rapporteur was peter skinner and the rapporteur was your former colleague, mr garcía-margallo. all those who want to join the banking union are welcome, including sweden and the other countries, because it is clear that the stability of the eurozone or its instability, as we have seen for five years is the stability or instability of the entire european union. this banking union is therefore a fundamental element. elisa ferreira, marianne thyssen and sven giegold have worked a lot on this. but i want to, as corien wortmann-kool said, welcome the special role, alongside the greek presidency, of the president of the eurogroup, jeroen dijsselbloem, and - if you will allow me - also underline the major role of the european central bank in all this negotiation, with president draghi and vice-president vitor constâncio. structure, again, with the common rule, to avoid citizens or taxpayers paying for the banks; with the rules of the ebrd, as gunnar hökmark has just mentioned; with prudential rules, structural, for all the "insurance" players with the solvency regime. burkhard balz talked about it earlier and then othmar karas, who played a major role in the prudential rules for the 8 300 banks in the european union. these are structural reforms to reduce risk, ensure good supervision and accountability. the first key to accountability is transparency: we know who is doing what. and we've shed light on a number of people who don't like the light very much. we'll have to keep going. mairead mcguinness, i'd like to use the words "morality" and "ethics" again. it is not unusual to speak of these words and to put behind them acts, laws, which are in the public interest. since i am talking about citizens, ethics, morality and also risks, i would like to reply to othmar karas on the specific point he raised, namely the technical standards on remuneration in the context of the crd. i welcome your agreement a few weeks ago on the technical standards for remuneration to define clearly what are called risk takers, to whom the crd rules on remuneration will apply. following my discussions in the econ committee, mr karas, i am well aware [nbsp] and i support the parliament's concern[nbsp] that the authorities must be informed ex ante of the application of these rules. this is precisely the way we interpret technical standards. i will confirm this interpretation, mr. karas, by a formal letter. this is a situation where the citizens were waiting for answers and where you, as members of parliament, have given answers on the basis of work with the commission and the council, so that the financial world does not think that everything is permitted, that everything is not allowed, as has been the case for twenty-five or thirty years. this world of finance, as mr gauss said, must return to the service of the real economy rather than to its own service. we have worked a lot and since i am talking about the citizens and taxpayers whom we wanted to protect, i would also like to mention some of the texts we have adopted over the last four years, which are precisely citizens' texts: the deposit guarantee is a citizen's text, mr simon; the prips, mrs beres; the basic bank account, mr jürgen klute, and i also welcome the presence of my colleague neven mimica, who followed this text very closely; the antolín sánchez presedo mortgage credit; the guarantee and compensation of investors with olle schmidt; the framework for payment services and interchange fees, with pablo zalba and diogo feio. all these citizen texts concern the daily lives of individuals and families who, by the thousands, have suffered from the lack of transparency, sometimes manipulation and lack of accountability. we protected the citizens. madam president, it is also worth taking a minute or two to recall the work done by all the actors and sectors, from the text on alternative funds and private equity reported by jean-paul gauzès to mr el khadraoui's shadow banking and market funds and the text on derivatives. werner langen has spoken, and i thank him for his appreciation. he has done a lot of work on this sector, which represents, in the world of exchanges, some 600,000 billion euros, of which 80% is over-the-counter, not transparent. we have shed light and we will have to go further and continue: short selling, with philippe lamberts; financial markets [nbsp]markus ferber, just now mentioned this central text ; market abuse; control of manipulations [nbsp]some bankers will go to prison now for the most serious manipulations , this is the work of arlene mccarthy; the rating agencies with mr. domenici; the ucits with mr. sven giegold; the audit with mr. sajjad karim; the securities with ms. swinburne; the simplifications of accounting with mr. lehne, whom we welcome beyond this house; the financial conglomerates with mr. stolojan. i will mention two other texts which are important to me in the context of the internal market because they are also texts which facilitate growth: the passport on venture capital, which mr lamberts and mrs hübner were responsible for, and the european social entrepreneurship fund, which is a sector which is currently creating jobs on the ground, for which mrs sophie auconie was rapporteur. i wanted to mention all these rapporteurs because they, their collaborators, the commission services, the interpreters - i salute them - and the legal service have done a considerable amount of work, to which we have also contributed. this is not over, ladies and gentlemen. many of you, i hope, will come back here to this house to continue the work on longterm finance, for which mrs rodi [nbsp ]kratsa is rapporteur, on benchmarks, which chair sharon bowles has dealt with, on non-financial reporting, with mr baldassarre. as regards the structural reform of the banks, ladies and gentlemen, i know that the text has come late. i wanted, logically, to do all the rest, that is to say all the horizontal cross-cutting texts that concern the 8 300 banks: resolution, deposit guarantee, supervision, capitalisation, robustness. and it was after i had drawn up all these texts and after they had been adopted, after they had been specified in detail, that i asked myself the question: is this enough? and i said, "yes, it is enough, if these texts are adopted by almost all banks and if they are properly observed under the authority of the supervisors". my answer is 'no' to the 30 largest european banks, whose balance sheets are often larger than the gdp of the country in which they are located. and if one of them has a problem, it is not just the question of the country in which its head office is located, it is a systemic problem for the whole european union. that is why i have proposed this last structural reform, which your assembly will have to adopt after its renewal. as many of you will be returning to parliament, if the citizens want it, you will have to carry this reform to heart. in any case, wherever i am, i will follow it very closely because i believe it is very important to separate the weighting and risk management and perhaps also to prohibit the most speculative activities, what is called property trading, which has no justification from the point of view of the general interest and the economy for the largest banks. ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that these texts are properly applied, we must evaluate them, supplement them and correct them if necessary. we also need to ensure a level playing field with all our partners. i would remind you that it is the european union which is behind the g20 and the whole agenda of global regulations to learn from the crisis and to prevent it from happening again. we have done our job and we need to check with our partners, the americans in particular, but also the other g20 partners, that everyone is doing their job. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this is the work i did! some bankers think it's a lot. i think what has done a lot is the lack of regulation. that's the self-regulation i don't believe in. it was deregulation, which europe has sometimes supported for 30 years, that caused this financial crisis. fair rules, good supervision and public regulation were needed. we have done it together and i would point out, madam president, that all the political groups in this house have participated in one way or another in it through the rapporteurs i have mentioned. this is not the time for complacency, there are too many european citizens who are suffering, who have efforts to make, who have been asked to make a lot of effort. let us think of them on the basis of what i have indicated, of stabilized financial markets and better rules. we must now focus all our efforts on recovery, growth and competitiveness.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i happened to be the finance minister in greece at the most difficult moment of the financial crisis, when the financial crisis turned into a banking crisis, because of the need to drastically reduce greek public debt, i can, thanks to my experience and experience, assure you that what is happening today, this decision you are going to take on the banking union and the single resolution mechanism, is a very important act and, i dare say, a historic act, because we will break the tie that exists and allow the possible fiscal crisis to turn into a financial and financial crisis and vice versa. this is a vicious cycle we must not repeat. the attempt to fill the fundamental and inherent gaps of economic and monetary union is difficult. the completion of economic and monetary union requires a great deal of work. i agree with the honourable members who have stressed earlier that it is not enough to have a single supervisory mechanism and it is not enough to have a single resolution mechanism, with all the problems and imperfections it has, but we also need a truly single guarantee protection mechanism at pan-european level which goes beyond the objectives of the directive, which are the objectives of harmonising national guarantee systems. to a large extent, what is happening is an attempt to overcome very significant internal disparities between member states and structural disparities in the single market in the financial sector. the most important inequality in the european banking market, in my view, is the inequality of interest rates, because it reproduces profound developmental disparities between member states. when a greek small or medium-sized enterprise borrows money from banks at an interest rate 6 or 7 per cent higher than the interest rate at which a german enterprise borrows, then an internal development and social inequality is reproduced. this is due in large part to the fact that there is no banking union. a very significant inequality that we continue to face in greece and other countries is the withdrawal of deposits to be transferred to another country, not because there is a better interest rate - the interest rate may be lower - but because there is a deeper sense of security; something that is very, very important. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial system is not undermined by the financial crisis. but now, a few days before the european elections, a very important question arises, now that we must all formulate our comprehensive proposal for the future of european integration as we address citizens and especially young european citizens who are unemployed. the question is why they should be interested in what is happening in the banking union and why it is important for them to have a single supervisory mechanism and a single deposit-reconciliation mechanism. we must explain to the citizens that these are preconditions for supporting the european real economy in a more healthy and competitive way and for supporting european businesses on equal terms, in a healthy way, at rates which are really competitive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conclusion is therefore that the banking union is not only about banks, bankers, hybrid products, shareholders, financial games, that is, it is not only limited to the financial sphere but it is ultimately and above all about the real economy, where europe is suffering and where the agony of every european citizen is expressed, especially those who are unemployed or, marginally, living in poverty. it is therefore very important that we talk about all that needs to be done. i agree with commissioner barnier, whom i also honour and commend for his work, his persistence, his firm orientation when he says that we must take further steps. i would like to point out that the complete separation of investment and commercial banks is a very important step and an element of transparency. it is of the utmost importance that we tell the truth about our objectives in the banking union. obviously we want to check the quality of the portfolios of banks, both investment and commercial. we obviously want to check the criteria and the quality of the loans from the banks. these checks, through the single supervisory mechanism, ultimately help growth, help healthy competitiveness, help investment and help, finally, to tackle the great problem of unemployment. there is a thought that behind all this is the fact that the financial sphere is completely separated from the real economy and is self-sustaining, that it easily makes money through financial games and that this is a story without end, that we can thus move into the future, without any risk, accumulating surpluses. this is getting us nowhere. turns out it leads nowhere. i should also say that the quality control of the portfolios of the 130 european systemic banks ultimately leads to an indirect assessment of government bonds and therefore brings us face to face with the issue of european public debt, because of course the management of european public debt, the public debt of the member states, cannot be done by the states or the european central bank or the european stability mechanism alone. we need the european banking system, but we need that european banking system which ensures, through participation in the market for government bonds in europe, the acquisition and maintenance of a healthy portfolio which, in turn, will help the real economies of the member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is therefore very important that we address the european citizens by talking to them about things that concern them, explaining to them that what we are doing is not abstract concepts and does not concern a closed world of financial transactions but concerns the real europe, the european societies, the peoples and citizens. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. - madam speaker, please. i would like to thank commissioner michel barnier and his colleagues, minister evangelos venizelos, the greek presidency and also the former lithuanian presidency, which made it possible to conclude the political agreement between parliament and the council. we are now at the end of a period of intensive regulation, in which we are laying the foundations for european banks and for future european banking regulation. we have laid the foundations for clear rules on public finances in the past. if there is no balance in public finances, there is no stability in the economy. these two things are clearly linked. what we are doing now is we are entering a new period where this has to be done, where we have to ensure that what we have done in terms of stability also contributes to the growth, jobs and investment that is needed. what we're doing now is laying the foundation for banks that can be more stable. through the berlin process we have, we are not only forcing forward the stability of each individual bank but also the stability of the system when the crisis comes. we are giving banks an opportunity to be more european by solving the problems that have existed between host and home countries but also ensuring that we have common legislation in all 28 member states. in addition, we are making the banks more credible, which will facilitate their ability to finance the investment and growth that europe needs. it will be clear that no one can trust the government or the taxpayers to solve the problems of the banks. bank owners and lenders now know that they are taking the same risks as in any other business. we ensure that the common public ultimately always ensures the stability of the system. now there's a chance to move on. i would like to thank everyone who has been involved in this debate here today, because there is broad support for implementing these fundamental measures. the time has come to ensure that they are implemented in such a way that we can create the jobs, growth and investment that europe needs. we have laid that foundation, and i am proud to have been a part of it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. consumer products must be safe and of high quality. but quality is determined by testing, not by the country of manufacture. i am against origin labelling and was also a shadow rapporteur on the customs code, the union customs code, but i had to give in and accept a compromise as heide rühle mentioned earlier. however, protectionist labelling - that is what we are talking about here - should not be included in this regulation. the eu rules on origin labelling are complex and will increase the cost of handling consumer products. a cost which will ultimately be borne by eu consumers. europe's businesses, especially small businesses, do not need more bureaucracy and increased costs. on the contrary, you need less bureaucracy and less costs. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – i can agree with a lot of the problems you mention here, but it has nothing to do with what i am proposing. of course we differ, as i am a free trader: i think free trade is very good. i know that this labelling is used to protect european goods and european industry in a false manner. if you want to get rid of all these problems you mention, this is not the right way. it will increase costs and will be less competitive for the european market and for the smes that you believe that you are protecting. free trade is actually helping europe, not protectionism.
in writing. - it is important for the stability of europe's banking sector that a common banking union and a common crisis fund can be established, and we believe that sweden should be part of this union in the long term. we therefore voted in favour of the tripartite agreement on banking union. we want to emphasise that we are against using the eu budget or national budgets to rescue banks in crisis. swedish or other national taxpayers will not be responsible for losses in foreign banks if we join the banking union. each eu country has a responsibility to manage its own public finances, as does the banks' crisis fund, which is to be financed by the banks themselves. rather than draining sovereign finances or increasing speculation, a crisis fund of banks' own money should encourage long-term thinking and enable a more stable financial market. for these reasons we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the financial instability created by the economic crisis was partly due to the different deposit guarantee systems in the member states. this created uncertainty and a shifting environment for financial operators. many countries also finance their deposit guarantee schemes directly from their budget without buffered funds. this must end in order to ensure the liquidity of the banking sector and to increase consumer and investor confidence. i support this tripartite agreement, which harmonises national rules on deposit guarantee within the eu and creates greater security for financial operators. the requirements for better information and faster payouts to depositors improve market confidence. since the agreement also preserves the deposit guarantee of eur 100000 per person, all bank customers receive an equivalent guarantee from all european banks.
in writing. - during the financial crisis, it became clear that many banks and credit institutions lacked effective tools to deal with crisis situations. to remedy this and avoid similar crises, banks need to be able to finance their own crisis management. public funds shall not be used in state rescue operations. i believe that all banks should have recovery and restructuring plans in place, so-called living wills for how to proceed in the event of an orderly bankruptcy. these ensure that banks are not caught by surprise by any crisis. this will increase the capacity of banks to act in times of turmoil and avoid a deeper crisis. a more robust banking sector benefits everyone, and that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. during the financial crisis, individuals like bernard madoff showed that the existing rules for financial institutions were inadequate. his and others' pyramid-style investment fund fraud damaged confidence in these products and therefore the regulation of this market needs to be tightened. clear and concise financial market regulation benefits all market participants and can prevent future fraud. i therefore support this proposal for clearer rules for depositary institutions and their stock and interest-bearing funds. i also welcome the tightening of supervision of depositaries by the tripartite agreement. it is important that financial market reforms are now being implemented and that infringements of these reforms are punished. the proposed tripartite agreement contains more detailed rules on sanctions and increased protection for whistleblowers. this will effectively prevent and detect overruns, while increasing market transparency. i voted for the motion for these reasons.
in writing. - today, some 58 million europeans do not have a regular bank account. not having a bank account today is like being an outsider. you can't get your salary, pension or other benefits into an account, a system that's also exploited by the black economy. this is not only discriminatory but also a real obstacle to free movement within the eu. banks may not refuse to open a bank account for a consumer on the grounds that he has a foreign social security number. all that is required is that you can prove your identity, which is a reasonable requirement to prevent money laundering. i have long called for affordable financial services for those who are not attractive bank customers, and i am pleased today to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - following the financial crisis in europe, it is important to improve transparency, clarity and knowledge in financial markets. if consumers are well informed, the market functions better, while maintaining confidence in the financial market. i therefore welcome this tripartite agreement on the introduction of the fund fact sheet for packaged investment products. common rules for those investment products improve comparability and comprehensibility for the investor while creating a level playing field in the internal market. the tripartite agreement covers a wide range of financial products and therefore ensures that the investor can be sure of what an investment entails. an effective system of penalties ensures that dealers who provide incorrect or misleading information are punished, thereby preventing future infringements. for these reasons, i support this agreement.
in writing. - it would be great if more citizens could have access to high-speed broadband. it is a development that is necessary. but it is hardly something that can be managed from within the eu, and the details of how this should be designed have to be decided at national and local level. i therefore chose to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. - i voted against the agreement on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries, because i do not think it is reasonable to spend eur 883 million on this. these are resources that could be better used elsewhere.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the common agricultural policy, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the common organization of the market in cereals, the common organization of the market in milk and milk products, the common organization of the market in milk and milk products, and the common organization of the market in milk and milk products.
in writing. - i supported the directive to facilitate the admission of highly skilled professionals from third countries coming to europe as intra-corporate transferees (icts). geographical boundaries should not hinder business growth in a knowledge-based economy. with common and clear rules it will be easier for international companies to transfer employees temporarily to the eu and european companies will get faster and easier access to skilled workers from around the world. this is particularly important for sweden, where innovation and creativity are so important to attracting investments and creating jobs. i am particularly happy that we introduced the possibility for intra-corporate transferees to move and work for the same company in another member state without initiating a new procedure. we have also introduced safeguards to ensure that working conditions and equal treatment are respected. this directive will contribute to sweden’s competitiveness and economic growth and i will continue to be committed in the next mandate to ensuring that all member states will implement the new rules.
in writing. - we agree with the writings that the eu budget must be spent on the right things and provide european added value. we also agree with the criticism that in several cases the council did not respect the right of co-decision of the parliament and instead negotiated internally on issues that should have been negotiated jointly with the european parliament, such as several aspects of eu cohesion policy. however, the report also proposes, in our view, too far-reaching changes in the way the eu budget is financed and adopted. we do not believe that more 'real' own resources should be introduced and we would like to stress the importance of sweden's continued veto in the negotiations on a new long-term budget.
madam president, i would like to thank you. freedom of movement shall not be restricted. it is a great asset and one of the best things the eu has done. it is certainly a good thing when people can move between member states to do work that is needed in one country after another. it is a win-win for the individual who gains increased job opportunities and for the countries that benefit from the skills of the seconded person. now we hear voices raised to tear up the directive. it would be a failure indeed, because we are part of our surroundings and part of the european context. we cannot isolate ourselves in a globalized world. to set criteria and requirements which would make it difficult for the dynamic labour market to function is pure and simple protectionism. i am surprised that these demands come from both social democrats and leftists. instead, it is our national systems that should be updated in line with a dynamic world. today, about one million eu citizens are posted to work in another member state. the directive sets out core rights such as minimum wages, holidays, health, working hours, etc. there are problems, of course, with pay and holidays, for example. that is why we should adopt the directive now and improve its implementation and protect workers. where there are decentralised collective agreements, we must also ensure that we can improve information, for example in sweden. we welcome that. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the answer ('blue card'). of course, no eu citizen should be exploited or treated unfavourably. to you, jean-luc mélenchon, i would like to say that i believe in freedom, equality, fraternity and, for that matter, sisterhood. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the selfemployed. i want to see you stand up and defend the rights of women to move freely between our member countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today's debate on the implementing directive is the last in a long process, but it is far from the last debate on posting. the requirement for cross-border cooperation and exchange of information between authorities, control mechanisms, clear definitions of posting and possibilities to introduce main contractor responsibility are several examples of measures which i consider necessary to improve the situation of posted workers. i will therefore support the agreement with the council, as it solves many practical problems. i am convinced that this is a step in the right direction on this issue. the posting directive was founded in this parish. we also know that it was reinterpreted to be a ceiling rather than what was required. new rules of implementation are not enough.
mr president, i would like to thank you. free movement is perhaps one of the most important aspects of eu cooperation. freedom of movement to where the jobs are is a matter of course in an open and borderless europe. only 0.1% move between eu countries to look for work. within the united states, the same figure is 3 percent. in my home country, sweden, there are about 6,000 people who are posted out of the 5 million who work. we need even more crossborder mobility, not less. eu rules on posting must not restrict labour market mobility. as has already been said here, we in the alde group stand behind the tripartite compromise. common eu rules are needed to guarantee the social rights of posted workers, such as minimum wages, holidays and protection against discrimination. we call it the hard core. the left, on the other hand -- we hear it here -- wants to go further, which would limit mobility substantially. this, in my view, suggests protectionism and nationalism, and i do not think we need that in europe these days. we must of course - and i agree with olle ludvigsson - do more to tackle fraud and abuse of the rules and do more preventive work. but to scrap the posting directive, as the left is demanding, would be to go backwards and limit mobility to the detriment of workers, wage earners and europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. for weeks my son had the habit of picking up trash from the ditch when we went to school. it's just that every day we walked in, there was new junk. it wasn't kids throwing it, because it was junk boxes, it was big bags of chips and it was system company boxes, but it was grown-up people doing it. i think it's terrible that people can't take responsibility for taking care of their own garbage, but they obviously can't. that is why it is really necessary for us to take a common political responsibility here in the eu and do something about the fact that our seas are now full of garbage, not only of visible plastic bags but also of this invisible plastic, that is to say plastic bags and other things that have already been broken down into very small pieces and that completely fill our oceans, that are eaten by animals and that end up on our plates. no, it simply requires that we do something about it. so it makes perfect sense to set reduction targets and of course to charge for plastic bags in the store. however, i cannot wholeheartedly support this proposal, because i see a risk in how it will work in my own country. there, we have a tradition of paying for a plastic bag in the grocery store that we use to throw out trash. it's thinner than what this proposal counts as reusable. the risk is therefore that it will be made thicker in the future in order to escape the reduction requirement. i hope that in the coming negotiations, the best will be done to clarify this, so that the legislation we finally get also produces a good result for the environment throughout the eu, including in my own country.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. almost every day we hear of another boat sinking in the mediterranean and more migrants drowning. of course, this culminated in the tragic accident off lampedusa a few months ago. the bitter truth is that the mediterranean, mare nostrum, is turning into a sea of death. the biggest problem, of course, is that there are no legal safe routes for refugees to come to the eu today. instead, they are forced into the hands of smugglers, putting their lives on the line in life-threatening boats to seek refuge in the eu. now it's time we establish legal safe routes for them to come here. at the same time, we must become better at handling situations at sea. until now, there have been no clear rules. i therefore warmly welcome the report on frontex's maritime operations. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, from the bottom of my heart for his work. i would say that without his efforts this report would look very different. for the first time, we now have binding rules for search and rescue operations at sea. we are introducing mandatory measures to identify people and ensuring that those who need it receive special protection, both asylum seekers and vulnerable people. we are prohibiting pushbacks in international waters and are strengthening the text on solidarity and the principle of non-refoulement. i'm glad the work is far, far better than i dared hope when we started. i have complained at times, and i have been discouraged at times, but i am now calling on the member states to introduce similar rules for national operations. this is how we can make a difference and prevent the mediterranean from becoming a sea of death.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm a refugee from the war in bosnia. it motivated me to get involved in politics. i never thought, however, that my last speech in this plenary would be about occupation. that we are today, 100 years after the first world war, discussing russia's occupation of a european country is very disturbing. i thought europe had learned its history lesson from the balkan wars, but apparently not. every time we forget our history lesson, we're brutally awakened and forced to defend our values. what is happening in crimea and what is happening in eastern ukraine is not the result of russia's new attitude towards ukraine. it's about russia's new role in europe. crimea was only a test to assess europe's readiness to respond adequately. we have not shown sufficient determination and unity, and that was taken by putin as a clear sign that we could go on. unfortunately, i don't think it will end with ukraine. the only thing we have been able to achieve so far are resolutions and economic sanctions. if the situation in eastern ukraine continues to deteriorate, we will know that economic sanctions did not work. it is absolutely necessary to send signals to russia that we do not tolerate what is happening and that we will not tolerate similar steps in the future.
in writing. - we social democrats abstained on the points in the report concerning compulsory origin labelling. we believe that the added value and possible disadvantages of such labelling should be further investigated. we would like to stress, however, that we are in favour of clear labelling of all types of consumer products, as this is necessary to enable consumers to compare and assess the quality of different products.
in writing. - i think that many of the texts are good when it comes to protecting children, and i wholeheartedly support these proposals. unfortunately, the commission and parliament have chosen not to be content with amending the directive, but have unnecessarily chosen to convert the directive into a regulation. that is why i have decided to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. - consumer products must be safe and of high quality. there's no doubt about it. however, quality is determined by tests and does not depend on the country of manufacture. the rules on origin labelling are complex and will increase the cost of handling consumer products - a cost that will ultimately be borne by eu consumers. increased regulatory burden on companies and this kind of protectionism is exactly what a europe under economic pressure does not need. that's why we voted to remove that part of the bill. although we are against the introduction of mandatory rules on origin labelling, we ultimately voted in favour of the proposal because it is very important to have common rules on product safety.
in writing. i chose to abstain from voting on the fisheries agreement with the seychelles. this is a better deal than the last one from an environmental perspective. the price per tonne of tuna is increasing, and there is a cap on the amount of tuna that can be caught. at the same time, the main reason for the eu to have a fisheries agreement with the seychelles seems to be that we have overfished our own seas. we should help the country to be able to process its own fish in order to benefit its domestic fisheries industry.
in writing. i chose to abstain from voting on the comoros fisheries agreement. this is a better deal than the last one from an environmental perspective. the price per tonne of tuna is increasing, and there is a cap on the amount of tuna that can be caught. at the same time, the eu's main motivation for getting a fisheries agreement with the comoros seems to be that we have fished out our own seas. we should help the country to be able to process its own fish in order to benefit its domestic fisheries industry.
in writing. i voted against the fishing agreement with madagascar. this is a better deal than the last one from an environmental perspective. the price per tonne of tuna is increasing, and there is a cap on the amount of tuna that can be caught. in addition, there is a quota for by-catch of sharks, the only fisheries agreement that includes it. at the same time, there is great uncertainty in madagascar following the coup d'état in 2009. the eu has even used sanctions against the country, and i believe that the eu should not sign trade agreements with states that do not have a functioning government.
in writing. - 99 billion plastic bags were used in the eu in 2010, almost 200 plastic bags per eu inhabitant. billions of them end up as garbage in our nature and our oceans. it is important to address this waste of resources and environmental problem, partly by reducing the use of non-reusable plastic bags and partly by replacing plastic bags with environmentally friendly alternatives. at eu level we can establish a common framework, but it should be up to the individual member states to decide how to achieve the common objectives. it is also important to stress the important role of forestry resources in this context, and i would like to see this more clearly reflected in the final agreement with the council.
in writing. - 99 billion plastic bags were used in the eu in 2010, almost 200 plastic bags per eu inhabitant. billions of them end up as garbage in our nature and our oceans. it is important to address this waste of resources and environmental problem, partly by reducing the use of non-reusable plastic bags and partly by replacing plastic bags with environmentally friendly alternatives. it is important to stress the important role of forestry resources in this context and we want to see this more clearly reflected in the final agreement with the council.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats believe that the resources of the european parliament must be managed transparently and correctly. parliament's budget shall be administered in an orderly manner. all expenditure shall be accounted for and all operations shall be cost-effective. if an error has been made or if funds have not been used for the correct purposes, an investigation shall be initiated and funds wrongly paid shall be reimbursed. however, all such cases must first be investigated and all information must be available before any decision is taken in the case in question. we therefore decided to abstain from voting on the question of how the president of the european parliament may have used parliament's resources for his candidacy for president of the european commission, pending further information to be made available.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. the eu is leading a number of humanitarian operations in countries around the world: in syria, south sudan, the philippines, etc. however, among eu heads of state or government, one hand seems to be at a loss as to what the other is doing when it comes to these ambitions. the eu's commitments risk not being implemented unless they are backed up by adequate payment appropriations as soon as possible. instead, the commission is forced to delay, reduce or cancel certain operations. for eu humanitarian aid, this is alarming, as operations are often a matter of life and death. in order to meet the most urgent needs, the commission has proposed some reallocation within the budget, but this is not enough when the reallocation comes from budget lines which are likely to run the same deficit later this year. you fill a hole by digging another. despite the lack of money for promises already made, eu heads of state or government are making new promises, for example to ukraine. the eu budget commissioner also believes that no new appropriations are needed for this additional support to ukraine despite commissioner georgieva's call for more money to complete the activities already decided. i and my group of course support the ukraine package, but we want to stress that new commitments must be accompanied by new resources. otherwise, the support will be empty gestures. this is particularly true as one of the instruments the commission wants to use in ukraine, the instrument for peace and security, is already running a large deficit. this is where our question comes in: how can the eu promise new actions without increased funding? the risk is that the eu's promises will be seen as a trickle-down figure, that the aid is just loans plus a repackaging of old decisions presented as new money that would have benefited ukraine anyway. finally, the commission how can we cope with commissioner georgieva's urgent call for €400 million for humanitarian aid and the foreign affairs committee's call for €100 million in urgent need for other external operations if the commission does not dare to take the decision to actually ask for new money? the time is now, commissioner lewandowski.
in the light of the recent developments in the fisheries sector, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the fisheries sector in the new regulation. the vote was on accepting the first reading agreed with the council in january 2014. the whole reform of the common fisheries policy was a revolutionary success, which means, among other things, that overfishing is now prohibited. the european maritime and fisheries fund that we voted on today was intended to support this reform towards sustainable fishing. unfortunately, many elements of the commission's legislative proposal deteriorated during the negotiations with parliament and the council. after intensive work we managed to remove the worst weaknesses, such as subsidies for new shipbuilding and subsidies for taking over someone else's fishing activities. we also secured more money for fisheries control and the collection of scientific information. despite these successes, we did not make it all the way. too many subsidies driving continued overfishing were included in the final settlement, including start-up subsidies for young fishermen, engine replacement subsidies and fish storage subsidies. that is why i voted against the report.
in the light of the recent developments in the fisheries sector, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the fisheries sector in the new regulation. the vote was on accepting the first reading agreed with the council in january 2014. the reform of the common fisheries policy was a revolutionary success, which means that overfishing is now prohibited. the european maritime and fisheries fund that we voted on today was intended to support this reform towards sustainable fishing. unfortunately, many elements of the commission's legislative proposal deteriorated during the negotiations with parliament and the council. after intensive work we managed to remove the worst weaknesses, such as subsidies for new shipbuilding and subsidies for taking over someone else's fishing activities. we also secured more money for fisheries control and the collection of scientific information. despite these successes, we did not make it all the way. too many subsidies driving continued overfishing were included in the final settlement, including start-up subsidies for young fishermen, engine replacement subsidies and fish storage subsidies. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - within the eu, smes have difficulty in accessing capital for long-term projects. different national laws and the large amount of capital required have so far meant that the market has been dominated by a few large players such as established pension funds. as the eu economy depends on successful smes, access to finance is of paramount importance. that is why i am in favour of setting up alternative investment funds, which should be marketed to all categories of investors. promoting long-term investment opportunities promotes economic growth. by giving smaller players an opportunity to develop, the proposal also stimulates innovation and the development of new businesses that are vital to our future economic prosperity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the court's opinion on the data retention directive is clear, almost written in fire. the legislation adopted in the member states must therefore now be reviewed immediately, so that any retention of data is only within the limits of what is allowed under the charter of rights. the directive is invalidated by the court of justice because storage in its present form is incompatible with our fundamental rights and freedoms. i think it's good that the court is so clear. it leaves no doubt as to what we must do now. we are demanding that the member states guarantee the rights and freedoms of their citizens. of course, eu legislation must also do so. the judgment now gives us a new opportunity to improve legislation in this area. i am saying that the collection of electronic data should be linked to crime and not done unless there is a suspicion of crime. it is also important that we now review the national implementing legislation and that member states take account of the court's conclusions in their national legislation. the resolution also raises the question of whether we should legislate directly through eu directives or through eu regulations. a regulation becomes law in the member states, whereas a directive is transposed into national law. the procedure is very complicated and it is difficult to ensure that it has been carried out correctly. that is why we should now focus more on working with regulations rather than directives. i particularly welcome the fact that the commission will today reimburse sweden the amount of the fine that sweden was forced to pay because we were not considered to have implemented the directive in time. and with that joy and that gratitude, i conclude my speech.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am also very happy that finally, eight years after i lost the vote in parliament, thanks to the court, this ineffective, costly, offensive, frankly idiotic law is being thrown out. we could have avoided eight years of embarrassing violations of the rights of european citizens if we had listened to the data protection supervisor's advice. he was extremely critical, but we ignored it. fortunately, we won't be ignoring the court this time. i hope that the commission will ensure that all countries now comply with our charter of human rights and that no one is left hanging on to this invalid and illegal legislation. i also feel it's important to point out that the efficiency is ridiculous. the german evaluation shows that 0.006[nbsp ]percent of cases could have benefited and been helped by this legislation. in my opinion, the eu has never enacted a more ineffective law, even though it was often the one that violated our human rights the most. if you look at the court's decision, you also see that it was critical of a number of principles: the massive amount of data collected from all people, data of a sensitive nature and concerns about illegal access. this criticism can also be easily transferred to the swift agreement, pnr data and certain national laws such as the swedish fra act. i now wish the commission to make a general review of data processing laws of a similar type which could also very well, with the interpretation of the court, be considered illegal. i now ask the commission to give a timetable for how it intends to review other laws with similar problems such as data protection retention, so that we do not have to infringe rights in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european court of justice has now ruled that this is an illegal directive which violates human rights. that's why it's been automatically withdrawn. however, as has been pointed out here earlier, all the national laws implementing this directive still exist. the commission, and commissioner cecilia malmström in particular, now has a responsibility to ensure that the countries of europe uphold human rights. i would like to know what commissioner malmström will do to ensure that the countries withdraw these laws as soon as possible. this is true, for example, of our own country, sweden, which has introduced such laws. what will the commission do to ensure that they are withdrawn as quickly as possible in the various countries? and then there is the swift agreement, which also violates the very principles that the court criticizes, namely mass surveillance, mass storage of data for people who are not even suspected of a crime. can the commissioner now finally listen to parliament, which has repeatedly asked commissioner malmström to suspend the swift agreement with the united states?
mr president, i would like to thank you. after 50 years in politics and the last five years here in the european parliament, it feels both strange and sad to be giving your last little speech. i am very grateful, however, to have been able to be here in the european parliament for the past five years. the memory is very tangible that this is a parliament that fights for human rights and freedoms. we have spoken very often about the need to make europe a success. often it is about economic growth. i have every respect for that kind of reasoning. but if there is anything that must be really important for the european parliament and the members of this house, it is to stand up for the values of democracy, stand up for what every individual is entitled to, regardless of race, religion and whatever we can count and of course gender; there is always a danger of starting to count because then there is something that is missed. every individual has and should have an inviolable value. it's not something a government can allocate. it's in the human condition. it is true what has been said here in many places and it cannot be denied that worldwide christians in particular are persecuted for their faith. international human rights organizations say that 80 percent of those who are persecuted are persecuted because of their christian faith. there is no excuse for persecuting another, but there is reason to at some time actually undermine this too. sometimes i think we back down a little bit when we talk about christian values. we must not be afraid of our valuable identity in terms of the principles of the rule of law, in terms of freedom of expression and freedom of the press. there is no monopoly on this, but we must say that we have roots in christianity that we are not ashamed of and that we do not shrink back when we hear about them. because i think that there is a lot of tolerance and acceptance in having a self-worth identity when it comes to respecting others. let me say, as my main wish in my last little speech, that respect for human rights and freedoms should be the main signal for the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in fact, it happens that the rest of us put on a little smile when italy and its garbage collection, linked to the mafia, are mentioned. the fact is, however, that we have problems with illegal waste disposal all over the eu. instead of being properly managed, some of our waste is exported illegally, harming the environment and people, often children who handle our waste in poorer countries without knowledge or protection. we therefore naturally welcome this report with its increased requirements for checks. it is also the last time i shall speak in this parliament. i would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank all my colleagues, members of parliament, officials and also the commissioner for the good cooperation. it's been great. we have learned a great deal, and we have accomplished a great deal. thank you so much for everything and see you later.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i find it a little scandalous that the greek chair over there is empty in this house today, when we are discussing shortcomings and proposing improvements to how greece should deal with this situation. the greek presidency will not even be able to put its foot in the door of the house! this is unacceptable! recently, the judicial council of greece decided to extend the detention of migrants indefinitely until it is possible to deport them. the return decision is based on the principle that the return decision is binding on the member state concerned and that the member state concerned is entitled to take the measures necessary to comply with the return decision. it provides for a maximum period of 18 months in custody, which should only be possible in very special cases as a last resort. member states are obliged to comply with the rules on the maximum period of detention, as also laid down by the court of justice of the european union. the decision by greece comes as the deadline approaches for many migrants who were detained in a major operation in 2012. it is clear to me, and it is as clear as daylight, that this decision is contrary to eu law, that greece must release the people it has held in detention for so long or allow them to leave the country if they do not meet the criteria for international protection. there is now a risk that more countries, which have exceeded their powers, will follow if they have violated the rules on detention. it is now important that the commission actually investigates this and that we put an end to these terrible cases. these are people we're talking about! these are living people, and they're not criminals. these are desperate people seeking protection in the eu. all member states are now working to implement the asylum package. greece is not exempt from this responsibility.
i'm not sure. mario borghezio, that you are not ashamed to speak of people seeking refuge in europe because they have fled war and persecution. if we take syria as an example, there are six million people - not criminals, but doctors, nurses, civil engineers - seeking refuge in europe. that you have the nerve to say that northern european countries do not take their responsibilities! it's just ignorance or maybe even malicious speech on your part. sweden and germany are the ones who are taking in these people right now, offering them protection and new life opportunities. what are you doing? what are you doing?
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are several important translation errors in the swedish version, which i pointed out at the opening of the partsession on monday. in the meantime, i've been in contact with the legal linguists. the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary and financial aspects of the budget are properly implemented. since the errors concern the very principles of the negotiations between the council and the commission and parliament, it is important that i should emphasize that the english version is the one that applies when this is to be implemented in practice. in time, the legal linguists will put this in order. but as it stands, the swedish version is in direct conflict with the agreement with the council, and it is important that it is right when we are going to introduce the law.
in writing. - today's vote on the establishment of a framework for spatial planning in coastal and maritime areas and integrated coastal management was a first reading agreement with the council. i believe that there is a great need for marine planning in the eu. but all planning must be based on the assumption that we have functioning ecosystems and that any exploitation does not jeopardise our objective in the marine environment directive to achieve good environmental status. i am therefore very disappointed that all the references to the marine environment directive and its objective of good environmental status which were in the commission's original proposal have disappeared altogether in the articles of the negotiated text. i therefore chose to abstain in today's vote.
in writing. - today's vote on the establishment of a framework for spatial planning in coastal and maritime areas and integrated coastal management was a first reading agreement with the council. i believe that there is a great need for marine planning in the eu. but all planning must be based on the assumption that we have functioning ecosystems and that any exploitation does not jeopardise our objective in the marine environment directive to achieve good environmental status. i am therefore very disappointed that all the references to the marine environment directive and its objective of good environmental status which were in the commission's original proposal have disappeared altogether in the articles of the negotiated text. i therefore chose to abstain in today's vote.
in writing. today, one in four cartel cases leads to damages. it is important to increase the possibility for those affected by cartels to also receive compensation irrespective of their ranking. we must ensure that consumers moving through the single market have the best possible opportunity to defend themselves against overpricing, reckless companies or product defects. and that is best done through a european group hearing. today, 16 member states have rules allowing class action. these may be too restrictive or ineffective, and therefore uniform rules at eu level are needed. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market, i would have liked to see the group case included in the directive.
in writing. - we social democrats wholeheartedly support the objective of reducing the amount of plastic waste in the environment. unfortunately, a major problem in europe today is that plastic bags are largely released into the environment instead of being properly managed. the discard of plastic carrier bags in the wild is a major problem in europe and the rest of the world. we see its harmful effects first and foremost in our shared marine environment, where plastic waste has a huge negative impact on wildlife. we therefore welcome the commission's proposal to reduce the amount of plastic bags and to move towards more environmentally friendly alternatives. the consumption of plastic carrier bags varies across eu countries as a result of consumption patterns, national legislation and economic policies. this means that the conditions vary from one market to another. we have reservations about the european parliament's report being clumsy in this respect, because the thickness of the boxes is not the only factor determining whether or not the boxes are reused. the proposal as it stands now risks not reducing the use of plastic bags in swedish grocery stores but instead making them thicker. of course, this would not be good. despite these objections, we would still like to support the proposal at this first reading because it is important to reduce the use of plastic bags. we hope and are working to ensure that the forthcoming negotiations with the council of ministers will result in an ambitious regulatory framework which also takes account of swedish conditions. in addition, of course, there is a heavy responsibility on the swedish government to implement the forthcoming directive in a way that results in the greatest possible environmental benefit.
in writing. i voted for the resolution. i would like to stress in particular the importance of the eu acting with respect and without a eurocentric perspective in its relations with other countries. we should remember that several of the member states of the union are former colonial powers with a history of gross human rights violations in their former colonies. this historic responsibility must be acknowledged and new and just relations established. only then can the eu member states be global actors with a global perspective and global responsibilities. in view of this, i do not support paragraphs 17 and 33 of the resolution.
mr president, the crucial challenges we have are fundamental: to contribute to european security and stability, and to contribute and ensure that we can achieve growth and new jobs. it is difficult to see how we can do this without a strong europe. i think we need a strong europe in order to face the challenges of russia’s threat to european borders, tackle global climate change and ensure that we can have a strong european economy. i noted yesterday that some of our colleagues turned their backs to the opening ceremony and the european symbols. they are so right – they are so backward. i have never seen a truer political demonstration than when they turned their backs to what is happening in europe. that is because they like the past, and they are trying to walk backwards into the future. i would like to thank them for having shown their political ideology, which is to look back. we need to look forward: to reform and ensure that the association agreements are met with commitment and openness, that we reform for competitiveness, and that we are opening up the internal market and the digital agenda with clear proposals and legislation in this house. then we will move forward, and they will stay at the back.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the schengen agreement was concluded in a spirit of confidence and cooperation. since then, the world has changed. today we have a neighbourhood where borders are redrawn in blood and people are doing what people have always done - seeking a new and safer future here in the eu. the mediterranean countries are signalling that they are not able to provide a dignified reception and the dublin regulation is now out of the question. but the high number of arrivals, often in the hands of unscrupulous smugglers, is unsustainable. we therefore propose that the eu introduce the temporary border controls opened up by the schengen regulation. only then can we find solutions that move resources where they are needed and help people locally.
mr president, i would like to thank you. over 100 meetings with business lobbyists and just a handful with environmental, trade union and consumer organisations, it shows who is in the driver's seat of these projects and of these negotiations. and ttip is not about trade in shoes and bicycles, it is ultimately about the kind of society we want to live in and the democratic principles that should apply. the current ttip drafts threaten the environment, trade union rights, public health and, not least, democracy. and the right and the big corporations are sitting there cheering and clapping their hands in this kind of race to the bottom harmonization to the lowest possible level. this is what the leaked documents show. the ttip contains an investment protection which gives big business even more power to sue states if democratic decisions would reduce their profit margins. this is unacceptable. it is not just us on the left who will not accept it. the citizens of europe will never accept such a trade agreement. for democracy, we will not compromise.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council considers that the directive we are talking about, the 1992 directive on pregnant workers, is an integral part of the legislation on safety and health at work and we also believe that it is a very important directive which certainly needs to be updated in several respects. that is why the council has made it one of its priorities since 2008, when the european commission presented its proposal. the european parliament, too, has done a very important job, given the importance of the subject. the negotiations in the council were important negotiations, and they were also very difficult. it is very difficult because of the distance between the positions within the council and the considerable distance between the positions of the council of ministers and the european parliament. what are the main points of difficulty? substantial differences have emerged between the different national social systems in this area. these are very substantial differences and reflect a considerable diversity between the social systems at national level in the various member states. cost-related difficulties have emerged, difficulties which should not be underestimated in general terms but which should not be underestimated in particular at a time of considerable pressure on public budgets. finally, difficulties arose in the area of subsidiarity because of the very different traditions and practices of the various member states. as regards the differences in substance, i will give only as an example the question of the duration and timing of compulsory leave, on which there are strong differences and also strong differences of views between the various member states within the council. as far as costs are concerned, there has certainly been no agreement and i think it would be very difficult to negotiate a minimum of 20 weeks' leave as requested by the european parliament. this is a request on which there has been no advanced and thorough discussion and certainly no agreement in the council. i shall give you some other examples of subsidiarity. some member states have raised the fact that some of the rules covered by the legislative proposal are already included in national rules. i am thinking of breastfeeding time off, special working arrangements for parents of disabled children or supplementary maternity leave in certain cases. the council considered that the detailed provisions, including the detailed rules for implementing the minimum standards, were therefore a matter for the member states. more generally, however, member states have reiterated their commitment to the safety and health of pregnant workers and those who have given birth or are breastfeeding, and there is strong recognition within the council of the importance of reconciling work and private life. on the question of improving the existing rules on the protection of pregnant workers and promoting a better work-life balance, however, we must find the appropriate instruments in the right policy area. it would be difficult for the council to accept such proposals from the european parliament in the context of health and safety legislation. however, this in no way diminishes the valuable contribution which this parliament has made to the debate on this subject. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the discussions which i have just summarized in this speech have therefore revealed very concrete and substantial differences between the views of the council and the position of the european parliament at first reading, and it is in the light of these strong contradictions and strong differences that the commission has concluded that it must consider withdrawing its proposal. this is certainly a prerogative which the treaties give to the commission. the commission certainly has the possibility at any time to table and withdraw its legislative proposals. so these are institutional assessments which are the commission's responsibility and which only the commission can make. these are assessments of the proper functioning of the legislative process and the implementation of the refit rules, which are also assessed by the european commission. and then there are assessments of policy opportunities, and these, in particular, i would like to talk to you about in conclusion. we believe as the presidency in office that the issue of the protection of pregnant workers at european level is of the utmost importance, is of the utmost importance in the light of the wider social dimension that we must develop in the internal market and is also of the utmost importance as a matter of social rights. so we can try again with the rotating presidency, it is worth trying again, and we are also prepared, if we start from a new political base and a new beginning, to examine the proposal again in the council and in parliament. we are willing to see if the conditions are right, working with the new rapporteur, to restart, to try to prevent the proposal from coming to a dead end. it is clear that if we want to make progress and really want to reopen the subject, progress must be made on both sides. so we must certainly see whether the political conditions are there, starting with the relations between parliament and the council, to restart the legislative negotiations by listening to each other's arguments. the presidency is prepared, if the european parliament is equally prepared to make a new start on a different political basis, to consider whether this debate can be reopened in the council of ministers, given the importance we attach to this dossier, but without concealing all the difficulties and obstacles i have pointed out with examples in my introduction.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, the commission is committed to helping eu citizens, men and women, to better combine work and family life. the fact that the maternity leave proposal has been identified in the refit communication of june 2014 as a candidate for withdrawal does not change that. since 2008, when the proposal was presented, the commission has sought its adoption. the commission has acted as an honest broker between parliament and the council to find common ground. this has proven to be difficult. the commission’s proposal on the maternity leave directive has not been discussed for more than two and a half years despite numerous attempts by the commission to reinvigorate negotiations between co-legislators. the proposal has been effectively blocked in the legislative process for too long, with no progress at all for almost three years. in spite of considerable efforts it has been impossible to break this stalemate and engage in any serious negotiations. as you know, one of the intentions of the refit exercise is to withdraw proposals where no negotiations have taken place for a significant period of time and which lack any prospects for adoption. it does not mean that the commission does not believe anymore in its initial objectives. on the contrary it could allow for a fresh, new start on the subject to the greater benefit of eu citizens with a more modern text that would notably include in its scope paternity leave, as requested by parliament. the commission remains committed through its europe 2020 strategy to helping women to stay in the labour market rather than being excluded from it because they chose to have children. in this respect it issued country specific recommendations to several member states to stress the importance of creating the conditions for reconciliation of private and professional life.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. women and men should have the same right and opportunity to work. having children should not be a barrier to women in the workforce. stronger protection for working parents is needed, but the solution is not to legislate from brussels. i therefore welcome the commission's withdrawal of the maternity leave directive. family policy should be decided at national level. there are great differences in europe and i understand the challenges in some countries, but we cannot have a solution that suits everyone in the eu. in sweden, for example, we have come a long way. of the total 1.5 years per child, at least 2 months should be taken out of each parent, and the mother and father can get a bonus if they share more equally. the directive would therefore represent a major step backwards for the whole of the nordic region. it is incomprehensible that the swedish social democrats, who are sceptical of the eu, are now pushing to force swedish women to stay at home - whatever they want. the implementation of a ban on women working in childbirth in brussels is not the way forward for gender equality. maternity leave, madam president, is to be parental leave. the proposal sends the wrong signal by mentioning only women as parents and thus solely responsible for the children. it is shared parental leave that is true equality. we will encourage both parents to care for their children and spend time with them. it's a decision that should be made by the parents themselves and not dictated by politicians. of course, women should not have to give up their career ambitions, and it is important that employers give women the opportunity to return to the workforce without discrimination. it's about changing attitudes and fighting stereotypes. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that the ppe group will continue to be committed to ensuring that women who give birth are not discriminated against in working life. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question blue card. silvia the problem here is that we have completely different systems, completely different traditions. you know i'm an italian elected in sweden, so i know the difference. we cannot make it compulsory at european level, because the mothers' directive says that you are obliged not to work for 15 days before the birth and for 6 weeks after the birth. in sweden and other nordic countries there are many women who work before giving birth and also immediately after giving birth because it is perhaps the fathers who take the lead. so it is not right to force, and i am talking about the word "force" on women. it is good that we can add the minimum but not the obligation at european level, when we are finally talking about subsidiarity, to start doing better at european level. this is a good start by the commission and one which is very welcome.
madam president, i would like to thank you. unfortunately, the commission has been wrong about the maternity leave directive. withdrawing the bill is the wrong way to go. the obvious thing is to ensure that the process is carried out. firstly, it should be possible to reach a compromise between parliament and the council on how to improve the directive. if the commission and the presidency give priority to the issue, a solution should be within reach. secondly, the need to strengthen the regulatory framework is more important than ever. increasing gender equality is not only important in itself but also a key enabler of growth and job creation in europe. i therefore call on the commission and the presidency to press forward resolutely with this important issue of gender equality. don't throw in the towel! instead, show that you take equality seriously!
madam president, i would like to thank you. i'll be honest with you. i do not think this proposal is good enough. there are certain things in particular that i do not like, such as this, that you have to stay at home for six weeks. it is also a proposal that speaks one-sidedly about the role of mothers. a politician in his day had spoken of two mothers, two fathers, a mother and a father, or why not several parents. but the fact that the commission now wants to withdraw the whole proposal in one fell swoop, a proposal which does not ask for more than the bare minimum, can only be interpreted in one way: a blow to the face of women's rights and gender equality. the commission's return with a better proposal is simply not credible at this stage. we have heard juncker: not a word about equality, not a word. he has no ideas and he has no program. inequalities between women and men are growing, and women's vulnerability in the labour market is increasing. moreover, the repeal of the maternity leave directive is nothing but an expression of patriarchal arrogance.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. there's not much that the world agrees on about the situation in syria, but the destruction of chemical weapons is an exception. these weapons have been used in densely populated areas and there are no guarantees that this will not happen again on the initiative of various parties to the conflict. we greens fully support both the production and destruction of all chemical weapons in the region on the road to a middle east completely free of chemical weapons. that in itself is an objective which all the states in the non-proliferation treaty support. but destroying them is not an easy task, nor is it without risk, and it must be done with the utmost security. transporting the weapons long distances by air is not an option. since no neighbouring country has offered to deal with the destruction within its territory, the least bad model has been chosen. this means that they are first destroyed on board the cape ray on the high seas and then transported to a number of countries with special capacity to incinerate the toxic waste. for maximum safety, the boat should be in a place where it is protected from severe weather and wind conditions, but as i said, no state has agreed to that. as greens, my colleagues and i fully understand both the fear and the protests in greece and we believe that it is of the utmost importance that the handling of arms is carried out with full transparency both in terms of information to the authorities and to the citizens of the countries concerned. the weapons must be destroyed, the waste must be destroyed, and without destroying the mediterranean.
madam president, i think it is important to look at the forest and not just the trees because lithuaniaʼs entry into the euro area now is a sign of achievements, of reforms and changes, of lithuania having left behind the deep economic crisis. but it is also a sign that there is change going on in the baltic region where some of the most modern, competitive and stable economies are emerging, not only in the baltic area but also around the baltic sea, with the german economy, finland, the three baltic states. i know that some colleagues are suspicious of everything here but let us look at the big picture – lithuania now firmly rooted in the european economy. but it is also a sign that you can make the changes. i think that those of you over there should worry much more about those countries which are not carrying out reforms, not making changes; not those that are showing that you can achieve a fundamental stability by the policies you need. i think you should be much more critical of those which are not trying to be in. from my point of view, from my swedish perspective, what we now see is a new sign in the nordic and baltic region where i think it is even more important for sweden to enter. i congratulate lithuania but i think we can also congratulate europeans because now we know that you can make a change. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for that philosophical question. the answer is very easy and is that nothing is certain in reality or in life, but sometimes you need to make a judgement. what interests me is how you can be so sure that everything is wrong in a region where one has seen competitiveness and stability merging? how can you be so sure that it is wrong to have an open economy which is giving prosperity and development? how can you be so sure that it is wrong for lithuania to enter the stable framework of the european economy? how can you be so sure?
madam president, i would like to thank you. i want to report on the situation in the northern part of europe, in sweden. we have a very high youth unemployment rate there too, and that is why we have also been granted extra support through the eu youth employment initiative. however, the swedish government recently decided to pay out only a fraction of the eu money for what it calls 'budgetary technical reasons'. the town of avesta in the dalarna is one of the latest examples of what this is leading to. there are completed projects which could be started immediately if they received eu funds, but they are not getting them now. there is much to criticize the eu and the eu's actions in dealing with the economic crisis, but there are also national governments that are not taking advantage of the opportunity. i would like to ask commissioner andor the following question: what is your view of the reduction in targeted measures which the swedish government has now decided to take in relation to youth unemployment? what can you do? what are you going to do?
madam president, this is my first time speaking in this political house and that is why i want to start by making certain things clear. i have already said this to mr juncker at a meeting when he visited our group and met members who are fighting for sovereignty and democracy in the efdd. we love europe, which is a beautiful continent, but we are against this terrible union. we really want to work together with other countries in europe, of course, but not in this way, and we do not want to lose our own sovereignty. every day we see national powers being transferred to brussels; it will not take long before we have no say any more about our own future. the united states of europe will be a fact, with sweden as a province. in sweden we have 25% of young people out of work. why is this happening? the european council has come with its youth employment initiative. that eu strategy is a real failure; it was set up to support young people not in education, employment or training in regions with a youth unemployment rate in 2012 of above 25%. there are very large disparities between the youth employment rates in different regions. for example, in spain and cyprus the rates of youth unemployment in december 2013 were 54.3% and 40.8% respectively. in greece, the youth unemployment rate for november 2013 was 59%. in sweden it stands currently at around 25%. the problem is that most of the eu funding allocated to addressing youth unemployment will be allocated to countries with a much higher youth unemployment rate than sweden. so we are the backyard and we can pay for the other countries, which is totally unfair. as have i said already, solidarity is very easy when other people’s money is involved. youth unemployment is today again an item on the agenda of this house. again we have recommendations on how to tackle youth unemployment in the eu. again we are trying to make it easier for young people to move to jobs or training and to have eu support for quality standards for traineeships and apprenticeships. well, let me explain something: it does not matter how many times we put youth unemployment on the agenda, and it does not matter if we add another eur 300 billion from mr juncker to boost growth and jobs – the eu will not succeed. our taxpayers already contribute the role of the money to the eu and now again mr juncker wants to have more money for his first top priority as commission president. more money for what? more money to create jobs, which is pure communism and shows that mr juncker was running away on the communistic highway even before being elected. we want a better and stronger sweden, but above all we want our sovereignty back.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it is striking in this debate how weak the reasoning is on both the political left and the political right. the political right thinks that we will be stronger by closing our borders and making it impossible for the millions of jobs that are not created in the european union to be created. the political left, for its part, believes that the only way to create more jobs is through more money and public projects. the truth is, i think, rather, in a long list of other things that we have to look at going forward. how can we create common markets so that smes can function? how can we get a trade deal with the united states that will strengthen our economy? hardly any of my honourable colleagues have in any way raised the fact that we have just been through the deepest economic crisis in europe for almost 100 years. if we cannot create rules that create greater economies for businesses, we will not be able to afford to fix unemployment.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by expressing my support for the motion for a resolution on which parliament is to take a position today. one of the places mentioned in the resolution is the assyrian city of karakosh, where church bells rang for services half a millennium before christianity came to my country, sweden. however, the ringing of church bells in the city on june 25 of this year signaled something quite different from a service. now it was a desperate warning to the population, and just a day later the city was emptied of its population. the relatives and families who had lived in the city for generations were forced to leave everything behind - staying behind was not an option when the isis death squads advanced. in the neighboring city of mosul, church bells did not ring at all the following sunday. for the first time in 1,600 years, the city had no sunday services. madam president, reports of bloody suicide attacks on churches or christians being murdered by fanatical jihadists are increasing. in the face of such a situation, the outside world cannot stand idly by. in the short term, the advance of isis must be stopped and a government of national unity established. when a delegation of iraqi church leaders visited us here in the european parliament a week ago, they stressed the importance of support for the development of democracy and security. the eu and its member states must help. the situation requires us to help you across party lines. the resolution we have to adopt today is a step in the right direction, but condemnation in the european parliament is not enough. the whole of the european union, including the council and the high representative for foreign affairs, must now put this issue at the top of the agenda.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have received some figures from mr della vedova on the number of people killed in the gaza strip and southern israel in the last few days. and how many have been killed in the last five years? the last ten years? the last 40 years? and how many will have lost their lives and their hopes before there can be a lasting peace based on a two-state solution where two democratic states can live side by side? of course, direct peace talks must be resumed. both parties must also address the underlying causes. extremism must be repressed, settlement policy must end. the eu and the member states of europe must play a more active political role. this is the most central issue for us, it is necessary to solve and to engage in. we will do everything we can, said mr della vedova. good, do it now with us, with the un security council and regional actors. and to all of you who have participated in this debate with senseless outcomes and claims, i would like to recommend that you try to do the following: see yourself in others.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when you hear some of the comments here, it seems as if the current situation is solely the fault of the palestinians, but you forget to say that israel is an occupying power and that israel has a responsibility to protect the civilian population in occupied territory. nor does israel have the right to use more violence than is necessary in self-defence. we must have the courage to condemn the excessive violence and we must be clear about it. dilute resolutions or more trade for nothing, that does not move the issue forward. the israeli government does not represent all its citizens either. today a demonstration was held here outside the premises of an israeli citizen to show solidarity with the palestinian state, with the suffering of the palestinians and to tell us in the eu that it is not okay to bomb civilians. i asked him what he wanted me to do in this chamber. he said, say it's not about pro-israel or pro-palestine - it's old politics and it doesn't work - but it's about adhering to international law and humanitarian law. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). i am glad that i was given a question ('blue card') to answer because i am so upset by the senseless statements that i have heard in this house today. and i share the view of my swedish social democrat colleague that these are nonsensical statements. of course, it is not that these 66 years have passed unnoticed in any way, but we should know that there are two people involved: there is an occupying power and there is an occupied people.
in writing. - i've put my vote down. the proposed resolution highlights youth unemployment and the enormous problems it creates in the eu today. it stresses the importance of combating youth unemployment as an investment in the future. i agree with that. but the resolution does not single out austerity policies as the main cause of the extremely high youth unemployment. it should also emphasise more clearly the importance of an expansionary economic policy which, through green investment and increased prosperity, creates jobs and promotes gender equality and social justice. i also object to the demand for new supranational legislation in paragraph 3 and the demand for reduced taxes for companies in paragraph 43. that's why i've put my vote down.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in my group, we see the law, which has some flaws, as a good first step to improve the rights of children and youth in general in bolivia, not least because it has a rights-based focus and sees children as subjects rather than objects. the 348 articles include the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex or disability, the right to complain, the right of children and young people to a safe environment, education, information, personal privacy, etc. instead of threatening withdrawal of aid, we think the commission should be more involved financially, to actually support the implementation of the law and also to be able to contribute to children's schooling. is this something the commission could consider doing? someone has also mentioned this organisation for child labourers who have also been involved in this work of drafting the law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement. however, i have several serious objections to the procedure itself, including the use of a so-called urgency procedure where the european parliament quickly votes through the agreement without being able to examine or discuss it. it is not responsible to represent the citizens in that way. the agreement is also subject to the approval by the ukrainian parliament through an expedited procedure, just weeks before the national elections in ukraine. it's not taking the democratic process seriously. a central part of the agreement is a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), with far-reaching implications for the economy as well as for social, environmental and food standards. the 'emergency procedure' used has prevented the competent parliamentary committee on international trade from examining the part of the agreement constituting the fta. unfortunately, the agreement has not been surrounded by a genuine political debate, as it should have been.
mr president, at a time when mr putin is probing our weakness and trying to redraw the borders of europe with military force, at a time when the people of ukraine are subject to an invasion with military force, i think it is very important that this parliament has united with a strong majority to show our support. i have voted in favour of the association agreement with ukraine wholeheartedly. it is very important economically, but it is also an important political signal that we do not accept this way of acting in europe. their problem, their fight for freedom, for sovereignty, for territorial integrity, is our common european fight. i do regret that both the left and extreme right have turned their back by voting against this agreement in a large majority . i think it is unacceptable; it goes against the european values we all stand for.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-ukraine agreement on the workers' rights part (the moraes report). the agreement stipulates that there must be no discrimination against third-country workers. it's important, you know. i would like to stress my criticism of the urgency procedure used, whereby the european parliament quickly votes through the agreement without being able to examine or discuss it. it is not responsible to represent the citizens in that way. the agreement is also subject to the approval by the ukrainian parliament through an expedited procedure, just weeks before the national elections in ukraine. the whole procedure is therefore a lightning-quick process that does not take the democratic process seriously. the agreement could have been improved if it had been dealt with by the ordinary procedure by both the european parliament and ukrainian parliamentarians.
mr president, i think we need to understand the logic of digital development. it is a worldwide development, which means that things are happening all the time: new products, new services, new generations coming up everywhere, here and there, and all the time. this means that, in this global market, you cannot be number two, because everyone will, in the long run, choose the number one. this means that if you are to be the leading digital single market, you need to be the most digitalised market. a more digitalised europe really means more europe. that is why we need to have structural reforms to get rid of 28 different local markets – it is so old-fashioned. we need to ensure that we can have lower costs and more investments, and that is why we need a single market with operators covering all the markets and delivering the best services. we need to aim for the highest capacities and the best speeds; because where you have those things, you will have new things developing. the services of tomorrow are not possible with the capacities of today. if we ensure that we have the best capacities, the highest speeds, the greatest spectrum, and the most opportunities, then we will see the new services of tomorrow and the day after that develop here in europe. the new products and the new companies, as well as our old companies, will be able to lead, and we will have the leading digital single market making the single market of the european union a reality. that is what we need to do. it is very simple, very complicated, but requires decisiveness.
madam president, we had a very unusual summer in sweden this year. we had the largest forest fire in modern swedish history. i do not know if you could even smell the smoke in denmark, but we actually had to call for fire-fighters from italy to help us. we had floods, we had sudden violent rainfall and the human and economic consequences of all this are enormous. when we look at the future, the consequences of a warming planet with competition for water and for farmland, with rising sea levels, we will see climate refugees and there will be enormous economic and human consequences. so how will we explain all this to our children and grandchildren? that the burning of brown coal was just so cheap that it was not profitable to switch to renewables? that we had the technology for renewables but we did not use it, we did not invest in it because it was not competitive? i would like to say to the council that we all know that the only way of making renewable energy and smart energy savings lucrative for the industry is if the eu sets binding targets that will drive global innovation and investment in this direction, so we can eventually leave the cheap and dirty coal in the ground. we know there is enough free and eternally renewable energy around for us to build a new clean society that we can be proud of and that is what i want to be able to tell my children and grandchildren that we did. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you mr ferreira, it is clear that the emission trading scheme is not sufficient in order to replace fossil fuels and switch over to renewables, so we need the binding targets. i think that is the main political message that we can send to the industry and to research: that this is the future for europe. now to emit one tonne of co2 costs only eur 5 and to try to put it in the ground with carbon capture and storage costs eur 40; by that i mean it is too cheap to put this co2 in the air. that is a fact.
blue-card question. – i have a question for mr helmer. have you ever looked outside your own nation and your own parliament? because there actually are countries that are succeeding in having economic growth and strong industry and a strong economy, and still lowering their emissions from fossil fuels. in sweden we currently have more than 50% of renewables in our energy system. but, in order to achieve that, you need to have a government that is actually able to do it, and if industries are moving away from your country it is not because you have a strong scheme for saving the climate, it is probably because you have a too weak one that is not forcing your industries to be better at doing the right thing.
madam president, as a token of respect for the commissioner who is leaving office, and as a thank you for the good job she has done, i will speak in swedish, my native language. fru talman! det är ett oerhört viktigt möte som vi går till mötes under nästa vecka. under dessa år av finanskris har ambitionerna på klimatområdet kommit att bli mycket, mycket svagare. alltför många har inte sett de utmaningar som har kunnat bli till möjligheter i form av forskning, nya arbeten och ett ökat energiflöde. vi kan också se en energipolitisk, politisk och säkerhetspolitisk kris gentemot våra östra grannländer. vi kan se hur ukraina kämpar och nu räds inför den vinter som ska komma. vi bär alla ett ansvar att se till att vi får mer av energi men också mer av rätt energi i vår energimix. vi behöver system som är starka och driver i rätt riktning. det kommer också att driva fram jobben. den som talar om att det kostar arbeten har missat den debatt som pågår om all teknologi, alla företag och alla arbeten som kan komma till av detta. den som inte vill se utsläppen och klimatgaserna som ett stort problem missar också det faktum att 94 000 människor beräknas dö årligen på grund av utsläpp som vi gör och som drabbar deras hälsa och deras liv. vi har en chans att göra detta, men för det krävs att vi lägger stor politisk tyngd in i nästa veckas möte, så att vi får ett momentum inför de möten som komma ska. till detta önskar jag all lycka.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is my first speech in parliament. it feels good to talk in swedish, because i know that the swedish people want us to take a strong stand on climate. i would also like to speak to the swedish electorate and say that it is very, very important to do this for parliament. i would like to address the outgoing commissioner and say that next week is an important summit. i think that given our size, we should absolutely take a leadership role in any context where we have an opportunity to take the lead. however, whatever happens at next week's meeting, i would also like to point out to this parliament that we have an important role to play in making sure that the climate and energy package is tough, that it contains three binding targets, that we take responsibility for both emissions, for renewable energy and for energy efficiency improvements. so whatever happens next week, we as a parliament must also keep pushing and make this a reality by 2030. the world leaders have an important role to play next week, but we in the european parliament and the next commission must also ensure that there are important years ahead.
in writing. i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is important that we now take seriously the religious persecution that has been going on for over ten years. because let's remember: even before the islamic state's invasion of mosul, half of iraq's christians had been forced to flee the country. what has happened in recent months is that the situation has become urgent and therefore requires exceptional solutions. one such solution is the creation of a safe zone for the threatened minorities. with an internationally supervised protection zone, security would be increased threatened groups could return home. the organisation a demand for action, founded in sweden, has long been working for protected and safeguarded areas. the founder of this organization, nori kino, says this: assyrians, chaldeans, syrians, yazidis and other ethno-religious groups must have a safe zone. not voting for this is voting for the advance of terrorism. the proposal for a safe zone is included in the epp resolution today. unfortunately, it has been deleted from the joint resolution. the socialists, liberals and greens blocked this proposal. two points recur in their argument. firstly, this would require military action. secondly, there is too much talk about vulnerable christians. in this context, it is relevant to ask the social democrats, the liberals and the greens what their message is to the people who are currently fearing for their lives and who are pleading for our help with security and protection in northern iraq. of course, maintaining a zone of peace requires military action. of course, christians are in the spotlight, but not only christians. a free zone would also mean protection for yazidis and shiites. i will vote in favour of the joint resolution, but at the same time i will continue to work for a peaceful zone. to give up the fight for the right of people to practice their religion freely would be to capitulate to the advance of terrorism.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we are here today to talk about human rights and democracy in the world. i wonder how democracy can be taught when even in this parliament democracy is not understood. it is just as bad when you go to our individual nations. i can see in my own country, sweden, where we just had a national election. my party got 13 percent of the vote. the first thing that happens is that there is a discussion about how to exclude us from having any influence in politics. is it called respecting a democratic election when you exclude 13 percent of the country's electorate? this circus continues when you come here to parliament. when you do not get what you want, you try to exclude groups, just as you did here in the case of the committee on petitions, when you practically stole a presidency that was important to the efdd group. it's not a democracy. you don't know what the word democracy means. this is not how it's supposed to work. you have to respect the rules that exist. that's what democracy is. we also have a president, martin schulz, who has no basic knowledge of democracy. it is accepting the opinions of others rather than your own with respect. he doesn't know how to do that. we saw on tuesday when we signed the agreement with ukraine that a lot of people on the left are standing up and shouting for the floor, to which schulz asks if anyone has anything to add. then he denies the people on the left a say. it is a real embarrassment to be represented in this parliament by such a chairman.
madam president, i would like to thank you. actually, i had questions, but the people i wanted to ask aren't in the room today. i would like to make a few comments, however. i agree with some speakers who have expressed continued support for the work of mr lambrinidis. i'm going to do it. it's a big crisis in europe, in the whole world. i was also going to say that this is the highest priority in general, also in view of the far-right parties that are emerging in our democratic forums and then destroying democracy. it is strange that the people who talk the most about democracy and human rights are the very people who choose to say human rights for christians. what about everyone else? i'm also thinking about jaroka. you're not the only roma. i'm a roma woman here, too. i have witnessed and experienced all these abuses. today, in 2014, there are almost no roma in the eu or outside the eu who enjoy human rights in any field - rights that are universal, indivisible and, in fact, worldwide. it should not be necessary to set one group against another in order to be recognized and to experience the equal value and dignity of all people. there is a lot to be done, and i support it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we in the gue/ngl are of course deeply concerned about the case of asia bibi, but we are also deeply concerned that the number of death sentences being handed down is increasing rather than decreasing. according to amnesty international, 778 people were sentenced to death in 2013. 778 have been executed in 2013 and 1 925 were sentenced to death. there are 23,392 people on death row. we would like to have a more general debate in plenary with the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm sorry about that. i'm new to this chamber. what i would like to ask is that instead of discussing a specific case, i would like us to discuss with the high representative more generally about the death penalty, so that we are not limited to just one case. we want a statement from her about the death penalty and the fact that it is increasing in the world rather than decreasing.
mr president, it is quite interesting to see how very many of the members of this chamber always want to blame someone other than the member states for their economic policy and their budget policy. there is no more rapid way to austerity than overspending, and where you have had overspending you have crashed into austerity without any choice. and still the left here is defending overspending, at the same time as eu critics over there are blaming someone else. but let us see how things have worked. in the countries where there was overspending, there are big problems; when you turn the policies, with stability and reforms, we see growth coming and new jobs. this is the pattern and in some ways, in that perspective, we do not need any report. we can just take a look at the reality, because in the member states where you are implementing the rules and where you are reforming we have turned away from the crisis – in the united kingdom, in spain, in portugal – but where you proceed you see it in countries like france. we need to stick to the rules; that is what we have learned from reality. let us stay with that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. to boost growth and job creation in europe, we need to build a better functioning labour market. it should become an increasingly central factor in the planning cycle. it is about strengthening active labour market policy. short training courses and a different match enable the unemployed to take up the available jobs. it is about strengthening social dialogue. where partners work closely together, stability, good working conditions and the ability to solve problems effectively are created. it is also about guaranteeing equal treatment. to promote mobility, those working in other eu countries must be sure of avoiding dumping in terms of wages and conditions. there is a huge potential for improvement in the european labour market. it must now be seriously exploited.
in writing. - i voted for this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we can perhaps accept the fund being used as a purely emergency measure at a time when the eu is in a deep economic crisis - especially in view of the sense of hopelessness and exclusion that has followed in the wake of the crisis and which risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia that is spreading in the eu today. we do not think, however, that the fund will be justified once the crisis is over.
in writing. - i voted for this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - i voted for this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - i voted for this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i want to address the prime ministers of europe who are now meeting to agree on the goals of climate policy. i want you to stand up for knowledge, science and rationality. do not give in to short-term interests and ignorance. you can negotiate down the targets and postpone the decisions. you can look away, but the problems don't go away. they're getting worse. they're affecting more people, and they're costing more. because climate change is real, and we all know the cause, and we all know why. it's about burning the fossil fuels, oil, coal and gas. but the solutions are already here. look at the countries that have invested in renewable fuels. they still have their industry. they have lower energy prices. i therefore appeal to you, the heads of government of europe, to stand up as adults. show that you are worthy leaders and take the responsibility necessary to meet the climate challenge.
mr president, four points that are important. first of all, a clear line versus russia and its war in ukraine. this is the most fundamental task for the european union: to preserve and defend peace. the aggression we see today from russia is a threat to the peace order of today. this needs the support of all member states and it must be clear and consistent. secondly, we need to attract investment into the european union. that means that we need to fight red tape, to use the new opportunities of having a vice-president of the commission responsible for better regulation and fighting bureaucracy. we can only attract investment if there is an opportunity for companies to profit, for companies to develop. we need capital markets that are liquid all over the european union. so we need to ensure that our regulation and legislation is not hindering liquidity-making and investment. thirdly, we need to secure credibility and the stability of public finances in the european union. how we face developments in those countries which are not living up to the stability pact will be crucial and decisive for the future. if we make new derogations for some countries just because they are big, we are making a big mistake. we did it in 2003; we must not do it now because it will damage the credibility of the whole of the european union. fourthly, the ambitions, the targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, are more important than the number of very many different targets. we need to focus and give priority to reducing carbon dioxide emissions, not try to steer the member states to where they can do things better. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – to be honest, i do not know on what planet you are living. we have seen for more than a decade that russia is a threat to european energy security, blocking energy distribution and using its energy resources for political blackmail. can you not see the fact that one country is invading another country in europe? if you are defending that, you are defending aggression. you are defending disrespect for sovereign countries, and you are defending those who are threatening europe’s peaceful order. you can do that because you are living in a free europe, but people like you are undermining our freedom. (applause)
madam president, i would like to thank you. we must never forget that the independence of the rule of law, the freedom of the media and the equal rights of all people are the foundations of european cooperation. hungary is a country which has repeatedly violated these rights. it started with the establishment of a state-controlled media council, continued with the forced retirement of judges and, tragically, also the criminalization of the most vulnerable, namely the homeless. recently, orbán took his statements to a new level when he simply stated that the world's greatest political leaders, in his opinion, are putin and erdoğan. at the same time, he wanted to abolish the concept of liberal democracy as a principle. it is clear that the disintegration of hungary is taking place in one area after another. we have repeatedly adopted resolutions in this parliament which have not yet been taken up by the council of ministers, which has shown an unimaginable cowardice in this respect. the commission says it is following developments, but while the rights of hungarian citizens are being violated, so far we have seen only words and very little action. the eu was created to protect the rights of its citizens, not the ability of states to infringe those rights. that is why we must now immediately introduce the article 7 procedure. this is about the rights of the citizens of europe. today we should all feel loyalty to the citizens of hungary, whose rights are being systematically violated. (the president accepted the replies to the 'carton bleu' question)
(blue card) president. - the debate is closed. it is not right that we should now highlight the abuses of a group and thereby somehow legitimize what is happening now and has been happening in hungary in a systematic way for years. we have worked so hard on this in parliament. but article 7 has to be enforced. it is the key to actually getting things in order in hungary. the foundation of our common work in the european union is based on common values and values and this must not be jeopardised.
in writing. - through the eu treaty, we have committed to ensuring gender equality and equal rights. this is clear from article 23 of the charter of fundamental rights and article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it should therefore be an obvious starting point that the eu institutions have an equal representation of men and women. the european commission should set an example for the member states and represent the eu’s fundamental values before the rest of the world. this is particularly important in times when fascism and anti-democratic forces are growing in europe. the president-elect of the commission, jean-claude juncker, has ahead of today’s vote proposed a college of commissioners where only 9 of 28 members are women. this composition does not live up to the commitment to ensure gender equality and equal rights. it does not live up to the definition of gender equality that the commission itself has set out. for this reason i have chosen to vote against the current proposal. i think it would be a betrayal of the eu’s fundamental values to accept a new college of commissioners that is as unequal as the previous one.
in writing. - the moderates in the european parliament voted today on the eu budget for 2015. as the budget was increased compared to last year, we were very sceptical that the european parliament wanted to increase the budget further, especially given that many eu countries suffer from deficits and high public debts. it is therefore important that the eu budget is used correctly and that politicians take responsibility for both sweden's and the eu's economy. for this reason, we have chosen to support the european parliament's demand for more funding for research, innovation and the completion of the internal market, as this is what brings added value to both sweden and the eu. in addition, it was important for us to support the eu's asylum and migration programmes to create safe and legal pathways into the eu, including by strengthening frontex. but we cannot accept that more of the taxpayers' money is spent on agricultural subsidies and huge subsidy schemes to support ageing and climate-damaging industries.
in writing. i voted against the budget. the budget is too large and too comprehensive. there should be major cuts. agriculture is just one example. it results in overproduction and negative effects on the environment, climate and livestock. another example is the uncontrollable regional and structural funds, where there is widespread fraud, as the commission itself has confirmed. i am opposed to the frontex initiative, which means the continuation of the construction of fortress europe, which forces people fleeing war and oppression to risk their lives to reach a place of refuge. this and the initiative to increase the militarization of the eu is the wrong way forward for a union which claims to defend human rights and is a peace project. i also think it is wrong in principle for the european parliament to have power over the budget. the member states that pay the eu budget should have full say on the union's expenditure. it is more democratic for the governments of the member states and the national parliaments to decide on the long-term budget. it is the taxpayers of the member states who pay and therefore it is their directly elected representatives in each country who should have the power. these are some of the reasons why i am voting against the budget.
in writing. - the eu needs a modern budget that responds to the real needs of today and the major challenges of tomorrow, such as youth unemployment, refugee flows and climate change. we cannot therefore accept the council's general stance, which involves cuts in what is aimed at creating jobs and growth - such as research and small business - and in important areas such as humanitarian aid, disaster relief and support for countries in our eastern partnership such as ukraine. moreover, the council's attitude is, once again, a failure to meet its own commitments, which is unethical and unfair to individual beneficiaries and project owners across europe. of course, there is money to be saved in the eu budget today, but it should be done more strategically and targeted. we have therefore voted in favour of the proposals calling for the cessation of aid for tobacco farming, bullfighting and export refunds for live animals. there is scope for cuts in other areas as well. however, as a 'negotiating invitation' in the continuing process, we chose - for the reasons stated above - to support the committee on budgets' proposal (which also includes, for example, support for the roma minority), even though the voting procedure with the so-called 'blocs' did not allow us to vote against everything in detail that we would have liked. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. - today i voted on the eu budget for 2015. it is important that the eu budget is used correctly and that politicians take responsibility for the eu's and member states' finances. in a time of high deficits and skyrocketing public debts in many member states, a majority of meps voted in favour of increased eu funding. it wanted more of the taxpayers' money to be spent on farm subsidies, regional aid and huge subsidy schemes to support ageing industries. i couldn't stand behind this. however, i supported the european parliament's call for more money for research, investment in transport, innovation and completion of the internal market, because that is what brings added value to both sweden and the eu.
in writing. - we voted today against the proposals to increase the eu budget further. it is of the utmost importance that not only the member states but also the european union act with rigor in all budgetary procedures. we are opposed to the majority in parliament demanding a substantial increase in the budget in virtually all areas, while the deficits of previous years remain. we have, however, voted for a budgetary line which means more money for research, innovation and the completion of the internal market, because this is crucial for growth and new jobs. in addition, it was important for us to support the eu's asylum and migration programmes to create safe pathways into the eu. but we cannot accept that more of the taxpayers' money is spent on agricultural subsidies and huge subsidy schemes to support ageing and climate-damaging industries.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. the left party and the gue/ngl opposed the original eu-republic of korea agreement, inter alia on the grounds of environmental and consumer interests. the principle of resistance remains. but as this vote is about a change of consequence, with croatia as a new member of the eu, i choose to abstain.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there's a lot of things that have been said and a lot of things that i can stand behind. i therefore want to bring up something that nobody has talked about before, and that is that we should not just talk about the kurds, but we actually have to talk to the kurds as well. nor should we make a distinction between the kurds who are good kurds, so to speak, and who are then in iraq, and those who are bad kurds in syria, because turkey does not have this fear of contact with everything to do with the pkk and the pud. we're not supposed to make that distinction, but we have to treat everyone equally. today, the priority is the emergency aid to kobane. it is not only humanitarian aid but also support for the kurds to be able to resist in kobane. but in the long run we must also look at what happens afterwards. we must also be a support in the construction of democracy, the secular, multicultural, democratic and autonomous region that is being tried to build in rojava, that is, in western kurdistan the kurdish part of syria.
mr president, there are many reports from various sources on the current situation in hong kong, but it is clear that the authorities are trying to manipulate and limit, in some cases even violently, the democratic process. this is unacceptable. by imposing a screening mechanism, the chinese government will disqualify candidates for the 2017 chief executive election who do not meet the government’s approval. this is some form of governance, but it is not democracy. the people’s republic of china is a global power with its all the means of a centralised powerful state. when students peacefully protest for democratic – and indeed human – rights anywhere in the world, they deserve to be backed up by us in the european union as a global power of democracy. if we do not speak up when fundamental democratic principles are manipulated, then we also send another type of message: we tell those students that democracy is important for us, and we are lucky that we can benefit from it inside the european union, but we do not really care if other people live in a democratic society or not. that is not the signal we want to send, and therefore we should call on the presidents of the council and commission, and the high representative, to raise these issues at the highest level with president xi jinping and also chief executive leung chun-ying. i am one of those who engaged in politics at a really young age, at 16 years old. i saw it as a democratic mission to actually be involved and engage other young people in the democratic process. what i see today when i look at hong kong is a big powerful regime trying to silence those who actually have the same dream as i had once when i started in politics 20 years ago. if we in this house are silent, we approve of the message from the chinese government, and that is why we have to protest and make sure that the demonstrators are actually seen and that we do not forget their deeds.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. the council of ministers has now announced that the purpose of mos maiorum is to identify irregular migrants, i.e. undocumented persons in the eu, and that it is in this way that it wants to get at the criminal networks involved in human smuggling, who are taking huge sums for a place in a packed, seaworthy boat crossing the mediterranean from north africa to europe. this sounds very sweet, and of course these criminal networks need to be stopped! but hunting down undocumented people is a completely wrong approach to the problem. the result is that it is the undocumented refugee, or migrant, who is looking for work, rather than the criminal networks that are getting hurt. simply because the criminal networks and the traffickers are located and operate in the middle east and north africa, and are therefore outside the field of operations and the reach of mos maiorum. for many people, as mr sippel has said, the only desperate way for people to get to europe is through the smugglers, because there are no legal ways. instead of resorting to massive expulsions of undocumented people, we must now do more to strengthen the legal ways of entering the eu, as labour migrants, students, researchers, or workers. we must also take our responsibility for asylum seriously. if you eliminate the business of human trafficking and instead create legal and safe routes, then we will succeed. but then we need to harmonize and simplify the rules so that we can welcome workers from outside europe in a dignified way. as regards mos maiorum, i call for democratic transparency and for us to be able to check that fundamental rights are respected. there's a lot to say, but this operation should be terminated.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. mos maiorum is a disgrace! to put resources into hunting down undocumented migrants when we are facing a refugee disaster and 3,000 people have died in the mediterranean one of the most dangerous escape routes to europe. smuggling networks and organised crime are much more effectively detected by other means. there is already a well-developed cooperation for this. the majority is a wrong priority, and it shows that we have a fundamental problem. the problem is racism, xenophobia and nationalism. we all know that the persecution of undocumented people is based on appearance and skin color in our public transportation, on trains, subways and trams. by doing so, we further reinforce racism and intolerance. we're creating a us and them. this is not acceptable. our voters want to live in a europe that stands up for human rights and offers protection to people who seek it. our electorate looks with admiration to italy's mare nostrum, the great effort that italy has itself initiated to save lives in the mediterranean. we also look with shame at the fact that no other member state is contributing as it should. i think the people of europe do not want a hunt for undocumented migrants. the people of europe want a mare nostrum plus, and now words are no longer enough. we must go from words to deeds. we need legal ways to get into europe. we will support italy's mare nostrum life-saving operation so that it does not close down this winter, and we will abolish the dublin regulation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to ask the council representative a question, if the president-in-office is not starting from the wrong end. because if it is true that the project, at least according to the swedish police, is not aimed at hunting down the undocumented, but at finding and fighting the people smugglers, then i wonder if we should not really talk about why the people smugglers exist. i'm convinced that they exist because we created them by closing our borders. our closed borders are the fertilizer for the industry that human trafficking really is. those affected are people who have been forced to leave their homes for various reasons. it may be because of war, oppression, poverty, conflict, or other causes. the vast majority of those who come here do so not because they want to, but because they have to. the only way to get rid of these people smugglers is to open the borders. we must have legal routes, both for those fleeing war and for those fleeing poverty. the mos maiorum is an unworthy way of tackling that problem.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr spinelli, you have done something very, very serious to the italian presidency. so if you have evidence that the italian government is giving instructions to use violence against migrants, use the legal channels to do so, because that would be very bad for democracy in italy. if you do not, please do not politicise the desperate plight of migrants who are undocumented in europe. thank you.
madam president, the aim of the joint police operation is to fight criminals, smugglers and traffickers. it is not to fight migrants. we are facing very sophisticated, natural organised crime that exploits migrants and brings them to europe under inhumane conditions. therefore, i support cross-border cooperation of our security forces to combat the slave trade of our time. why? because it operates across borders. we cannot on the one hand be outraged that people are dying in the mediterranean and on the other hand criticise europe when we start operations to fight the traffickers. of course border police need to check the borders, the external borders of the european union, and of course we need to interview the migrants too, because they might have relevant information to combat the perpetrators, to identify them – the roots, the methods, how they are paid. what is important for me is that these police operations are conducted in full respect of fundamental rights and in accordance with eu and international law. migrants should not be pushed back, in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement. they should be given the possibility of applying for asylum if they think they need international protection. children especially should be interviewed by someone trained in children’s rights, without a uniform and in a language that they can understand. police need to share information with each other, because otherwise they will not be able to be effective in combating international crimes. but they should fully respect data protection rules. any act of discrimination based on nationality or ethnicity is in violation of european values and laws and it should be treated as such by the member states. but we cannot put everything in the same box. this is not about migration policy. we have a dramatic humanitarian situation. we need to implement the asylum package, we need to have sharing of responsibility among the member states, we need to create more legal ways to the european union. but this goes hand in hand with combating organised crime. i also think, as my colleague mr kirkhope and others have said, that full transparency is necessary in this operation, and democratic control. i really do hope that the italian presidency will be able to tell us more. i welcome the fact that they have already announced that they will announce the results of this operation in december.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i just want to point out that this is not a new operation or a new project. it has been going on for several years under different presidencies. what's new is that this secret operation has been exposed. it could be interpreted as frontex moving its operations into cities and out into the countryside. how, then, can you identify what you are looking for? well, you walk up to people you suspect might be up to something weird. where does this lead? well, it leads to both mental and physical abuse of, in many cases, innocent people. what else is it leading to? yes, it leads to the rise of racism and xenophobia in the various states. i'm glad we've been made aware of this so we can act. i think it is shameful that the council does not consult parliament or the commission before carrying out such operations.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats voted in favour of not granting discharge to the european council and the council. the european council and the council have not met the requirements of transparency that can reasonably be expected. for parliament - and, by extension, for all eu citizens - it is crucial to have full transparency on how the money is spent. full transparency must be applied throughout the eu system.'
madam president, i would like to thank you. for me, this is not about legality and illegality, it's about politics and it's about trust. juncker has pursued a policy of inviting large companies to evade taxes, while pursuing a policy of austerity and privatisation. luxembourg's tax policy and cheating are right-wing politics at their worst. public funds that should have gone to our common welfare have disappeared. no one else has undermined the confidence in juncker, as has been suggested here. it is the policy he has pursued that is unacceptable. i've heard his arguments, but i'm not convinced. now juncker says he will harmonize fiscal policy. it is a bit like asking the wolf to watch the sheep, at least if you are a leftist and want a solidarity tax policy that exists to finance solidarity.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have followed the media reports with dismay recently, not least regarding swedish companies' help with tax planning in luxembourg. it is with equal consternation that we realise that for a long time it was mr juncker, in his role as both prime minister and finance minister of luxembourg, who was ultimately responsible for this fraudulent practice of all sorts of tax-technical solutions that was allowed to continue under his watch. and now we have mr juncker as the new president of the european union, with the ultimate responsibility for the best management of the eu contributions paid by 507.4 million citizens. and this is where it gets very tragicomic, because you get the feeling that you've put the fox in charge of the chickens. for the average hardworking person, it is like being spat in the face and mocked for working and contributing to the functions of society through his tax payments, while big business does its best to cheat and avoid the same regulations, often getting away with it. that's enough; the rules have to change.
madam president, i would like to thank you. effective tax systems are crucial to building functioning societies, we know that. the question of confidence today is whether the new commission will take the steps which we know are necessary, and also possible, to put an end to the unfair and often parasitic tax policies which individual countries unfortunately pursue. there is a change. we know that there is a way to increase transparency. we know that we can use competition law. in those matters, neither luxembourg nor the netherlands has a veto. the commission cannot therefore hide behind the requirement of unanimity in tax matters. but i also want to remind you that words are not enough. we have heard some positive words today, but on other issues the commission has not taken a position. but words are not enough. it's action that must be taken to release the trust issue before we can say anything else.
mr president, i would like to thank you. indeed, the sovereign right of the republic of cyprus to operate in its own exclusive economic zone has been seriously challenged by turkey, which has also flagrantly violated international law and all international law. this is a test of european solidarity. right here, right tonight, all of us in this parliament, we who are elected by the people, with one voice, must stand up and do this one thing: firstly, condemn the turkish occupation and activities and secondly, demand that turkey withdraw immediately. anything else is a threat to security, not just for the republic of cyprus but for our whole union - all of us eu citizens - and this is a perspective we must take into account.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is one of many next steps we will see in the future, and i must say that i am quite concerned about the cost to taxpayers that this will entail, not least from my own country which is one of the major net payers for the eu's ever more ambitious ambitions in its zeal to complete the building of the united states of europe. what is very worrying about this issue is that moldova has an alarmingly high level of corruption. it is ranked 102 out of 177 countries in terms of the level of corruption. the percentage ranking is only 27 percent, compared to, for example, sweden, which has a percentage ranking of 99 percent and is in third place in the ranking list. with more and more agreements being concluded by the eu, how can we ensure that large sums of money do not disappear into the pockets of the corrupt? how can we ensure that taxpayers' money is not wasted in a totally irresponsible way, as has happened so many times before? the whole purpose of the eastern partnership is simply to attract six former soviet republics to close economic and political relations with the eu, all to strengthen their border with russia.
in writing. - i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we regard as an expression of protectionism. we can perhaps accept the use of the fund as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, especially in view of the sense of hopelessness and exclusion that people feel in the wake of the crisis, and which risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, we believe that the worst crisis is now over and that the fund is therefore not justified in the not too distant future. to mark this, we chose to abstain in today's vote. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. - i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - i voted yes to the report. but i would like to say that i believe that the people of moldova should have the final say on this important issue. the best form of a popular decision on crucial issues is a referendum. the association agreement contains various policy measures which could have major implications for economic, environmental and social conditions in moldova. the country has complicated relations with russia, which are also affected by this agreement, because of the transnistrian issue. a comprehensive democratic debate on the advantages and disadvantages of the association agreement should be conducted in moldova before decisions are taken in the best democratic way.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has tabled an opinion. - mr. speaker, i have to go. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on gender equality, i cannot stress enough the importance of a clear and strong gender perspective in the global development framework after 2015. women's rights must be given much greater priority than they are today. we demand a specific gender equality objective and we also demand that the gender perspective be integrated into all parts of the global development framework. this is included in the report we are discussing and voting on tomorrow, and therefore i support it. i would like to highlight some of the investments that need to be made. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: and it requires, not least, a commitment to sexual and reproductive health and rights, including contraception, including abortion, something that some in this house want to deny women. this is unacceptable. it's 2014 and funding for family planning needs to increase, not decrease as it is today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i received answers to several of the questions i was going to ask in the commissioner's introduction. i therefore want to focus more on what is not regulated today and the work being done to update the regulatory framework. i want to make sure that, for example, monitoring equipment, which is not included today, will be included in the future. the sale of telecommunications systems is uncontroversial to some countries, but it can be a complete disaster to others. the same may be true of certain consultancy services. we must therefore introduce a system which looks not only at the product as such but also at the country of destination. is it a democracy, are human rights respected, is there a risk of conflict, internal or external? it can change very quickly, as we saw, for example, in the arab spring. we must also learn from the mistakes we made, where several eu countries actually sold both war material and surveillance equipment to north africa and the middle east. follow-up deliveries then continue. it is important that the eu lives up to its core values of human rights and democracy, even if this is sometimes not in the interests of industry. the safety of people must always come first in these cases, and i hope that the commissioner's proposal will go in that direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleased to note that your focus is on strengthening the quality of eu legislation. we share that passion. our citizens and our businesses have a right to expect laws that are effective and efficient. it should also be a top priority for all of us in this house, regardless of political party. the commission's impact assessments could play a much greater role. i am the chairman of the committee on petitions in this parliament. in this committee we can contribute lessons learned, because we see how legislation works and how it does not work and we can define the areas where citizens have the right to expect more. we receive thousands of applications that could help concretely in this work of evaluating and developing policy instruments and help with the impact assessment work as well. i hope you'll handle this with the highest priority and seriousness. i can promise you loyal allies in this parliament, at any rate especially in my committee.
the questioner. - madam speaker, please. when the european parliament adopted the 2020 strategy, there were very high hopes. the crisis would be stopped, the financial markets would be regulated, jobs would be created and welfare would be increased. since then, however, things have gone in the opposite direction. today, some 25 million people in the eu are out of work. some six million of them are young people, who are therefore starting their adult lives in unemployment. in the wake of the crisis, social security and other welfare systems have been eroded, inequality has increased. the 2020 strategy wanted us to go in the opposite direction, but since 2008, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased by 10 million, so that today there are over 122 million people in the eu who are at risk of poverty or already poor and vulnerable. in our discussions today, but also in the light of the commission's proposal for an investment package, it is therefore important to stress that we must not forget to invest in what can bring people out of unemployment and poverty. we are of course in favour of investments in infrastructure, research and sustainable climate, but we must also invest in education and in increasing the participation of women in the labour market. that means building a functioning childcare system that is universal and accessible to all. we must invest in the integration and inclusion of those who are furthest from the labour market and, of course, we must do everything to ensure that no young person has to start his or her life as a long-term unemployed person. youth unemployment has reached alarming levels today. it is now over 20%, more than one in five young people in the eu, and we did not think so when we decided on the 2020 strategy in this house. in some cases we see more jobs being created and more coming in, but unfortunately the increases in the employment rate have been partly the result of the increase in very precarious and frivolous forms of employment, i.e. zero-hour contracts, false self-employment and involuntary part-time work. what was supposed to be flexibility has become a buoy of insecurity and exploitation. the fragmentation and abuse of labour law rules mean that people have never really managed to get a foothold in the labour market in recent years. of the many who do have jobs, over 40 percent are on temporary contracts, and as many as 25 percent are part-time. i meet some of these young people who are basically chained to their cell phones, because what if someone calls and offers them a few hours of work? then they can't miss that call. i mean, increasing economic growth is not in itself a guarantee of more quality jobs, of reduced poverty or social inequality. achieving these objectives requires the right policy choices. we must make the internal market work for people, so that it serves the lives and the societies in which we want to live. the benefits of growth must be spread throughout society to be sustainable. otherwise we are sitting on a ticking time bomb of inequality and human frustration with all the consequences it implies for both individual lives and our democratic society as a whole. we can never compete with our world by having low wages, poor education, poor uncertain working conditions, slave contracts, exploitation, weak trade union rights. the only way we can compete is to be the absolute best at what we do. it requires a great deal of thought and activity in this chamber.
madam president, in march 2000, eu heads of state and government agreed on an ambitious goal: making the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world; the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-driven economy by 2010, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion – and where are we now? a huge crisis in the eu after this brilliant idea of the lisbon strategy. so what are we going to create now? of course, a new strategy! the eu is again promising a golden future, but after all these strategies we have the proof already: this house failed with these strategies, wasting money – wasting other people’s money, tax money. you do not even have the people in europe behind you. less than 43% voted in the last election. but as a socialist, of course, it is very easy to spend other people’s money.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the commission has emphasized in its arguments the link with the fourth railway package, which i myself oppose. the commission also stresses the need for further liberalisation of rail transport. for these reasons, i choose to abstain.
in writing. - today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting against these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. - i voted for this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. we believe that prosperity is created through free trade and fair competition. we therefore oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund on principle, which we consider to be an expression of protectionism. we can perhaps accept the use of the fund as a purely emergency measure in a time of deep economic crisis, especially in view of the sense of hopelessness and exclusion that people feel in the wake of the crisis, and which risks further reinforcing the wave of nationalism and xenophobia spreading in europe. however, we believe that the worst crisis is now over and that the fund is therefore not justified in the not too distant future. to mark this, we chose to abstain in today's vote. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of persons referred to in paragraph 1 by adding the following:
in writing. - today we voted on financial aid from the so-called globalisation fund to people who have become unemployed after european companies have closed down. i am consistently voting against these unemployment benefits for two reasons: first, labour market policies and financial support for the unemployed should be decided on, and financed, at national level not at eu level. secondly, the fund's basic idea is that globalisation is something negative - which is not true. globalization and free trade lead to growth and peace.
in writing. - i voted for this report today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - today we voted on a resolution on the europe 2020 strategy. i voted against the resolution as a whole because it partly involves an increased burden on the eu budget by requiring increased appropriations for various labour market policy measures. in addition, there are articles on the european youth guarantee, minimum wages and flexibility in the labour market. these instruments are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and contribute to greater control of member states' social and labour market policies. this is not a desirable development. the member states are responsible for deciding on social and labour market policy.
in writing. - we cannot support a resolution which calls for much of the same policies that led europe into the economic crisis from which it is now emerging. what europe needs is not more political governance and more public spending. the same policies have in recent years led to a weakening of france's competitiveness, rising unemployment and increasing deficits. there is no contradiction between jobs and growth. to create the conditions for jobs and growth, the eu must continue with ambitious structural reforms that make it easier to do business, stimulate research and development and make it profitable to work. labour market policy is a member state competence. the eu has an important role to play, not least through market reforms that facilitate free movement under social conditions and that contribute to trade and growth. labour market policy should not be managed from brussels. we cannot support the demands for a larger eu budget either. it is not eu contributions that create the conditions for jobs and growth in the member states, but increased investment in entrepreneurship and new jobs.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking all the women who have worked tirelessly before us to get this issue on the political agenda. i would like to thank in particular my predecessor, eva-britt svensson, former chair of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, for her work in this area. it is with their work behind us that we call for action today. commissioner jourova, several colleagues have raised statistics. it is a frightening reading, but above all, it is a number that shows a reality, an unacceptable reality. a reality where women are abused just because they are women and where women and girls are de facto lawless because the justice system does not prosecute the perpetrators. how can this continue? we have to ask ourselves. well, the answer is that we have a culture and a power structure that subordinates women to men. i agree that it's not something the pope has taken on. quite the contrary. a culture where women's bodies don't belong to us, where we're constantly subjected to sexist comments. slapping and threatening women and girls is a daily occurrence. everyone knows a girl who's been raped, but no one knows a rapist. when women take a public place, we are sexually harassed. it's a reality, but now there are no excuses. now we are demanding action and i am glad, commissioner jourova, to hear that you are going to take action, that you are going to legislate, because it is necessary, and that you are going to push for the eu to ratify the istanbul convention as well as the member states and that we have a european year against violence against women.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would remind commissioner jourova that this spring the european parliament asked the commission to present a legislative proposal before the end of 2014 setting out measures to promote and support member states' efforts to prevent violence against women and girls. we're running out of time. women and girls across europe are still subject to violence and it would be a shame if the commissioner did not take all possible action to combat and prevent this violence. the eu must ratify the istanbul convention and actively encourage member states to do the same. i would also encourage the commissioner to ensure that 2016 is established as the european year against violence against women and girls, to show that this violence is a widespread problem that affects everyone, and also to put forward a clear action plan to put an end to this violence. the new commission now has a golden opportunity to show that gender equality and ending violence against women are priorities. i hope and count on you to take your chance now. the women and girls of europe are counting on it.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the president. - the debate is closed. i've been listening very carefully and i think it's terribly important that we bring this up. i think it is great that so many people have spoken, but i have heard almost nothing about this issue of domestic violence, or about honour-related violence, which is becoming a bigger and bigger problem in the eu. we see it in sweden in particular, where we see one balcony girl after another falling out. so i think you should also take this up.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. everyone remembers the tragic images of the 366 white coffins after the disaster on lampedusa over a year ago. what we forget to say is that a lampedusa happens every day, because already this year more than 3 000 people have died in the mediterranean, compared with 600 last year. even though we said it would never happen again, it happens again and again. today the pope was here and he said that we must never allow the mediterranean to become a cemetery, a graveyard. in fact, that is what the mediterranean is becoming. we must now make sure that we put an end to this and put an end to the people smugglers, because it is true that people are entirely in the hands of the people smugglers. there's no way to get to europe legally. so our great political challenge now is to create safe and legal routes to europe. i am glad to have a commissioner with us today who has spoken about this - not just with his brain and words, but with his heart and conviction. i have high hopes that this political challenge will be resolved with the new commissioner in place. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am quite new to this parliament but i have heard this all along about legal channels. we already have legal ways into the eu. we have quota refugees. but i wonder, cecilia, what do you think of legal ways? are you going to force the member states to accept a certain number? what's the percentage? or what do you mean? and have you considered that we could help more people on the ground?
the answer ('blue card'). mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this was a wish question for me. today, only 14 eu countries participate in the resettlement programme. several of these countries take in less than 100 people a year. the eu as a whole has taken in 7 percent of all resettled people worldwide. most of them have been taken in by america. what i mean by legal and safe routes, yes, is that we are setting up temporary asylum offices in camps and at eu embassies. this is the only way to knock off the feet...
mr president, i would like to thank you. the mediterranean and the atlantic have been graveyards for many years already. the more we in the eu countries have closed our borders, the more people have died on the way here. we have not seen the big picture in migration policy. instead, the policy has been to stop people and send back those who have managed to get in. frontex, return agreements, carrier liability, etc. provide a very flourishing market for the smugglers. the only way i see to actually fight the smugglers is to create legal pathways for migration. the situation in our neighbourhood is terrible in many places and we must be prepared for many more to come here from war or poverty. i am therefore glad that the commissioner has also raised the issue of resettlement. i would like to see a resettlement system that is mandatory for all member states, so that everyone is involved and actually takes responsibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. why do people take overloaded leaky boats? is it because they are fleeing war and persecution? for these people, we already have legal ways into the eu. the unhcr has a quota system for refugees, and sweden is taking its share of the responsibility. is it because they want a better life? we already have some mobility agreements with north african countries. we have the blue card, we have the seasonal workers directive and the so-called mobile migration. is it because they're being conned? yeah, i'd say that's what it is. the eu has an unprecedented signals policy. we guarantee permanent residence, we look the other way on illegal labour, we tolerate human trafficking and exploitation. these people pay large sums to be smuggled from african countries to the eu. we do not want a situation where the smugglers know that frontex can act as a ferry line between the middle of the mediterranean and the eu.
writer. - mr. speaker, i have to go. yes, it is shocking when we need to see films of police shooting people with rubber bullets, leaving 15 people dead, and it is equally tragic to see people brutally beaten by spanish police. this is nothing less than the brutal overreach of a police force that takes the law into its own hands. this is contrary to international law and to eu law, the asylum law that we have worked so hard to put in place. all eu countries are, of course, bound by common legislation on the reception, processing and return of migrants who do not have grounds for asylum. we are also bound by the geneva convention and we are governed by the principle of non-refoulement. these 'hot returns', i.e. the immediate expulsion of migrants, are incompatible with eu law. not everyone has the right to asylum, but everyone has the right to a normal return to their country of origin. sending someone back without an individual trial is inconsistent with our laws. it is very worrying that spain is now discussing the adoption of legislation to allow these hot returns, because it would lead to collective expulsions incompatible with european and international law. the commission must act decisively here. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commission, and i hereby call on commissioner avramopoulos with all my heart to look at what actually happened on these occasions. i make the assessment unequivocally that eu law, as well as international law, has been violated. this cannot be tolerated.
the questioner. - mr. speaker, i have to go. in a europe in crisis, security and justice have become exceptions. this is also very much the case in the labour market. it's definitely about the work environments that have become harsher and more dangerous. strong common rules on working conditions are a win-win for all of us. not just for those who work, not just for all citizens, but also for businesses. according to an international study, companies that invest €10 in preventive health and safety work can expect a return of more than double that amount. having strong common rules for a good working environment also means ensuring a level playing field. in order not to distort competition in the internal market, a common minimum standard is required. this, of course, must not prevent member states and companies from maintaining and demanding a higher standard. simplification of rules and reduction of bureaucracy must never be allowed to come at the expense of human life and health. proposals to exempt smes from health and safety requirements are not helping anyone, either the company or the worker. quite the opposite. large companies have the resources to cope with an accident or a long-term sick leave. in a smaller company, the margins are smaller, in a smaller company, it's the opposite: each individual employee means a great deal to you, and often you may have no insurance or staff to deal with if something happens. this is why osh issues are so important even in very small companies. everyone should have the right to the same good working environment, regardless of the company in which they work. that's my own conclusion. the proposals that have been tabled in this parliament have had a different starting point. they would exempt over 90% of all eu employees from complying with osh rules. such a proposal is, of course, totally unacceptable to many - i would say with certainty to a majority of members of this house. if these proposals are repeated in the next term of office, they will face very strong opposition. that is why it is so important that we address this issue at the beginning of this mandate. the solution is not to undermine the rules, but to make it easier for companies and individuals to comply with them. this requires an eu offensive programme. support systems are needed, new risk management tools for small businesses to facilitate osh work and strengthened trade union training that can make aware workers even better at handling difficult work environments and also contribute to real simplification real simplification, without worsening the working environment. the eu therefore urgently needs a new, aggressive osh strategy covering everything from workplace accidents to cancer risks and psychosocial injuries and stress. it's about thinking long term. that's radical thinking, you know? it's human to think. it is being a good union for working life and competition rules that allow us to remain strong producers of goods and services which we can then sell or use ourselves.
the questioner. - mr. speaker, i have to go. the treaty of rome itself established equal treatment as a crucial principle of european cooperation. this equal treatment protection has subsequently been extended and deepened. the court of justice of the european union has also acted as a defender of citizens' rights, while adopting several directives to promote equal treatment. unfortunately, however, the work on this is not over. it goes on. it must continue to combat all direct or indirect discrimination on grounds of nationality, sex, origin, religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. it's a central task. all member states have now also transposed the directives. however, the commission considers that there are a number of areas of concern. these are obstacles to access to justice, inadequate sanctions, lack of awareness of the rights of citizens under eu law, underreporting, lack of data and so on. so many are unaware of their rights. here, we all have a responsibility, but especially the commission, to disseminate information, simply, on what one can and should do as a citizen if he has been subject to discrimination. a key area of discrimination concerns the labour market. all workers in europe have the right to protection against discrimination. that is also why i have put this oral question for discussion here today. we want to see this resolved and strengthened during the mandate ahead of us. that is also why today we have brought up the problems of under-reporting, which must be addressed, and lack of access to justice. we must also strengthen our prevention work. we must combat prejudices and underlying structures that lead to discrimination and which in turn can ultimately manifest in lost life chances or even physical violence. i mean, what can we do to ensure that what was already written down in the treaty of rome becomes a reality for more of those living in europe today?
mr president, i would like to thank you. in some ways, it feels as if during the financial crisis, europe has lost faith in what we actually have to do. it's as if you think we can hide the future costs of climate change. it's like you think there's no cost to not taking climate action. we know that the costs we pay in life today - people dying prematurely from pollution - are costs that companies are not paying because they are putting it on society. instead, it's our hospitals and our communities that are paying these costs. we know, however, that it will cost us an incredible amount the day that land values are destroyed by rising sea levels. we know that it will cost a lot in refugee flows and in human suffering the day we are driven from our coastal areas because we have to move further inland. europe has every opportunity to be a driving force in this. the united states and china are finally presenting concrete figures. but they're also way too low. i can see from the list of speakers here that one after another will soon be saying that it is not possible to combat the climate problem without driving companies out of europe. this is not true. we can see from a swedish perspective that for 20 years we have had growing growth while we have had decreasing climate emissions. but to do this, we must dare to believe in the future, in technology, in progress, and set clear targets under paris. but there's a big step that needs to be taken right now if we're going to get anywhere.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i wish that those who are most affected by climate change also had the biggest megaphones and the best opportunities to influence policy. i'm afraid it doesn't look like it. many times, those who are most vulnerable are also those who lack power. it puts a great responsibility on us politicians. i and my group will defend the european parliament's position of having three ambitious and binding targets for renewable energy, reducing climate emissions and energy efficiency. the epp group in parliament wants to delete these objectives. i think that's serious. it is a weak policy for europe's environment, for the world and for jobs, which does not take responsibility for the most vulnerable in the world. the lima meeting is important for the climate. we cannot allow paris to become another copenhagen. the recent initiatives of the united states and china are important. it is time for the eu to take the lead.
in writing. - the eu has an important role to play as a driving force in the un climate negotiations. the eu accounts for only 10% of global emissions, and to tackle climate change we need to get the rest of the world to take its share of the responsibility. we have called for an ambitious, realistic and cost-effective eu climate policy. it is necessary to convince other countries to follow our example. the social democrats and the green party have pursued a climate policy of appeal without any anchoring in european economic reality, which no country has supported. if the demands were pushed through the european council, there would be a risk of a collapse of the negotiations without any european objectives at all. but the new swedish government abandoned not only its own proposals but also our ambitious and realistic line of complementing the european commission's proposed tripling of the rate of emission reductions with commitments in other countries equivalent to an additional 10 per cent. in doing so, the new swedish government undermined the possibility of pushing for a more ambitious european climate policy. the social democrats and the environment party then pushed sweden, together with the sweden democrats, to support climate targets that were less ambitious than what we demanded. we deplore this, as it weakens the eu's voice in international negotiations and reduces the possibility of agreeing on an ambitious global climate agreement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a swede, i am proud that my government has recognized the state of palestine. but sweden is certainly not first, just one link in a long chain, and that chain must become longer and stronger. with the eu's recognition of the state of palestine, we are also opening the window of opportunity that is suddenly there before our eyes. recognition would help israel and palestine to live side by side in peaceful coexistence. a peace agreement and a two-state solution would be facilitated if the parties to these negotiations were less unequal. the international law criteria for the recognition of the state of palestine are met. the international community has determined that palestine is a state. failure to recognise palestine on the basis of the israeli occupation would be contrary to the principle of international law that no right should be taken from any wrong. in 2009, eu member states confirmed their readiness to recognise the state of palestine when appropriate. the question is: when is it appropriate? yesterday or today or very soon? in view of the very difficult situation in the region and the high level of conflict, and in the light of the analysis of international law, there is no need for undue delay. we should make a decision on recognition. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
(blue card) mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to ask marita ulvskog in the light of the fact that we often speak here in parliament and in government institutions about the importance of a strong common european foreign policy. in view of the fact that we say that only by acting together can we influence foreign policy globally, i would like to ask marita ulvskog - also in view of the fact that swedish social democrats have on several occasions said they support this objective - the question is therefore: how does this correspond with the present action? the unilateral action to make europe speak with one voice.
(blue card) mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am grateful that the president is instructing mr adaktusson on how to proceed. my answer to mr adaktusson is that it is, of course, up to each country, each member state, to decide on recognition. but such a strong signal that we would make from this parliament on this issue - to show that we are united - would be of very great importance for palestine, for israel and for the high representative, who has made an excellent impression here on where she stands and how she will deal with this issue going forward. i have every confidence in the high representative.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am also proud that sweden has recognised palestine and that it has given rings to the waters. that was our idea. i am convinced that we can only move forward in the peace process if there is the possibility of reaching a two-state solution before it is too late. with strong pressure on the israeli government. the widespread recognition of many eu states is such a pressure. but israel is not just its government. there is an israeli opposition which also asks us to recognize palestine. the peace movement, of course, but also former israeli ambassadors, heads of the judiciary, scientists, directors-general, etc. we should listen to them too. and for those who have not yet decided whether they want us to vote for recognition or not, i would urge you to actually go to palestine and israel. to visit hebron with the organization breaking the silence, which is israeli soldiers telling the truth. it's an experience you won't forget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the swedish government's decision to recognise a palestinian state is now being voted on, there is reason to react. the unconditional recognition is a signal that negotiating results can be achieved in the israeli-palestinian conflict without talks between the parties. this is contrary to the eu's fundamental view to date that bilateral negotiations are the only way to lasting peace and an independent palestinian state. there are also serious obstacles to recognition under international law. today, there is no de facto palestinian state. the criteria for recognition under the international montevideo convention are therefore not met. the conditions for recognition are that a new state controls its own territory and has resolved any border disputes. that is not the situation today. recognition of a state is not a gesture or a political endorsement in general. it is a statement of fact under international law. we must therefore reject in this parliament the populism and irresponsibility of the swedish government. in the name of decency, we as a parliament cannot ignore the fact that the palestinian territories are largely controlled by hamas. hamas's goal is to destroy the state of israel. the eu has designated hamas as a terrorist organisation. the serious situation in the middle east at the moment requires political responsibility and a european union acting together. what is at stake is a peaceful development based on a negotiated settlement between the parties and on the fundamental values of international law and democracy. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
(blue card) mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. international law is unequivocal as regards the requirements for recognition and the fact is that - wherever we are on this issue - the criteria for recognition are not met. i think that is one of the main objections to palestinian recognition at the moment. that doesn't mean we won't recognize palestine when that time comes. but that time will come after there is a negotiated agreement between the two parties.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a two-state solution is essential to achieving peace and stability in the middle east. but a two-state solution must be based on two states that recognize each other's right to exist, that can recognize each other's right to sacred borders, and that can contribute to the rule of law and respect for human freedoms and rights. if these requirements are not met, there is a risk that unilateral recognition, without the requirement of the ability to control one's territory against terrorism, without the requirement of respect for human rights and freedoms, will open the door to terrorism. the two-state solution must never mean accepting terrorism, disregarding human rights and freedoms, and disregarding the role of women in the society in which we live. let us be clear that in the middle east we are talking about today we are seeing a development of terrorism and violence and hatred on a scale we have not seen before and that goes far beyond the conflicts between israelis and palestinians. to accept that terrorism is being carried out by a part of a state, to abandon the requirement that a state should be able to function as a state, undermines the possibility of achieving a two-state solution that contributes to peace and democracy. we all know that israel is under constant threat from terror, war and violence, anti-semitism of the worst kind. not just from their closest neighbors, but from a wide range of movements. a two-state solution must mean that we create security and respect for all people, for israelis and for palestinians. that is why there must be demands. we must never recognize terrorism. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – i can certainly tell my colleague that an occupation must end by having achieved peace and the recognition of peaceful cohabitation. but if you accept movements like hamas, hezbollah and the even worse extremes, i can assure you that they are not fighting for independent, democratic sovereign states. they are fighting for a society where people’s rights are humiliated. i do not want to have a palestinian state that is in control of those who are today leading gaza. i want a palestinian state that can fulfil democratic obligations, that respects each and everyone. that is what it is our duty to secure and that requires a long-term process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the convention on the rights of the child is one of the most important human rights documents in existence. today we have spoken a lot about the external dimension - what the eu can do for children's rights outside the eu - but the eu can never credibly put pressure on countries outside the union if we do not ourselves treat all children in our territory in accordance with the convention on the rights of the child. breaches of the convention occur daily in the eu member states. this is true of everything from refugee children who are locked up and denied the right to school and care, to various forms of physical violence such as child abuse, which is still permitted in a number of eu member states. in 2011, the commission adopted a communication on an eu agenda for the rights of the child. now is the time to take the next step: adopting a full-fledged children's rights strategy and accompanying action plan. it should cover all the eu's activities both within and outside the union. the well-being of children and young people shall be taken into account in all measures affecting them. this will also require coordination and resources. as the child is often forgotten when future issues are being considered, we social democrats proposed a commissioner with special responsibility for children's rights for the new term of office. but to no avail. this is an opportunity for the commission to reconsider its position. in addition, during the last term of office i asked the commission whether it planned to ratify the convention on the rights of the child on the part of the eu. that the eu would unilaterally commit itself to the convention. unfortunately, the response i received was subpar in the face of all the criticism. i hope the commission will resolve this.
madam president, in order to release all the jobs that we want to get from the new digital sector, in order to release all the inventions that might be possible from the new digital sector, we need to tear down barriers between 28 countries and consolidate one common legislation at european level. this is actually the big problem on the internet – not what one company is doing today or what it did yesterday. my big problem with this resolution is that a few parties think that they can fix the internet better than the internet is actually working by itself. because it is freedom that has provided us with the internet we have today; and it is freedom that is the nourishment of the internet. if we try to think that we can regulate – if there is an american-founded google, we should create one ourselves; if there is an american-founded facebook, we should found one ourselves; if there are cloud services in america, we should have them for ourselves – then we do not understand what the internet is. it does not care about any national boundaries whatsoever, nor does it care that there are national boundaries keeping development down, keeping the innovations down, keeping economy down and keeping jobs away. we have a great possibility here in this house, working with commissioner ansip, and also working with commissioner vestager when it comes to competition measures. because we are not the ones who can decide; we are not the body that is actually making the judgement. we are the body that puts the legislation forward and we do not make the judgements on different companies. just a few years ago we thought yahoo would prevail forever; we thought that was the system we would use for many years. today the market is totally different – a big shift in just a few years. i believe, colleagues, that if one of you invented a browser that was better than the ones we are using today, just in a few months the customers would change: the users would change and go to the best one, because we are also acting on a market and we do not pay for using the browsers. we do not pay for it, which makes the consumers and users very easy to transform. we can take example after example: a few years ago everyone had a hotmail e-mail address and then this was changed for a gmail one, and so on. this will keep changing the market. what the drafters of the resolution are saying is that they actually know better than the internet how it should be run and that they want the internet we have today to prevail. what we have to do is to create the internet of tomorrow, not copying the solutions that are already there but actually creating new solutions for the future.
blue-card question. – i actually agree with what you say on technical innovation – but do you? the epp group actually surprises me a bit on this resolution, because i think there is far too much market regulation and intervention. i usually understand when the s&d goes in that direction, but not when the epp goes that way. so, do you actually think that your regulation proposed on the table here is more important than working for net neutrality, where my colleague ms schaake today sent a letter with 131 signatures to the commission defending net neutrality?
mr president, i would like to thank you. a digital age needs a digital single market, but it is unfortunate that today we are dealing with this resolution instead of dealing with the actual issues that belong to itre and the juri committee, that is to say the legal affairs committee. some of the ideas put forward by the major parties here are quite populist, such as politically breaking down some of the major search engines on the internet into their constituent parts. it's pretty headless, actually. everyone understands that this is google. it is deeply inappropriate to engage in political finger-pointing in the commission's work on an ongoing competition case which is taking place in real time. i am grateful that we have a commissioner like mr ansip who knows what the digital single market really means and who knows what liberal ideas stand for in these contexts. in the area of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, the resolution has not caused as much confusion, which i am glad to see. we will continue to modernise european copyright, but we will also create a common copyright law and ensure that licensing is done properly. it is important that we build on the work done in the previous term, for example with the report on collective rights management and on-line music licensing for music. i think we should be putting more time and energy into this kind of concrete work instead of this kind of rather pointless debate in the plenary.
mr president, the digital single market can, if we do the right things, transform the european economy from being the world’s biggest economy to being the world’s biggest and most dynamic market, but that requires that we understand the freedom of the internal market and the reforms we need to make, but also the freedom of the internet, and that we are able to take decisive decisions that we more or less all know what it is about. first of all, we must refresh our targets for capacities and speeds. we cannot have outdated charges for speeds and capacities that belong to the past. we need to talk about gigabytes much more than megabytes in the future. we need to open up the 700 mhz band in order to ensure that we in europe can have the best preconditions for the new services. we need to ensure that we can develop pan-european network services with a high level of competition that can provide us with a single telecoms market without any roaming – not only without the cost but without the roaming as such. we need to ensure that we can have a vat system that is supportive of digital services. we need to ensure that we have freedom for users but also freedom for new service providers. we should not lack any of those, and the debate about net neutrality must in this sense support the emergence of new services. we need to ensure that we have competition at all levels and understand that if we do the right things, we will not need to regulate all the googles but can be the home base for the new googles, yahoos, blackberries and all the other apples that we can have, and also the ericssons, the nokias and the siemens. that must be our target.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when it comes down to it, nobody in this house is in favour of the eu, because when it comes down to it, everyone is acting in the best way to protect their own country and their own economy. look at france and germany, for example, with their huge car industries in peugeot, renault and volkswagen - they don't care much about eu laws, it's about protecting their own industry and economy. they're 100 percent backing their own industry and their own countries. i fully understand them, because if you are to compete with the big international companies, you have to take much better care of your own country's economy. companies in countries such as england, the netherlands and finland have been forced to close factories because of eu legislation. the commission has been forced to pay an unreasonable share of energy costs to finance renewable energy. i do not think that is fair. i'm not against renewable energy, but it has to be done in a fair way. the consequence of this is that production is preferred to other countries with a different cost structure. as a result, many workers lose their jobs. since 2007, 60,000 workers in the eu have lost their jobs to unfair competition. what will that number look like in the future if we continue like this? the protection of workers is not really a problem in this matter, but the fact that we have to protect workers is a consequence of the eu legislation in this house. it is quite clear to me that sweden and finland too, with their very important steel industry, must follow the example of france and germany with their car industry. the mining and steel industries have a long and traditional history in sweden. between 90 and 95 per cent of all steel production is exported and europe remains sweden's largest export market. the steel industry is very important for me, for us and for my own country to support in order to maintain employment and welfare in my own country, sweden.
mr president, i would like to thank you. pakistan is one of the most dangerous countries in the world for christians. for decades, the country's blasphemy laws have had devastating consequences for various religious minorities. one charge of blasphemy is enough to convict, to end a life. what happened in east pakistan on 7 november is a grim example of just that. a baseless accusation against the christian couple shama bibi and shahzad masih led to their being beaten by a giant mob before being burned to death. before we consider this resolution, the representatives of pakistan have assured me and other members that pakistan respects the rights of all its citizens. many of us doubt that assurance. therefore, the serious appeal to the pakistani authorities is: abolish the blasphemy laws. respect religious freedom. the abomination of november 7th must not be repeated.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the role of jean claude juncker in luxleaks is not primarily about whether or not luxembourg's systematic system of tax evasion is illegal. the big question is whether one of the people ultimately responsible for this type of policy should be trusted to hold one of the most powerful political posts in the eu. i don't think that's what it is. the gue/ngl took the initiative of the first no-confidence motion against juncker. it was based on a political criticism of austerity policies, forced privatisations and tax evasion policies for large companies. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. the democratic parties also gave the walk over to the far right, which took advantage of the situation and put forward its own motion of censure. the absence of political accountability, and the crushing of the political landscape, gives right-wing populism a breeding ground. the declaration of no confidence by the far right is based on a completely different premise. they do not call for a change of policy on tax evasion or on other fundamental points of the liberal market strategy. moreover, their basic views on human rights are appalling. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
in writing. - i've turned my voice down. i certainly support the wording on, among other things, net neutrality and the proposals for action against google. but on the other hand, i am critical of the weak writings on computer security issues. nor is there any mention of safety and health issues. that's why i choose to keep my voice down.
madam president, i might still be young and i might still be rather naive, but i do hope for a better tomorrow. that is why it hurts me so badly when we can see that the progress made by the commission over the last four years has really been deteriorating. the proposals that we have on the table now are worse than they were three or four years ago, and the commission is taking away the incentives for those who are not doing so well to do better. that is perhaps one of the hardest things to actually accept here, because we must believe that there is a possibility to do good. we are not prohibiting different kinds of fuels; but what we are saying in this house is that we need to have different regulations motivating those who are not doing well to actually do better. i am afraid that it is a sign of the new commission. what we will probably hear tomorrow is that several items of great importance for the environment will be withdrawn. i do hope, mr commissioner, that i am wrong and that you will prove me wrong by doing better for the environment and for the future.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are widespread problems in the transport sector in europe today. we see cases every day where the rules of the internal market are being flouted by unscrupulous operators in order to compete on unfair terms. when that happens, it is the drivers and the serious businesses that are negatively affected. and we know that competition in the internal market must be on equal terms, that it must benefit both employers and workers and all the member states. because it is precisely when we fail to do this that we create a breeding ground for populist and nationalist parties and movements that want nothing more than to find excuses to break off cooperation and back into the future. in my country, the cheating of cabotage rules and other labour legislation is unfortunately too widespread. it is time for the european commission to stop turning a blind eye to the problems people in the transport sector are experiencing. if people and businesses feel that they do not benefit from being part of the single market but rather that it threatens their wages and job security or the survival of their businesses, then you need to know that those who have the power to change are also prepared to do something. if the answer is, "no, we don't see a problem" and "no, we're not going to do anything about it", then trust is quickly eroded. illegal cabotage is a serious threat to the eu and the very idea of free movement. it is logical and necessary to include these crimes in the list of serious offences to show that we take the problems seriously. when drivers are used to work in slave-like conditions, this obviously leads to a lower road safety, an increased risk of serious injury and death. if the eu were to choose to say 'no, illegal cabotage and social dumping is not that serious', i can guarantee that many people across europe would be extremely disappointed, because this is precisely what many people feel are the absolute biggest problems today. come back with a better offer.
madam president, i would like to thank you. unlike the vast majority of you in this room, i've spent most of my professional life in a truck cab. as late as march of this year, i parked the car after 30 years on the road. i have seen the problems that have arisen and i would say that the very biggest problems they have come from this house. when they introduced the cabotage legislation, that's when the cheating really started. because what is happening today is that unfortunately many of the big freight forwarders in europe - and we are talking about german schenker, german dhl, danish dsv - are using this cabotage legislation to carry out illegal domestic traffic. the third transport you are allowed to take in a seven-day period, you drive to it, from my country, sweden, to the neighboring country denmark and from denmark you drive to sweden, and then the car is back. we have over 2000 cars involved in illegal domestic traffic in sweden; this is proven by an investigation. it is not possible to say that this can be dealt with at national level, because it is under the umbrella of the eu that this is allowed to happen. it is eu law that makes this possible. you have to be strong here. the eu legislation is destroying the whole serious agricultural industry, because nobody wants to pay for what is needed for transport, because it is the last stage of a product and it should be as cheap as possible. it's at the expense of the drivers, and they're being used like slaves.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for a very good introduction. there are two points that must be highlighted. first of all, the road to undermined social security, increased unemployment, lost competitiveness as well as social unrest goes via spending money you do not have. if deficits were the solution, and if deficits could stimulate economic growth and employment, we would not have the crisis we are facing today. it is not consolidated budget policies that have caused the problems. the cause of the problems is the belief that you can solve economic problems by increased deficits and increased debt burdens. that is false, but that is exactly what we have seen. secondly, there is the review of the stability pacts. it might be good to do this, but even better would be to do a real review in those cases where the commission is dealing with deficit countries which have postponed their structural efforts and are not living up to the rules. credibility is about being credible. the european union must be credible; the commission must be credible; the stability pact must be credible. if we undermine their credibility by letting the big member states run away, not only from their commitments, but also from their rules and responsibilities, it will cost us all credibility. it will not help solve any problems, but it will create even more and make the crisis even deeper. be credible and sick to the rules. (the speaker agreed to take 2 blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – ms matias, i must say that the threat to the welfare state comes from policies which you are now defending – the belief that you can spend money you do not have – because that brings you to the real, draconian austerity that we have seen in a number of member states. it has led to a lack of investment in industry, in enterprises, and a lack of jobs. see the reality, look around you. where have we succeeded and where have we failed? we must see to it that we can be credible all over the european union.
blue-card answer. – mr gollnisch, look around in the world: where you see free trade, you see prosperity. where you see protectionists of your kind, you see lack of prosperity. there is nowhere in the world where you have managed to develop economies and societies – a civilisation – without openness. look at the member states of the european union. those who have dealt with the crisis are the free traders. i will not ask you to join these forces, because i know that you belong to some other … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is important that we are very careful in our analysis of the six-pack and two-pack how they have worked so far. it is difficult to make a correct assessment after such a short period of time and in a situation where the new regulatory framework has been used in principle only in crisis situations. i think that it is a good set of rules and that it should be kept as it is for the time being. as far as the rules as such are concerned, it is not appropriate to make any changes at present. however, it is most reasonable to look at how the regulatory framework is actually used. there's room for improvement. the regulatory framework is both flexible and intelligent. the problem is that it has not been used in any flexible or intelligent way. the implementation has been too much characterized by simplicity and ideological blind spots. these shortcomings have in many respects had a negative impact on economic development. all the possibilities offered by the rules must now be used seriously. it is possible to create workable plans for the restructuring of deficits and debts. it is possible to create space for incentives and investment in countries that need it. it's not the regulations that are wrong. it's the application.
in writing. ‒ while i agree that the cites and the protection of endangered species are a worthwhile cause, i voted against this recommendation since i believe it seeks to promote the european commission and its policies. sweden ratified the cites in 1975 and has been an active member ever since. i see no reason why the eu should be involved as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with ukraine, as a consequence of my support for the eu-ukraine association agreement on 16 september. in a statement of vote at the time, however, i underlined several problems created by the fact that the association agreement was voted through the so-called urgency procedure, which partly undermined the democratic process.
in writing. ‒ ukraine has been identified as one of 11 key strategic partners and the only country in eastern europe to join the eu scientific and innovation programme horizon 2020. in the past ukraine actively participated in the predecessor of the horizon 2020 programme, the eu’s 7th framework programme on research, which took place in 2007-2013 and covered 309 projects of eastern countries costing eur 45 million. ukraine captured eur 26.5 million of those funds. i do not wish to give consent to this agreement.
in writing. - i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - i voted for these reports today. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the widespread unemployment in the eu could be effectively combated if the austerity policies pursued for a long time by the european commission and the governments of the member states were stopped. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to start by perhaps saying congratulations or why not bingo to herman van rompuy: €730 000 in pension money over the next three years; a direct insult to every taxpayer in the member states. in this era of unemployment that is only escalating to ever worse levels, herman van rompuy is winning the jackpot, again with taxpayers' money. now jean-claude juncker wants to focus on rebuilding the trust and confidence of the european people, and i would like to ask. how can i do that? by making them pay even more taxes to allow ousted eu politicians to get horrible retirement benefits so they can continue their luxury lives at the taxpayers' expense? another priority of jean-claude juncker's work programme for 2015 is a new policy on migration. is it not true that it is a matter for the individual member states to decide, and not for the eu, or are you today planning to force on the member states an immigration that cannot be handled? there are not enough jobs for the people of the eu member states today. the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations on the subject. there is no housing or work for those already in the eu countries, and as usual it will be the ordinary worker who will have to pay for the never-ending stream of failed proposals coming from this house. i don't even think it's possible to re-establish trust and confidence. less than 43% of those eligible to vote took part in the last european elections, so i would say that the people have already lost all confidence in this institution. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to the commission's management for being here to share your vision for the commission's work in 2015. it's good, but it could have been better. in particular, i welcome the priorities for regular migration, which aim to make the eu more attractive to workers, students, researchers and investors. all of this is needed to see economic growth, jobs and success in a globalised world. but the program should have included legal and safe routes for people fleeing war and persecution. only by making it possible for people to get here safely can we stop the grotesque advance of the smugglers. we must ensure that the mediterranean does not become the mass cemetery we see today, with almost 4000 people losing their lives there this year alone. i am also very pleased to see that we are now getting a digital single market in place, and i argue that we need to see that the commission - i wish to congratulate the commission - is courageous and does not give way to the conservative forces that do not dare to innovate.
mr president, i put my trust in mr juncker in the election of this house and i put my trust in the commission. but that trust was breached when i heard that the air quality package, the waste package and the circular economy would be withdrawn. however i got a new sense of hope when mr timmermans told us that it will be rewritten and reintroduced in some way. but patience is running thin and before we have a timetable on these issues we will start digging a hole of distrust between this house and the commission. so these are really urgent issues. i put my trust in you because i think that you have the ability to actually change europe towards more prosperity and a greener europe. but i do hope that the aim of the commission is not to strive for a black belt in abolishing environmental policies. (applause)
madam president, i would like to thank you. jean-claude juncker needs more money, he says. i'm not surprised. the responsibility for taxpayers' money is virtually nonexistent in this house. bonuses and severance pay have assumed hair-raising levels. the disdain for the eu is only growing among ordinary people, and this is reflected in the turnout: less than 43% chose to vote in the last european elections. a shining example is herman van rompuy, who leaves office with €730,000 in severance pay. this is only for the first three years, because more money is coming. the so-called transitional allowance assumes no consideration whatsoever and all the money will be paid out with a reduced eu tax that is significantly lower than the tax in his home country of belgium. the compensation paid to members of the commission after their service is absolutely insane. compare that compensation with what a typical worker and taxpayer in europe receives after leaving the service ordinary people who have been loyal to their bosses and workplaces for many years. what bonus do these get? well, that bonus is paying, paying, and paying again for your jackpot bonuses you're taking home. and now jean-claude juncker is talking about restoring the trust and confidence of ordinary people! the way this house handles taxpayer money, i would argue that this is mission impossible. as long as you do not show respect for the people who actually are the cause of your mere existence in this boasting edifice of a house, you should not expect any trust or confidence from the common people.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have some questions about the commission's investment plan. it contains a lot of air and is likely to have a worse outcome than the calculations indicate. at the same time, however, i am clearly positive about the overall signal that the initiative is sending out: that europe needs more investment. it is high time that this issue was placed at the top of the agenda. after a 15% fall in investment since 2007, investment levels must now be raised substantially, otherwise productivity, competitiveness and an effective green transition will be impossible. it is important not to see the investment plan as a panacea but rather as a factor in a broader investment effort which must now be made. the plan may be part of the solution, but it's not the whole solution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. this is in line with my vote in favour of the eu-moldova association agreement on 13 november this year. but i would like to stress again that the people of moldova should have had the final say on this important issue. the best form of a popular decision on crucial issues would have been a referendum, in which the economic and social consequences of the agreement could have been discussed in depth, as well as the consequences for relations with russia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on maintaining the trade rules applicable under gsp+ until the entry into force of the new eu-ecuador ftas. but i would like to stress that i am very critical of the fta concluded with ecuador, as well as with ecuador's neighbours. in principle, ecuador had no choice but to conclude its own agreement with the eu, as it was placed in an unfair trade situation compared to its neighbours. eu trade agreements do not create fair trade and their effects run counter to the eu's fundamental principles of aid and development, and in many cases environmental considerations. my 'yes' vote should be seen in this critical context, and not as support for eu trade policy.
in writing. i voted against the budget. i believe that the eu budget must be cut considerably. in addition, there are major problems in the area of the costly agricultural policy and the regional and structural funds. resources are also going to the militarisation of the eu and the fortress europe, which i cannot support. i would also like to emphasize the criticism of principle against the whole budgetary process, which is characterized by its closure. the summits and all negotiations are conducted without transparency, which confirms the undemocratic nature of the eu.
in writing. i voted against the budget. i believe that the eu budget must be cut considerably. in addition, there are major problems in the area of the costly agricultural policy and the regional and structural funds. resources are also going to the militarisation of the eu and the fortress europe, which i cannot support. i would also like to emphasize the criticism of principle against the whole budgetary process, which is characterized by its closure. the summits and all negotiations are conducted without transparency, which confirms the undemocratic nature of the eu.
in writing. - we have supported the agreement reached between the council of ministers and the european parliament on a package of measures for the 2015 budget and the 2014 supplementary budgets. this is because the agreed budget is sufficient to resolve the emergency situation of unpaid bills resulting from the unwillingness of the member states to live up to their own commitments. in addition, the agreement will mean increased investment in what we believe europe and the world need, such as investment in growth and job creation measures and humanitarian aid. we have, however, voted against the further increases in the budget which are not covered by the agreement.
in writing. we have supported the agreement reached between the council of ministers and the european parliament on a package of measures for the 2015 budget and the 2014 supplementary budgets. this is because the agreed budget is sufficient to resolve the emergency situation of unpaid bills resulting from the unwillingness of the member states to live up to their own commitments. in addition, the agreement will mean increased investment in what we believe europe and the world need, such as investment in growth and job creation measures and humanitarian aid. we have, however, voted against the further increases in the budget which are not covered by the agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. - transport policy is of great importance for the eu's internal market. to achieve fair competition, rules on driving and working hours, tachographs, maximum weights, training requirements, etc. must be common and applied equally strictly throughout the eu. we have therefore welcomed the european commission's proposal for a list of serious infringements which would lead to the loss of the good repute of a carrier. however, demands to take account of social legislation, in which the origin of the driver is paramount, are nothing but disguised discrimination and nationalism. for this reason we voted against the resolution and the amendments to it.
transport policy is of great importance for the eu's internal market. to achieve fair competition, rules on driving and working hours, tachographs, maximum weights, training requirements, etc. must be common and applied equally strictly throughout the eu. we have therefore welcomed the european commission's proposal for a list of serious infringements which would lead to the loss of the good repute of a carrier. however, demands to take account of social legislation, in which the origin of the driver is paramount, are nothing but disguised discrimination and nationalism. for this reason we voted against the resolution and the amendments to it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. we're against the idea of catching fish that never got to play. for this reason, we have opposed the european commission's proposal to reduce the size of cod in the baltic sea from 38 to 35 centimetres. we believe that the european commission should come back with a new proposal as soon as possible, which should include the recently negotiated baltic sea landing obligation plan, taking into account the major evaluation of the actual condition of cod in the baltic sea planned for spring 2015.
in writing. we are opposed to the fishing of fish that have never had a chance to play. for this reason, we have opposed the european commission's proposal to reduce the size of cod in the baltic sea from 38 to 35 centimetres. we believe that the european commission should come back with a new proposal as soon as possible, which should include the recently negotiated baltic sea landing obligation plan, taking into account the major evaluation of the actual condition of cod in the baltic sea planned for spring 2015.
in writing. we're against the idea of catching fish that never got to play. for this reason, we have opposed the european commission's proposal to reduce the size of cod in the baltic sea from 38 to 35 centimetres. we believe that the european commission should come back with a new proposal as soon as possible, which should include the recently negotiated baltic sea landing obligation plan, taking into account the major evaluation of the actual condition of cod in the baltic sea planned for spring 2015.
today, the european parliament voted on a joint resolution on the recognition of palestine as a state. i voted against the resolution and supported the epp resolution which was much more balanced than the joint text adopted by a majority of members. there are several reasons why i voted against the joint resolution. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state as a principled step in the right direction, although some parts of the resolution are not in line with my views. recognition of the palestinian state, its people and its borders, and the end of the occupation is a long-overdue international obligation and a positive step towards peace. member states must now formally recognise and thus protect the space of the palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as the capital. palestinian recognition is established in un resolutions and a number of national parliaments of eu member states have called on their respective governments to recognise this. the palestinian people’s right to self-determination has been enshrined in international resolutions for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action which may undermine the viability and the prospects of the two-state solution.
in writing. - we have long been convinced supporters of a two-state solution where israel and a future palestinian state can live side by side in peace and security. such a lasting peace can only be achieved through negotiations between the parties and must be based on mutual recognition and respect for the agreements reached. this resolution adds nothing of value that could help to move these discussions forward because it is deliberately worded in a way that allows everyone to interpret the text in their own way. the only real result of this resolution is that we are adding to an already complicated situation a further ambiguity as to whether or not the european parliament has now recognised a palestinian state. for that reason, we cannot support the resolution.
in writing. - we have long been convinced supporters of a two-state solution where israel and a future palestinian state can live side by side in peace and security. such a lasting peace can only be achieved through negotiations between the parties and must be based on mutual recognition and respect for the agreements reached. this resolution adds nothing of value that could help to move these discussions forward because it is deliberately worded in a way that allows everyone to interpret the text in their own way. the only real result of this resolution is that we are adding to an already complicated situation a further ambiguity as to whether or not the european parliament has now recognised a palestinian state. for that reason, we cannot support the resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. - the eu needs a modern industrial policy, comprising measures to promote and provide incentives for a sustainable and competitive industry of the future. the eu is the second largest steel producer in the world and of course the steel industry is an important part of the eu's industrial base. however, we believe that the way to ensure that the european steel industry remains competitive in a global context is through investments in, for example, research and innovation, simplification of regulations, incentives to switch to cleaner technologies and energy efficiency - not through protectionism and state aid.
in writing. - i fully support the main conclusion of the resolution to task the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs with conducting an assessment of the current policies of asylum and migration, including additional resources to perform this task. however, i abstained in the final vote because the text also calls for swift processing in collaboration with third countries of transit and origin and of return for those who do not qualify for asylum and protection in the eu. this effectively means that decisions of asylum claims are prejudiced, thereby seriously undermining the whole asylum system. processing of any claim for asylum should never be done in collaboration with the country of origin.
mr president, i would like to thank you. "terrible" is the word that best captures the brutal, inhumane torture methods the cia uses on prisoners of war. "absurd" is the word that best captures the way the lying cia directors dismiss the accusations. what has been discovered is a reminder of the impunity that exists for the many horrific human rights violations that the united states justifies in the name of national security. but as so many times before when the effects of torture have been investigated, the method has been shown to be pointless. but regardless of the security of the realm or the results achieved, i say it once again: torture is not acceptable under any circumstances, and the international prohibition of torture is absolute. it's true of everyone, everywhere. the report states that eu countries such as sweden, the uk, italy and romania have cooperated with the cia by handing over people to the us intelligence service without guarantees that they will not be tortured. and these countries, including sometimes my own home country of sweden, have let the cia fly people out in disgusting and degrading conditions. the time for denial must be over. the truth can set us free, and the truth must be told. impunity must end, the perpetrators must be held to account, the victims must be compensated and accountability demanded. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – i will be happy to answer. the brutality of the methods used and how they have been justified is simply unacceptable and the european member states must all come together to disclose the truth: what happened in your country as well as in my country. this is the truth and we need to see it now. it is time for impunity to come to an end, even in europe.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. turkey is trampling on freedom of expression again. journalists are arrested and the media are constantly subjected to pressure and censorship. no country has been convicted more often in the european court of justice for violations of freedom of expression than turkey. it is a clear repressive policy, but it is wrapped up in beautiful cover and ringing words. despite pressure from the eu, turkey has not changed its mind, and i welcome the commission's protest against these systematic crimes against its citizens. some past events worth mentioning are the newspaper azadiya welat which has been closed down 8 times. former editor-in-chief of the newspaper vedat kurşun is serving a 166-year prison sentence and 9 journalists from the same newspaper are in prison. a few years ago, the reporter ersin çelik was sentenced to 6 years in prison, and at the same time, the journalist metin alataş from the aforementioned azadiya welat was found hanging from a tree. the eu is also pouring money into this kind of scandalous democracy. in 2013, over eur 900 million from the eu budget went to turkey. money that turkey received in return for a promise to improve, among other things, its broken rule of law, its non-existent freedom of expression and its rampant corruption. wasn't that money spent? it's clear to me: turkey will probably never be able to meet the copenhagen criteria.
mr president, first of all let me say that it is very simple: the turkish government must release all journalists and stop fighting free media. this is relevant regardless of what we say about turkey’s future in europe. this is about turkey being a member of the council of europe, but it is also about the requirement that all states in the world must respect free media, democracy and the rule of law. secondly, i think we need to do what we can in order to support developments which would turn turkey into a modern society with rule of law, an open society and a democracy with equal rights for men and women. it is that turkey of the future that we can discuss becoming a member of the european union. it has never been a point of discussion that the turkey of today should be a member. but for different reasons – maybe because some europeans have tried to close the door and maybe because some turkish politicians want to close the door – the problem is that mr erdoğan is moving his country in the wrong direction. not only away from possible membership but also away from being a solid, respectable open society. we need to call for a change in turkey. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – of course the issue about the divide in cyprus must be solved. that is part of what was happening in the negotiations and political agreements making it possible for turkey to have a european perspective and become a member. but let us also see the fact that the turkey that is orienting itself towards europe and doing the right things will also do the right thing regarding cyprus. a turkey that is turning away to russia or whatever will not do it. so i think we have a common interest in doing what we can in order to support a decent and good development in turkey, because that is good for europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in recent years, the georgian parliament has taken a position on a large number of proposals for new legislation and reforms to allow for deeper cooperation with the eu. the decision to approve the eu-georgia association agreement is the result of this endeavour and a historic step on georgia's road to freedom. georgia has chosen the european path. georgia has chosen this path despite russian threats, despite pressure. russia recognizes the importance of this agreement, and so does ukraine. earlier this year, ukrainian president petro poroshenko called the approval of his country's association agreement the most important moment in ukraine's history since the fall of the soviet union. the association agreement is a crucial issue for georgia's future. it is a crucial crossroads: should georgia be allowed to join the eu or should the georgian people be ruled by the men of power in moscow? we who vote for the association agreement are on the right side of history. those who choose to vote no are consciously choosing the path of vladimir putin. when the european parliament voted on the association agreement with ukraine, the efdd group, including its representative from my country sweden, chose to vote with putin. i think there are many of us in this chamber who are wondering what will happen this time? will the efdd group, or parts of it, continue to vote for putin or will it vote for georgia's right to shape its own future?
mr president, this is, as a lot of speakers before have told us, an historic step. it means that we are extending opportunities and a stable framework to the people in georgia and we are doing it to a country that is under an ongoing russian threat, with soldiers occupying parts of georgia. we will, of course, see renewed pressure after this, and it is important to state and clarify that any aggression towards georgia from russia is just as unacceptable as the moves we see from russia towards ukraine today. it is important also to see that this is an opportunity that must be used by georgia and the georgian government. it opens up free trade, investment and cooperation on a number of other levels and dimensions. this means that the georgian government must reform and proceed with the reforms in georgia. it means that the selective justice we see the georgian government using against its opposition today is not acceptable. at the same time as georgia is now moving closer to europe the georgian government must ensure that its society is moving closer to european democracy. it is about strengthening the citizens of georgia but also about utilising and benefiting from all the opportunities that this agreement offers. it is historic, but it is a challenge to the georgian government to stop selective justice, and it is important to say to russia: ʽstay out of georgiaʼ.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. more migrants than ever are coming to europe for the chance to make a life for themselves, simply. many are fleeing war and persecution, and because there are no legal and safe ways to get to europe to seek asylum here, most have no choice but to become dependent on utterly ruthless human traffickers to get on a boat and make a life-threatening journey to one of our countries. this year alone, 3,419 lives have been lost in the mediterranean, according to a unhcr report last week. the mediterranean is becoming a sea of death, a vast graveyard of nameless people united by only one thing: to save their own lives and the lives of their children and to seek a life of peace and freedom. now the presidency has initiated the khartoum process a cooperation between the eu and a number of regimes in the horn of africa, with the aim of preventing asylum seekers from going to countries like libya to make these dangerous journeys from there. political initiatives are needed, and i welcome this, of course, but no country can do this on its own, and i think it should never be imagined that regimes in the horn of africa that oppress and harm their people so badly that they have to flee will cooperate with the eu on this. i am mentioning sudan, somalia and the absolute dictatorship of eritrea, where the only prisoner of conscience in the eu, dawit isaak, is in prison today after more than 4000 days in prison without trial. are these the countries we're going to be working with? i question it, and i do it forcefully. i think we should look at this and the commission should define its own role in this better. the challenges are great, but we must never rely on dictatorships to find solutions to our migration problems. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – your question is extremely important. what we need to do at this point is say that we will never accept dictators setting the rules for us as european free democracies, as the european union. we must keep in mind that it is, for example, one of our citizens, dawit isaak, who has been kept in prison for more than 4 000 days in eritrea, which is one of the harshest dictatorships in the world. are these the people that we are going to collaborate with? should we trust them to save human beings’ lives? let me tell you that frankly i doubt it. it is our responsibility, and we can never shrug it off on to those regimes in the countries in the khartoum process. i welcome the initiative, but i deem it to be a failure from the beginning, because we cannot speak with double tongues; we need to speak with one clear voice on freedom of speech, human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, the eu has spent resources building fortress europe stone by stone, and now we are going to spend resources building a moat as well. this is completely unacceptable. moreover, aid money is to be used for this, and i would call that nothing but a waste. the overall objective is to control refugee flows, to return refugees and to condition cooperation. what if the starting point had been something else entirely, namely to increase the survival rate of all those people who are trying to escape from war and conflict? the initiative would have looked very different then. i am actually tired of my colleagues like frank engel and others in the right-wing groups who always, when it suits them, have another objective which is superior to human rights and the right to seek asylum. it may be that you want free trade, it may be that you want to control the flow of refugees, and then you can even deal with dictatorships about it. no, now is the time, not one more initiative that doesn't put people's right to seek asylum first.
in writing. i have voted against granting gsp+ status to the philippines. the trade agreement requires respect for human rights. on 4 december this year, amnesty international released the report above the law: torture in the philippines, which highlights a culture of impunity that allows the police in the philippines to continue torture unhindered. amnesty has launched a major campaign in the country to stop torture. in other words, it is clear that the philippines does not respect human rights. the eu must take a consistent line on these issues. in addition, the agreement includes a fisheries policy which involves a significant overexploitation of philippine fishing waters, as they do not comply with international regulations in this area. parties to trade agreements must respect their commitments both in terms of human rights and a sustainable and consistent fisheries policy.
in writing. i voted yes to the deal. i would like to stress, however, that the people of georgia should have had the final say on this important issue. the best form of a popular decision on crucial issues is a referendum; then the economic and social consequences of the agreement could also have been discussed in depth, as well as the consequences for relations with russia.
